ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Continue the debate and vote on the motion of censure against the government submitted by the Chief of Police Representation and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis and seventy-fifth Members of the Group of Parliament pursuant to Rules 84 of the Constitution and 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. We are entering the list of speakers. Let me inform you that after the first three speakers, and after I read the first eight, I will tell you about the overall procedure, so that it is also known in the Chamber and in the parliamentary groups and in public how it will go all day long, so that we know the framework within which we will all operate today. The first speaker for today will be Mr Apostolos Vésiropoulos. The following are Mr. Vroutsis, Mrs. Aylonitou, Mr. Kiilias, Mrs. Stavoulis, Mr. Constantinople, Mrs. Stamatakis, and Mr. Karasmanis. I would ask you to keep the time. Here, Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, to date, the choices made by Mr Tsipras' government have cost the citizens and the economy a heavy burden. Since Sunday, however, when these choices will have huge costs for our national issues, we are now in another dimension, marginal and critical. The motion of censure submitted by the New Democracy, using Article 84 of the Constitution, calls on all Members to take a stand and the vote of the MPs on Saturday night only makes sense if they agree with Mr Tsipras' decision to commit by signing an entire country, to assign its historic identity and open up the corporations of alphabeticalism and border change. That's the risk. The New Democracy has postponed this initiative, in order for the agreement to come to Parliament, to be discussed in the House, not only for everyone to take a stand, but also for them to take their responsibilities. Because if New Democracy hadn't made this move, Mr. Tsipras had planned to sign for himself and commit the country without coming to the House. If it were in the hands of Mr Tsipras, he would have banned the syllables, the free expression of citizens. You see for him - within introductorys - "problem" Prime Minister, who is now avoiding citizens and moving in a protected and sterile environment, the free expression of citizens is only desirable when he is concerned. When it does not interest him, the citizens who express their concern and their patriotic feeling at the rally are a mob. And, of course, Mr Tsipras finds no reason for a referendum, since the result of such a referendum would be overwhelming at his expense. Apparently, however, he had reason to make the unfamiliar memory referendum three years ago, which led to the dissolution of the banking system, the capital control that still exists, measures of EUR 14.5 billion and the most painful memorandum. It is characteristic, and here we ask for an official confirmation or denial from the Greek Government, that Mr Tsipras and Mr Kotzias are planning to sign the agreement on the territory of Skopje to avoid the anger and protest of Greek citizens. On the other hand, the government keeps the place and time of signing the agreement. This alone demonstrates the behaviour of a person hiding because he's afraid. How long do you think you'll still be hiding? I wonder how Macedonian colleagues of the government majority can see citizens in their eyes the next day of signing such an agreement. It is clear that Mr Kotzias, having neglected the experienced diplomatic servants of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and with the arrogance that characterizes him, has not realised the dangers of this agreement. I personally express strong doubts and reservations as to whether this agreement was checked by lawyers with knowledge of international law and also by officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is undeniable what Mr Kotzias said about letting the Skopje decide the name themselves. With all that we hear, we will begin to doubt whether there was Greek participation in the text of the agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, the erga omnes simply does not exist. In the final text of the agreement, which was given to the parties in this House, there is no name agreed on the state of Skopje, Severna Macedonija, as Mr Tsipras said until yesterday. This is the credibility of the Prime Minister. They are of little interest to Mr. Tsipras, but also to the small group of ethnicists who have taken over the chair of power and believe that it can impose its will and its minority opinions on all Greeks, because all Greeks are right now. For the first time, as much as you lie with your signature you will recognize Macedonian ethnicity and Macedonian language, i.e. the epitome of alutism. The lack of historical knowledge and national consciousness of those who have negotiated prevents them from realising that this recognition beyond being an unauthorised retreat does not have any historical and real background. Basically, with the recognition of Macedonian ethnicity, you are entitled to Macedonia's Macedonian, the abrasive idea of Macedonia's Iliden. On a practical level, what does that mean? It means, ladies and gentlemen, that once you recognize the Macedonian ethnicity, the name you have granted as northern Macedonia is canceled, because quite simply the citizens of Skopje will be identified as Macedonians. This is the agreement that Mr. Tsipras is proud of, without worrying about whether and how proud Greek citizens are with what he is trying to impose on them. Apart from the educational deficit, however, and the national consciousness deficit, there is also the irresponsibility that characterizes the government. Article 13 of the Agreement actually says that because the state of Skopje is a enclosed state, in that it does not have access to the sea, it can claim access to the sea - originally supposed for fishing purposes - but also to other purposes that may arise in the future. And what's access? The Aegean. Then Macedonia turns out to be the Aegean and perhaps Thrace, as long as this government remains in power. You agree with Article 7 that each country will interpret the term "Macedonia" and "Macedonian" at will. This just cancels the triumphs of the government's party that with this agreement they are taking Macedonia back and its history. When each country, and in this case the state of Skopje, can interpret Macedonia's history as it thinks, with Article 7, one realizes that government triumphs are out of place and time. You also tell us that we have to celebrate because the Skopje will recognize that they have nothing to do with ancient Greece, as if even when they claimed it, they could convince anyone. In fact, the Skopje account all these years was that the Macedonians had nothing to do with ancient Greece. And this record is now coming from the Government of Mr Tsipras and justifies it, because that is, in fact, Article 7. With Article 8, Mr. Tsipras accepts that Greece's school books contain alpha-corrosive references and defamate history, because Article 8(5) states that an Interdisciplinary Committee will be set up to examine how the history of the two countries can be taught in order to remove asymmetric references. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] All this will be voted on, ladies and gentlemen, by those who are voting against the motion of censure and in favour of the government. The moments are critical. The consequences of an economic crisis can be alleviated. The consequences of a national defeat, however, are neither tackled nor mitigated. Mr. Tsipras has become dangerous to the country and the nation. Knowing that the vast majority of citizens are against him, it despises every democratic way out and procedure. He is capable of everything, even to bring about a national defeat of a huge size. Those who support his choices, those who do not prevent the signing of this agreement will be co-responsible and accountable to the people and history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Besiropoulos. You've been impeccable with time. Please, Mr Brutsi has the floor. From now on, everyone must be impeccable, because some of the last Members will not talk. It would be nice if we could talk to everyone we can talk to today. Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we all understand the criticality of the moments. Today we are in the process of developing a process at the end of which will be crucial national issues. All the MPs of an incomprehensible party will be in our vote at night, with the history and personal political responsibilities each has. This evening no one will be able to hide. I am referring specifically to the ANEL Parliamentary Group, who, once again with a two-faced tactic, as they have done repeatedly throughout the past period, are trying to alter the message, to rebuild the citizens and say: 'We are against the agreement'. I would like to open up a parenthesis here. This morning I heard an MEP at SKAI and am shocked at the passion and intensity of his arguments against the agreement, against his government partner, but on the other hand they say they will vote. Why is that? They think they can get away? The story is recorded. And as a Cycladic and as an Egyptian I remember strongly in my mind - I will not refer to the 2014 election campaigns and the promises of SYRIZA and ANEL about the famous VAT, which you delivered in gift packet - post-elections, government ministers, Mr. Kammenos outside Maximos, who cried, saying that it is impossible to transfer the Aegean VAT and the next day it went and voted for this great national acquisition of VAT for the islands of Egypt. The same goes for Mr Kammenos and his parliamentary group today. I think, however, that the citizens have now understood. Mr. Kammenos can't be ridiculed again, nor can Mr. Kammenos's MPs. They will be re-examined with their history and responsibilities. To make it clear this evening, those who vote against the proposal for distrust of the New Democracy authorize Mr Tsipras and Mr Kotzias to go to the Prespes to sign, give the ink to Mr Kotzia and Mr Tsipras to sign this harmful national agreement. That is the risk of today's debate. There's a lot more to be said. The New Democracy has done its national and democratic duty in the best possible way. These instruments give it the framework of the democratic process resulting from the Rules of Procedure of the House, to exercise a motion of censure. And you saw how responsible we managed it. And we have now done so on a crucial national issue. Many times in discussions with Greek citizens too many who voted SYRIZA on January 25, 2015, tell me "maybe there was the time button", so they would turn the time back shortly before they voted on the poll in January 2015. Because what happened to Greek citizens and our country since 2015 is things that brought the country back, they were lost opportunities, they had an economic price, they had a price for people who lived with a little pension - the abolition of the CSR, the VAT of the Aegean -, they had issues that had to do with overtaxation and they have to do with what we heard yesterday from the President of the ESM, Mr Regling, that surveillance in the country will be until 2059. Also, it is about the concession of the national property that will be by 2115. All this would have been avoided, but in any case it was reversible. But the issues of national sovereignty are irreversible and these are what we are discussing today. Because the 'agreement' that SYRIZA has done is a process that has followed, which contains the elements of SYRIZA's behaviour and perception, that is, arrogance, contempt, contempt for the institutions, a concept that has to do with what SYRIZA has shown up to now about how he understands the issues of national responsibility, but also all the issues of the negotiations he has done. And note: This agreement that was created and is coming today to be discussed, because it is provoked by the New Democracy in the form of the motion for distrust, it contains at the end of the day a nationally detrimental development that has to do with the transfer of Macedonian identity and the concession of Macedonian language to Skopje. Really, you gentlemen of SYRIZA, how will you vote for this and by what procedure has that been agreed? The New Democracy has shown the way, and not only has New Democracy, our political system matured after 1974 and has shown that to the highest national issues we can permanently, coordinatedly, consensually, build a national front, as took place in Bucharest in 2008 with the famous and proud veto that Greek democracy exercised, but the political system then united. What did Mr. Tsipras do? What did Mr. Kotzias do? Who asked? Who was this Member of Parliament aware of this agreement? Has Mr. Tsipras called, as he had to, the political leaders to shape this national front? Did he ask the President of the Republic to convene the Political Heads of State to build a national front, to discuss the agreement, to see the weak points? And it is certain - and let us keep this - that the New Democracy - we have said so, says Mr Mitsotakis - wants an agreement. He wants a deal, but not this harmful deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u5	Please close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u6	Yes, Mr President, that's what I'm closing down with. To keep in mind that if the Bucharest line had been held, in the sense of national understanding, today the agreement that would have existed would have neither the concession of Macedonia's identity nor the concession of Macedonia's language. It would be a better deal that would benefit the country and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u7	Thank you. Mrs Eleni Aylonitos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u8	The overall programme when will you say so, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u9	Slowly. Do you have anxieties about the present? The absentees and absentees were anxious. Here, Mrs. Alonitou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, so far many opinions have been heard in this Chamber on the forthcoming agreement with Skopje on the name of the neighbouring country. But allow me to have a different approach, to refer to some documentary, some of which you know, but you go beyond them. They are, however, completely enlightening about the historical path of a case that has shaken the country for 26 years. So I read from the Minutes of Parliament in 1993. Stepma is the late Constantine Mitsotakis: "I have followed the debate and I have to tell you with all honesty that I am not satisfied with what I have heard. I have heard Mr Samara's long-standing apology and I would like to say that if we look back at the past, a critical turning point on the Skopje issue was 16 December 1991. Greece could not stop the recognition of Croatia and Slovenia at that time. However, it could undoubtedly achieve a complete solution to the Skopje problem at the time. We couldn't find a better time. There was the decision of the Ministerial Council which gave instructions to the Foreign Minister and before he started from the United States that we were together to go to Brussels, I said to him: 'To oppose Germany. If, however, you cannot give way, you must insist on the non-dissolution of Yugoslavia. Now look at Germany's need, you can achieve full satisfaction with the Greek positions on the Skopje issue." And Mr. Samaras didn't make it. I don't blame him because he didn't. He was a young man. He was weak. But did it have to go from there and go where it went? And I'll say another thing. It is not surprising why it did not give that battle, because on 2 December 1991 the Council of Foreign Ministers itself accepted in the debate on the regulation that this democracy should be mentioned under the name of Macedonia and simply made a reservation, but that it had agreed to enter the text as the Republic of Macedonia.' The former Minister, Antonis Samaras, who not only was a Macedonian but also dropped the Mitsotakis government on the grounds that it was retreat to the issue of Skopje, opened the way without return and with many adventures. On January 17, 1993, Kyriakos Mitsotakis interviews journalist Stefano Kasimatis for the magazine "E" of Sunday Freedom. In the journalist's question about how he judges the exacerbation of nationalism or, against other things, patriotism around Macedonian, Kyriakos Mitsotakis answers: "My impression - and I say it with a heavy heart - is that Macedonian cannot be the first theme of our foreign policy. The Macedonian is important not in itself, but in its symbolicity. I cannot see the Republic of Skopje being an essential geopolitical risk to Greece." In a next question from the journalist about the role played by the public opinion in shaping this policy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis answers: "The existence of a power of nationalism is restrictive for a government. This is because he knows that any result that is different from what the public expects, will not be accepted. This is problematic, because Greece is entering into negotiations with an absolute position. This position can now be accepted by the community. But people have to understand that it cannot be accepted without cost. We are now distracting something that may be less important in future than something else that will not be given to us at that time." Twenty-five years after the position of the Chief of the Party of New Democracy, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis invests in this nationalism that he once condemned and which seems to be a chariot for power. As in other areas of policy that he manages, renounces and destroys the moderate and centre-right tradition created by his predecessors and relatives yet. What if his sister, the Foreign Minister, fought at the Karamanlis government, was to collect her father's uncompromising debt? In its efforts to improve the final proposal of Mrs Molyviati's predecessor, namely "Macedonia - Skopje", expressed as the country's final proposal on 27 October 2005, Mrs Bakoyannis informed the American Ambassador on 4 December 2007 that the Government of Karamanlis has taken a bold political decision to support a complex name that included the word Macedonia and won Parliament's agreement. While meeting with the same ambassador on March 3, 2008, she said that Greece could accept Upper Macedonia or New Macedonia. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In fact, as Minister, a group of bloggers had at that time accepted in her office at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs where she answered the issue: "New Macedonia is a partial geographical definition in the sense that the old were the whole and the new is a piece". Ladies and gentlemen, today in this Chamber we are not considering New Democracy's proposal of distrust to the Government of Tsipras - Kammenos. Today we are living and sympathizing with a family drama which, unfortunately, is afflicting the country over time. We are living the drama of the Mitsotakis family in the war with the Macedonian Antonis Samaras, who does not hesitate not only to bring Kyriakos Mitsotakis face to face with the legacy of his father and the efforts of his sister Doras Bakoyannis for a complex name, but also to lead the Chief of Officerial Anti-Population to institutional posts, asking the President of the Republic to violate the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Alonitou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u12	Just a minute, Mr. President. Good endings in the New Democracy family and party. As for the Greek people, he can look at the future with optimism. With the current government, the country ends with the memorials, moves along the road to development and opens roads to the Balkans to play its part, leaving nationalism and devastatement to make progress, co-operation and co-development.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Alonitou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u15	Mrs Stavoulis has the floor, and since then Minister Stathakis will speak, then, to keep the foundation, he will be Mr Kikilias. It was vice versa, so I'm telling you, to be a member of the Officerial Representation after the Minister. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament is calling for the Qualified Opposition to vote in favour of the motion of censure against the SYRIZA - ANEL Government in order to slash the pen from the hands of those who go to sign the agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. The fact that if the motion for distrust is voted for at the same time falls the pen and the hands of those who will close the last assessment and agree to regulate the debt, those who will continue to reduce unemployment by increasing full-time jobs and by ensuring that workers can negotiate and gain a significant increase in the lower wage, those who will open up new jobs in nursery stations, continue to operate Community centres and integration programmes, those who will organise primary health care and continue to support the ESS, those who will reorganise productive processes and cooperative structures in the countryside, those who will continue to support healthy entrepreneurship along with the social and solidarity economy and with a view to fair growth, does not detract from the extraterritorial ones. On the contrary, the possibility that the pens will not fall off the hands of those who will send to the prosecutor the cases investigated in this House, rather scares them more than all the glories. Why, really, should the pen fall out of the hands of those who sign the agreement, which ensures that the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, for international organisations and for us, was renamed for more than a hundred forty countries to be renamed to the Republic of Northern Macedonia against all? Those who oppose the agreement because Macedonia is one, our own, forget that in modern diplomacy and international law, from the 19th century, no one with the term Macedonia refers either to the kingdom of Philip and Alexander around Aliakmon and the deserve, nor to the Byzantine theme from Adrianoupolis to Durres, but, as identified at the Berlin Conference in 1878, to the very specificly defined administrative part of the Ottoman Empire, which was made up of the three regions of Thessaloniki, Monastery and Kosovo. This piece of land was shared in 1913 with the Bucharest Treaty at the end of the Balkan Wars, Greece taking most of it, Serbia and Bulgaria smaller and 1% of Albania, which we can only know after measuring a well-defined area, through the middle of the 20th century and not by the stepmakers of the Greater Sea, as was written on the Internet by imaginative semitrailers. For Greek Macedonia, Bulgarian Macedonia and Serbian Macedonia, school geography were speaking in Greece in the 1950s and 60s, obviously because this terminology did not affect patriotism anyone, while the term “Federal Socialist Republic”, for example, touched the anti-communism of many. Northern Macedonia, therefore, agree that the two governments should call the neighbouring country a geographical definition that distinguishes it from our own, Greek Macedonia, as not only North from South Korea, but also Karinthia from Upper Karinthia, South Tyrolo from West and East Tyrolo and Mongolia from internal Mongolia. And because this country, like any country, has citizens of no buters or amnesiacs, the two governments agree that nationality - citizenship has meant the same for many years, the same means citizenship, only nationals have kings and the language of these citizens will have a name that corresponds to the name of their country and will not be confused with our country and our history. And since we are talking about history, is there any objection that it should be taught in both countries with the same respect for the truth? Or is anyone ignoring that the committees for the development of school books of common acceptance with other countries have been made in our country and elsewhere on the basis of either discreet agreements or directives from international organizations? As for the view that, in a negotiation, once a well-meant interlocutor has been found, our demands have to go up - it has been heard - I do not know if Machiavelli's spirit is proud of his ancestors or is ashamed of bad imitations. This is therefore a good agreement based on mutual respect for the rights of the two peoples and from which the two countries are won, while the economic activities of northern Greece are considerably facilitated. That is why he is praised by the world's most serious analysts. With regard to the anti-imperialist objection to the side benefits NATO will gain from the agreement, look, and the Navy battle took place by three imperialist forces of the time, because they were useful for a protectorate, through which they would penetrate the Eastern Mediterranean and the Ottoman Empire in general. I do not believe that any Member of Parliament should have argued that the battle should not have taken place, the Greek revolution should not have been supported in this way and the first, even weak and dependent, should not have been established. And he doesn't need to have to have dispersed Marxism - Leninism, to understand that. He needs a common mind. So any intelligent Member of Parliament who is taking part in the vote this evening understands that none of the reasons for the Civic Opposition in its own motion of censure is true. It remains for each and every one to do what they see, by voting against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much Mrs Stavoulis. I call Minister Stathakis in Step for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the status of the modern world is the national state. Since 1789, the only universal form in which we exist in the modern world has been the national state. So on the day after the French Revolution, the model state was built, France, and that is what everyone has been following around the world, and that is the risk of today's debate. Let me say that the way in which the national states are manufactured is identical. To build a nation state, you want philosophers, historians, warriors and diplomats. Philologists, first of all. We are the example. In 1824, a Greek in Amsterdam, in the midst of the Greek revolution, considers that we need to create a new Greek language, Adamantios Korais, because without the new Greek language we will not be able to get rid of the Ottoman Empire and become social societies of the ideas of the French Revolution. He is making an urgent language, with editorial, grammar and vocabulary. At the same time, four years later, two Bulgarian philologists, who speak unfamiliarly Greek, one from Smyrna and the other in Sofia, write in Greek about how the new Bulgarian language will be. The Bulgarian language is the oldest Slavic language, as you know, and they say to have up to thirty-two letters the alphabet, not twenty-eight, and Korai said this rule to incorporate it or not. And Bulgarian language was made. In 1850 the Serbs and Croatian Philologists and writers met in Vienna and politically, because they want the two countries to unite, build a new language, Serbs. Whole language, written with two different alphabets. The Croatians and the Serbs are Latin. The same language, the one they speak today in Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia and Montenegro. So the tongue has a weight. And in the language issue that is so stressed by New Democracy - and Mr Hatzidakis did one thing - there was one topic. Bulgarian language we have, Serbians of course, Albanians, which are historical, Romanians with Latin alphabet, because they consider themselves ancient Romans. There was a matter. Is that the language that Slavomacedon speaks to be Bulgarian or is it a Slavomacedonian idiom? A hundred and fifty years Greece's permanent position is that it is not Bulgarian and it is Macedonian language. Why? Because anything else was considered to be an extension. So it's the tongue. So one thing is that. This being said, because of our standing position, the Macedonian language has never been negotiated by Greece, because for a hundred and fifty years we have argued that it is a special language. Historically we need to build a state. For, in order to build a state and claim it, you must make a historical account: the continuity of the Greek nation from the ancient times to the present day, Paparigopoulos etc. All our neighbors have made accounts. The neighbors we're talking about were overreacting. While they came in the eighth century, they built a historical account that takes us to Vouchala and Alexander the Great. Rightly, then, Greece says "children, okay, accept that all the historical narratives have problems, but you overdo it." There's no such thing as that. Historians go too. The third thing you need is a border. Where am I going to take the line of the national state? It was usually solved by war. But before the war, everyone made big maps. Great Bulgaria, Great Albania, Great Greece, Great Serbia with something above. Cia Anagnostopoulos, however, said something very serious: "These have been solved, with wars, with diplomacy, with etc., under international conditions and anyone who raises the subject of revision is out of place and time. But it is important for the borders, because it is not just to demarcate the borders. It is to say if I have minorities outside the border. Aluterism, I mean. That is why the Greek position was right that, to recognize you, we do not want any parafiscal references to minorities outside your borders. I've been recapitulating so far. Language, historical account, border and the existence of minorities. Greece, after Yugoslavia, the Soviet Union - I repeat, everything has been dissolved, only the national state, two hundred states are the world - has rightly raised three topics: First of all, history. The account must have limits. It can't affect ancient Greek history. Secondly, it cannot be recognised that there are minorities outside your borders, which raises issues of altruism. That's a good position. So in your Constitution you have three controversial articles to discuss. And third theme, composite name. We cannot completely remove Macedonia. That's never been the position. To be a complex name by geographical identification. These were the permanent Greek positions. The New Democracy is wrong to say that there was language in the negotiating positions. There was never the language in the negotiating package, precisely because there was a silent acceptance and a permanent position of fifty years that the Macedonian language is present. And we don't want her to be a Bulgarian. And I'm surprised that Mr. Babiniotis, such a valid scientist, tells us what goes on: that he's a Bulgarian. Slavic language is obviously a south-eastern relation, as the history of the Balkan languages of Oxford says, more related to the Bulgarian. They're not labeled in any other way. In order to evade this well-known subject, Mr Hatzidakis told us to call it north-eastern. We are ending up with the language issue and we are entering the final part of the existence of national states. In order for there to be a nation state, the international community must recognise it: large powers, small powers, international organisations and international institutions. And say, "You exist." Here too, let me say that in the past twenty-five years with good Greek positions, I repeat, we have been negotiating this issue. And the question is: Why is it not resolved? My opinion is very simple. We had an opportunity when the two political leaders, Mitsotakis and Gligorov, were ready to discuss these three controversial issues and find a solution. Then the other side didn't make any retreat. I am quite alibi that Greece could not retreat. Because also on the subject of the historical account they filled statues and Bukefalls and on the subject of alutism they did not discuss changing their constitution and on the subject of the complex name was enough. What changed today? Two things have changed: Firstly, our neighbouring country has been relieved of this nationalist leadership. The nationalist leadership also had an alibi. He said: "It's okay, leave it unsolved. After the countries have recognized us internationally, they will be forced to retreat.' That was their strategy. And from five had reached a hundred forty - nine after twenty - five years. Today, the juncture has changed for two reasons: first, the political leadership has changed from there and it comes and says: "I am ready to discuss it, I do not want Vuphala, it is enough for me in the eighth century and then, I do not want to do it, I will change my constitution and I also take a complex name." If you were government, what would you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u19	Nationality and language.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u20	What would you do? Simple timing. What would you do? Would you kick the chance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u21	We said a hundred times what we'd do. Didn't you hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u22	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Is there any more calm and milder than the Minister? Alas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u23	Secondly, the European Union after the break-up of Yugoslavia and all adventures has been the last war since 1950 in Europe. He took all this down after 1992, etc. A single European Balkan area is being established today. The procedure is open. Let's turn the Balkans into a single European area.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u24	Minister, just a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u25	I'll be back in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u27	This is a challenge for us. A challenge for our country. It is a challenge to which we must respond. Only positively can we respond. All the arguments have been made, I think, economic, political, social: a single European area in the Balkans with free movement of people, goods, ideas and perceptions. We can only respond positively to these two challenges. All three issues forming the country's permanent diplomatic strategy have been resolved. We can't back off. We cannot add issues to the table that do not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Stathakis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, after taking part in the 'Summer Democracy Workshop' educational program organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students from the 15th and 60th High School of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please, Mr. Kikilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it was interesting to hear from you. I'll answer you at the end. Ladies and gentlemen, Ioannis Kapodistrias testifies that he once said: "The victory will be ours if he reigns only in our hearts the Greek." Unfortunately, you, the alliance of willingly, have already decided or are thinking of giving our neighbors such a bad deal. I would advise you to reflect on the above words of Kapodistria and that, because this agreement probably creates such data and featuring that very difficult in the future can be reversed or revoked. "The victory will be ours, if it reigns in our hearts only the feeling of the Greek." It is known that throughout our long conflict with the Skopje, our country has been pushed by the international player to grant to the northern neighbours names, symbols, identities, properties that have always been linked to the Greek nation. As is easily understood to any reasonable and experienced man, our interests are not often in line with those of the foreign factor, and this applies to all countries throughout the international relations. Everyone looks to serve their interests. You willingly and unscrupulously have decided to serve the interests of Macedonians and those who have common interests with them. Quite simply, while you suspect the scale of the damage you can cause in our country in the years that are going to come, you are, unfortunately, putting your stay in power and you do not have the slightest reluctance to present the good children - because that is what this is about - in the hope of supporting the international factor to remain in power. But considering what you have been doing and what you are giving the Skopje, I must admit that I did not feel surprised. It's hard to say, but it's the truth. You've said it before. But I am surprised by the part of the so-called patriotic PASOK - what irony nowadays! - who's joined the SYRIZA. You, ladies and gentlemen, pasophiles, how do you accept Macedonian identity and language when in the 1990s have you fought on the side of Andreas Papandreou just so that we do not retreat to them? As for you, ladies and gentlemen of the Independent Greeks, I would suggest that you rename your party if you continue to exist for long...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u30	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u31	You have no, gentlemen of the Independent Greeks, anything to do with independence or Hellenism. You're insurmountable, and Cavaphe would say. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to consider the burden of responsibility you intend to raise as persons and as Greek MPs. Let me remind you that your debt is towards your country rather than your Chief and before you vote in favour of the nationally harmful agreement brought by Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kotzias, remember the words of Yannis Ritsos: "This is where the people are kneeling, only in front of their dead." And the dead Greeks in the Macedonian soil look with anger. Minister, I have listened with interest - and this is what I am closing down - your analysis of language and not of the historical regression you have made. It was interesting. Historically he's not standing anywhere, but he was interested. I would like to say, however, that on the basis of a newspaper headline that I see today, she is being treated by the director of the Prime Minister's Legal Office - and perhaps you should discuss with her - as a member of the Supreme Court in 2009, Mrs Thanos, to have rejected them, as is the Marios Ice. The document of decision says that there is no Macedonian nation and language and some cultivate alutism with damaged elements. So I would first tell you to find a way with the Prime Minister's Legal Office, among you, with your partners, with your victories and your colleagues sitting in the same chairs as you, who a few years ago clearly talked about a state under his constitutional name, namely "Macedonia's Republic" for Skopje, and then come and make us here beyond preaching. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, please, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u34	What do you mean, Minister? There is no legal improvement in reproach. Here, you have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, I would not have taken the floor if the honourable Member's speech had not been followed by the heavy accusations made to the Greek Government, to the Members of SYRIZA and ANEL and to the others that we are serving the interests of the Skopje and the foreign.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u36	It's mutual, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u37	It is this particular place that throws water on the mill of what previously covered the country - that is, what Mrs Bakoyannis said yesterday - patriotocaustism and populism. For the second time, unfortunately, you are lifting up and strengthening the wave that currently covers, thankfully not the country, but the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Amanatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u40	Mr Kikilia, please clarify this because others say that it is a win-win agreement, others say it is, but otherwise it is. But to say that one is serving each other's interests, you realise that it is not right. You're experienced.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, you know very well that I am a moderate politician and I count my words. I wonder why the Minister is joining us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u42	You don't have to apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u43	I think that things are very clear: Macedonian identity and Macedonian language and therefore Macedonian ethnicity and northern Macedonia, so ethnicity belongs to them. So the "South Macedonia", which you go to say that there is and is in Greece, is reliant on "North Macedonia". So I say that it is a harmful agreement and this agreement is against the interests of the Greek people. It's so clean.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u44	This is a political point of view, it has been clarified and recorded. Thank you very much. Mr Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to everyone. I always listen carefully to the sympathetic and mild, as the President-in-Office, Minister Stathakis, said. Mr Stathakis, you have really raised a point of order and asked the New Democracy - with which you have the same views in general, I do not know why you disagree on a few things - if it were a government. And I ask you: in 2010 would you vote on the memorandum if you were government? You know, the juncture is a difficult thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u46	He would vote for it, but modified.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u47	Come on, ladies and gentlemen, don't ping the PASOK MPs among you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, we want an agreement. Our President and all of us spoke. There were preconditions. There was a good chance. We have, however, analysed very clearly what is wrong with the agreement and why we will not consent to the mistake, we will not consent to an agreement that is in the face of national interests. It's very clear why you're doing this. We, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA and of the New Democracy, who are asking others today if they serve the interests of the Skopje and some people were to say, when we voted on the memos, if we serve Merkel, it seems to me that you are alike. If you want national understanding, if you want to go forward, we can't work that way. We cannot go back to the squares of the 'indignant', which said 'the junta did not end in 1973'. Gentlemen, what New Democracy started is over. And you know what? I tell the government, I tell everyone, I say it to the Socialists in Europe: 'No' we do not do it 'yes'! And if you want to ask them, tell them, before they come to make recommendations to the Change Movement, to the Democratic Partnership, first make recommendations to their partners in Germany, who co-operate with Merkel. So now that you like to be applauded by Mrs Merkel, for the papers to talk about you, you know that the bill will come. And he'll be coming to the election soon. He didn't leave the patriotic PASOK, Mr. Kikilia, and he went to SYRIZA. You're making a big mistake. Patriot is the one who stays in the tough. He's a patriot who's not afraid to lose his place, even if he goes to 4%. The people who went to you or to SYRIZA are the PASOK of the chair. You should know that! The Greek people know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, please. He doesn't say that about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about citizens. This is about executives. And today we are here, after our historic decision not to support the wrong agreement, to send a message: Convert whatever agreement you want to vote for confidence. We are not going to support and support you. We also send a message to everyone: Our autonomous word and role does not stop you from giving a vote of confidence, but that the next day we will be the Progressive Order and we will not just be a "chants" next to any other Party. We tell you, to remember: As you all expected we would agree, to know the new 'pads', which prophesy for the next day new governments, that this will not happen with us. The autonomous role is for all of us, and above all for us. There have been many options in recent years. There was the choice to stay on your sideline to fight, to make mistakes, but not to betray even those few who supported you, those who came after a long time to say - like Mr. Juliarakis - that "we did what you did." I want to address our executives, all of us, and tell them there are many options. I'm glad Mr. Kouvelis is here. I always talk to myself, speak very clearly and publicly. One may disagree, but I always say my opinion. Mr. Kouvelis was a symbol of the Renewal Left. He was one of the people that his previous co-government suggested becoming President of the Republic. He chose to become Deputy Minister to the Government of SYRIZA - ANDEL of Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos. Citizens are judging by our example, with each other's example. I want you to know that our example is the Autonomous Progressive Order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs. Helen Stamatakis, come to Stepma. Then it's Mr. Karasmanis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like, on my part, to begin - not to forget this - to condemn the shameful arsonist statements, the inducement to divert the democratic culture, the extreme fascist speech, which was heard in Parliament by the Congressman of the Golden Dawn and the applause that followed by the other members of this neo-fascist organisation. I agree with the very correct decision taken following the initiative and suggestion of the President of the Parliament for their team dismissal from the parliamentary process. These extreme elements must henceforth be isolated from the majority of the parliamentary groups and we must not allow such extreme voices to be heard again in the temple of democracy, which is Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been three years since we received the country on the brink of collapse, with 25% of unemployment in the young and 40% in the young and a social state levelled, a country that was in a humanitarian crisis. The conditions were not easy, neither were decisions. We have been called upon to face a multiple crisis, economic, humanitarian and political. With hard work in these three years, we have restored the social state which the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK have broken up. We have put in place the law to deal with the humanitarian crisis. We've increased the cost of protecting the family. We streamlined the allowance performance and modernised the administration. We have ensured access to health care for all citizens. We have been called upon to manage a difficult situation with our northern borders closed down and a large number of refugees in our country. However, our country has been an example of solidarity for all of Europe. Our country played the role of guardian of the values of solidarity, peace and cooperation, when no other country has yet assumed its responsibilities in the refugee region. In these three years, we have caught the targets, and in fact in over-recruitment. And now we are finally ready to get out of the close committee and reach an agreement on the debt. It closed a great painful chapter and opened the way to the development and exit of the country from the long-term comitology. That's not what New Democracy likes. You do not like it, ladies and gentlemen, that we are ending in August with support programmes, memorandums and committees. The New Democracy hoped for a left parentheses. It has been three years and is still waiting for this parentheses to be closed and it will wait several more years. You requested and asked for elections again. You didn't come out. Today you can't figure out what to say to the opposition. You do not have the numbers, you do not like developments and you fall to the level of dangerous nationalism, a misdemeanor. Ladies and gentlemen, all these years we have made difficult decisions and supported them. It's time to confront ourselves with great time-consuming historical problems. Now is a historic opportunity and to resolve a problem that has been going on for too many years. I will not go into his background, we have already analysed it both by the ministers and by a number of colleagues. I will only say this, twenty-five years now, we are ostriching, twenty-five years now, the neighbouring country has been recognised by a hundred forty countries called 'Macedonia'. And only we call it 'Skopje' within and outside, we call it FYROM, this ambiguous former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. We smiled it, erasing the last letter, the "M", which meant "Macedonia". We were all asked, and in particular in international contacts, what we mean. The Minister said so very well the day before yesterday. All of us ask what we mean and in the end move the head wisely. ‘A, ‘Macedonia’. So the time has come to resolve this problem with tough negotiation, with hard work, with consultations, with drawbacks and regressions we have reached the end. Such a problem, ladies and gentlemen, is not solved with misgivings. Nationalism nourishes nationalism on the other hand, and the problem is perpetuated and solved. It needs cooperation and solidarity. Our country is a modern European country and is ready to overcome the problems of the past. She's about to step on new bases. The deal isn't bad. You, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, have made a record of evil, catastrophic, fearful. Both the Minister and the other colleagues have mentioned the historical elements and the points of negotiation, and what we have achieved and what we have forged for our historic and national symbols, which the governments of the New Democracy have not defended, have not shielded them, and have left them to be circus. Now that we keep it and get it back, you remembered it and you're passing on to us. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we should discuss ways in which our economy will develop, the new solid foundations on which we want to build, talk about convergences and consensus, seek ways of living smoothly and peacefully with our neighbours and there is nothing to divide us, rather than to devise betrayals, to prove that we are a state, a country guaranteeer of peace and stability in the Balkan region, a state safe with our history, our language, our symbols and that history we do not grant, we honour it, we honour it as we honour the history of the other peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mrs Stamatakis. I would ask my colleague, Mr Karasmanis, to come to Stepma. Then there is Mrs Triantafyllou, Mr Vardakis and Minister Ms Ahtsoglou. After the Minister, Mr. Plackotakis will speak from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the last 24 hours in the national Parliament but also throughout the country, the national inadmissible agreement with our northern neighbours announced by the Prime Minister, an agreement that has left Greeks in and out of the country, which attempts to solve the humiliating acceptance of the alleged Macedonian identity with the Slavic state, the unequivocal consent of a Greek government to the recognition of its alleged Macedonian as its official language and the outrageous formalisation of the identification of its inhabitants as Macedonian, an agreement which not only guarantees our national interests, but on the contrary deletes with a monocomb and with some vague, devastateding and no substantial undermining of all the Red Lines and goes on to the first time from the Greek Government of those who constitute and maintains decades of vague and unreasonable chain. Does it separate Greek mind that by this agreement Greeks dare and agree to be removed from our own territorial books of insulating texts at the expense of the Skopje? What are the so - called alpha - colored texts? What is it that we supposedly claim from the Skopje and have never been informed? So we're gonna erase the Macedonian heroes? What Greek and what of you of our people's representatives can ever accept such an anti-national agreement against our history, our country, Greekism? Who dares to sign the recognition of a northern Macedonia on our borders by deporting, forging or writing a millennium story, which, like the national authority Karamanlis, had said: "Macedonia is one and this is Greek". Please forgive me for being particularly sensitive, ladies and gentlemen, because I feel personally very concerned. I come from the birthplace of Alexander the Great. In Pella I was born, raised, manned, walking between martyr monuments a story that no one is entitled to or can neglect. As Minister in the morning, after I stepped my foot in the European fora in my twenty-eighth counterparts off the agenda, as well as the American Minister, I told them that I was from Pella, the homeland of Alexander the Great, the metropolitan city of Hellenism, and I presented all the evidence of her undeniable Greekity. But beyond the deeply hurt mind of our people, which escalates the reactions of indignation and anger, did the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs have or have any constitutional legitimacy to conclude and much more to sign a national critical agreement, which they have previously rejected and rejected in public its government partners? Where do they draw the authority to formalise it with an unexplained prelude, with fast track procedures and celebrities tomorrow in Prespes? Will the Greek Parliament give them the right to cut, sewage, adapt to their measures and their obsession with the government chairs of our country's Constitution? Some colleagues call on Kostas Karamanlis. They should know and keep in mind that if they vote 'no' in this proposal it is like canceling the veto in Bucharest in 2008. Ladies and gentlemen, you have voted for the third and fourth memorandum, you have promised the public property for a hundred years turning the country into a protectorate of creditors, you have cut pensions, wages, tax free, you have abolished the EKT, the refund of excise duty on oil, you have doubled, you have tripled tax and insurance rates and not only. You screwed up the farms. These can be corrected, restored in the course of time. What the Greek people will never forgive you is if by your vote today legalise this anti-national abstraction called an agreement and a solution. Ladies and gentlemen, please call on you to say 'yes' or 'no'. If you vote 'no' in the motion of censure it will clearly mean that you approve our invincible and dangerous national interests an agreement with the unrepentant state of the Slavs of our neighbours. If that happens, be careful, you will have created legal commitments and consequences for the country. You need to realize that there will be no return. And to tell you otherwise, we should rise a little above our micro-group interests, our micro-party perceptions, and you should realise that in politics there is no fascinating to be able to delete errors and responsibilities. So consider your national responsibility. From tomorrow you will have opened the end and wide for the Skopje the doors of the European Union and NATO and you will have consciously assigned the nationality of Macedonians to the Skopje and the identity of Macedonian in the Slavic language and their origin. A short psalm of each other. Today we will see, although who can or dare to play "no players" with the history of thousands of years and with our national status. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Maria Triantafellou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. In my opinion, it is certainly a spasmist move, a disrepute move or a motion of censure. You're trying to split the ANELs and the government to unite your party. Smartly enough, we, ladies and gentlemen, can say without spelling. You want to check - and this has been heard - the honesty of the ANELs. In other words, if ANELs are in line with their electoral and programming formalities. However, it is very important that a debate on unbelievers should be held. I'll start with Mr. Tasoula's speech that had an interest last night. What did he say? He said the Macedonian is part, indeed linked to the Eastern issue, to the Slavism Aluterisms, with the need for the Slavs to come out in the Aegean Sea, the role of Russia, etc. He talked about the years of the Cold War, the need to maintain good relations that Greece had during the Cold War with Yugoslavia as a counterweight to some extent to the problem of relations with Turkey and Cyprus, where all the attention of Greece was focused at that time. Of course, I must add the role of the United States which premiumed Titus, the Yugoslav Government, at that time, precisely because there was a conflict with the Soviet Union. He tried yesterday to explain the different circumstances during the Cold War that they justified - I will not say they were granting - which were tolerated the name Macedonia, because it was called the adjoining country 'Macedonia' as a federal state of Yugoslavia. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would be prepared to give us some information on this matter. Just reasonable things. They therefore tolerated the name "Macedonia" and included conditions with Yugoslavia and its federal states, such as the 1959 border agreement or the gentlemen's agreement, as it has been left in history, between Evangelos Averov and Costas Popovic, an agreement which was of course of economic, technical interest. However, it certainly expressed the converging expectations of both countries to avoid anything that would disturb the good diplomatic climate. And be careful, it is signed in 1962 when the relations between Greece and Yugoslavia have been disrupted at that time, precisely because of the Cuban issue. There was a cooling of the two. But for Greece it was not just that. It was decided - and notice this when we talk about information - over time the absence of any information or dialogue on what we call a Macedonian issue, for the federal state, for its name. You see, the 1959 border agreement had presided over the electoral price that the effort for the Greek-Yugoslavian approach had taken. And Evangelos Averov - he heard a lot these days, he would be heard by me once again - said that the reactions caused by the touching side of the Macedonian still create very hard political elements. And I'm explaining. There was silence even by the rulers themselves. I don't mean the special services or the State Department didn't know. But it doesn't mean there was inertial. And indeed, it was heard that a series of deeds were made when they needed. For many years until the 1990s, therefore, there has been a discrepancy and because of the cost. In the 1990s, what a number of colleagues have said here, what we call 'Folk diplomacy', is reflected in the syllables of that time. It coincides both with the liquidity of the time due to the changes in the 1990s - I mean the data internationally - and with the domestic political crisis of the time. And it aims to achieve social cohesion - in whatever way it was achieved, unlike the elements of each other, which were shared - against the deep crisis of representativeness at that time. Why am I saying all this? I say them to say that over time there has been an opportune use of Greek public opinion. In time there was a huge dimension between what the Greek governments did and what the citizens believed. In the 1990s, particularly this is reflected in the Council of the Political Heads in 1992 - maximist demands were made.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u57	Make us a little bit of a lesson.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Stylion, I'm sure if Mr. Tasoulus who likes history was here, he would listen with caution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u59	Talk yesterday, let's hear him out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u60	I heard him very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u61	Do not intervene particularly in women colleagues. I've said it before. It's important. History since this morning, we've heard from here and there.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u62	So I'm saying that in the '90s, requests were made for pillaging...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u63	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Georgiod, stop talking! Respect the one in the Step! End.]
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u65	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u66	It's okay. Leave if you cannot hear the historical truth. Leave the Chamber if you cannot hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u67	Mrs Triantafel, you do not run the procedure. You're welcome. Don't revolt. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u68	So, silky requests for opportunism were made. And while the current diplomatic trend was another until 1992, that is, they signed agreements with the neighbouring country's national heterogeneous state figure, they said others in the world. In 2008 - and I want to be honest - there is freedom from what we call popular diplomacy. In Bucharest by you, by your own government - because I want to be honest - what we call popular diplomacy has been fully reviewed. And it was really the most organized position of the Greek side and created a framework for dialogue. And it's a national line to this day. So you see, I'm saying everything. Watch out now. I could speak, but I don't have time for how the Balkan states were created and after the Ottoman Empire and mostly after 1991. But I will only stand at one point. What's that point? After the break-up of Yugoslavia, prostates were created. Smugglers and drugs and corruption have been created everywhere. And there is an attempt to change the current situation. Be careful, there have been various things of patriocardial, ethnic cowardice on your part, except for a few exceptions, such as Mr Tasoula I mentioned before, regardless of our disagreements. What do I want to say today, by the way? I'm not going to say anything about the deal because there's been a lot of talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u69	Please, you have one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Today the tinyness of our political life comes out of you. It is obvious that the political parties, your political parties, are only mechanisms for the reproduction of parliamentary power and the revenue from it. They are moving on the basis of their close interests and on the basis of prosecuting and demagogic conditions. Of course, our great difference is that this government proves that it dares to produce a policy. That's the big difference. And as far as the experience of left-wing governance is concerned, this is becoming more and more apparent on every front. Finally, I would like to say that the approach of the two countries can be an example of the fragmented nations and peoples of the modern world, which only earn from it is at best, when they are divided, more votes on Eurovision and the worst humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Maria.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u72	Just a second, Mr President. The leaderships of the nations, smaller or larger, can come to an agreement to serve the interests of the peoples rather than the imperialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u73	Mrs Ahtsoglou has the floor. Please keep time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with complete consciousness and history of this agreement, and the sensitivity that a large proportion of the citizens can have in this matter and I, 30 of the thirty-three years of my life, have lived them in northern Greece, I think we need to see some facts in the face and clear. The first is that in 1993 the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia was accepted to the United Nations under this provisional name until a agreed solution was found with Greece. I think that anyone who does not ostracize can see that the term 'former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia' includes the word Macedonia abruptly. Secondly, in 2008, the Greek Government at the NATO summit then puts what was then and was the fixed national line, the fixed line of the Greek governments on the issue of the solution to a complex name with a geographical definition of erga omnes vis-à-vis all. This was the fixed national line drawn up since 2008 and was then supported by all Greek governments. This new national position, a complex name with a geographical designation vis-à-vis all, is broadly written on the Foreign Ministry's website on all governments, and it is characteristic that this position did not change on Mr Samaras' prophesying in 2012 to 2014. It refers to the programming statements by all governments since 1996, while they are dozens and reports of conservative leaders on this national line. To date, and this is the third element which I think we should also see in the faces and clearly, more than a hundred states, including China, the United States, Russia, recognizes the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia as 'Macedonia'. These are three basic elements which we must bear in mind and then clearly see the agreement in order to see whether this agreement - and I think that this is the only question that we need to answer with honesty at the moment - improves the situation in which the country is currently in place, if it improves the status quo, the current situation, and whether it respects the national position. These elements must be investigated in order to judge whether it is a good deal or not. And I explain briefly: I think that this agreement greatly improves the position of the country at the moment, the existing status quo, while at the same time fully respecting the national line. The agreement fully responds to the national line because it speaks of a complex name with geographical identification and for use against all, erga omnes. In fact, this erga omnes was something that had never been accepted in any case as a basis for discussion on the other side. What does that mean? That by ratifying the agreement our neighbours will not only use the agreed name in their international relations, in the international forums, but also within the country. Secondly, the agreement does not just respect the national line - a complex name with a geographical definition vis-à-vis all - but goes beyond it in favour of national interests. I mean, he's upping the bar even more. Why? For it stipulates that the neighbouring country should in any event carry out a constitutional review in order to bring this agreement into force. This issue of constitutional review is a major issue which was not dealt with by the previous Greek governments and was not on this map and is, at the moment, entirely accepted by the other side and I think it is undoubtedly a key point. In other words, the neighbouring country will have to change its constitution to clearly include the new name. And so, also the hundreds of forty countries that now recognise the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia as Macedonia are now going to have to recognise it under its new name "North Macedonia's Republic". Thirdly - and I think this in very important terms of the agreement which shows how much the cubit has been upwards in relation to the fixed national line that had been drawn since 2008 - it is the end of the altotitism, which is confirmed in the most official way, as in its constitutional review it should completely remove any reference that could be used in such a way. So these are the main elements of the agreement. It is an agreement that respects the values and dignity of the two peoples and at the same time withdraws any attempt to familiarise our history and I think that anyone who has open ears and unrealistic mood can see very clearly why this agreement improves the situation for our country from what is currently in force, but also from what was described as a fixed national line. At the same time, we must not forget that the achievement of the agreement itself, the fact that a chronic problem has been solved, which has troubled both our country and the relations between the two countries, and which has had toxic fumes in the Balkans as a whole, forms a new page on the beneficial cooperation of the two peoples and foundations the role of Greece as a pillar of stability in the Balkans. It will open commercial routes from our ports to Europe and give Greek businesses a new scope for action. Clearly, then, I think that you can see why with this agreement this country is better placed than today's data. Anything else I think is getting into the world of desires, not in the world of reality and as such can be welcome, but to understand that it is such, that they are desires that can be expressed by anyone and welcome. Or as Mrs Bakoyannis has said very well - I think - talking about the matter and commenting on the positions of the members of her group, where she would not want the term 'Macedonia' in, 'I would like to be Cindy Crawford, but I am not'. I think it was very well placed what constitutes a desire and what constitutes a real situation. But I would like to say to the minimum time I have some legal things. I do not see Mr Voridis here, but I have heard Mr Vorides say a few things, a number of things, legal elements, twice in a very strong way, which he also supported as self-proof truths. This was done twice, one in the debate on the prerequisites and one in the evening, if I am not mistaken, and that has to be answered. What does Mr. Vorides say? Mr Vorides says that the agreement with its sole signature by the Foreign Ministers produces legal results and binds the country internationally.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u75	Outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u76	Yeah, yeah. And it is internationally binding on the country abroad. Absolutely that. It therefore produces legal effects abroad. Why does Mr. Vorides say that? Mr Vorides says this in order, I think, to force Mr Kammenos to the current motion of censure and to tell him about the time now that he has to answer this issue and not later. Mr Vorides therefore says that all these steps envisaged outside the agreement that should take place, namely ratification of the agreement in the Parliament of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, a constitutional review in the neighbouring country, a referendum or not depending on what it wants and ratification of the agreement in our Parliament, are of no importance in relation to the legal consequences of this agreement abroad. What, though, really? I understand, as you understood, the political feasibility of Mr Voridis' argument, but we cannot forget basic principles of law or unless he does so deliberately, I think he will have to "slap up" his knowledge in International Law a little bit. The Vienna Convention of 1969, which defines precisely the law of the international treaties, provides: International conventions providing for a ratification procedure are only internationally binding since it has been ratified at international level. Secondly, the convention may contain additional steps to bring it into force, as the Member States want. The States, in other words, can freely decide that they want a number of acts to be preceded, so that the Convention enters into force and produce legal effects. Therefore, whatever steps the States want to take to ensure that the Convention does not start to produce its legal effects before both parties fulfil all the steps required by the agreement. The same provides for the Constitution of our country in Article 28, which expressly states that international conventions are an integral part of Greek law since their ratification by law and their entry into force, according to the terms of each. It follows from these considerations that the only signing of an international convention prior to its ratification and entry into force is, in no way binding on the parties or creates an international liability in the event of failure to comply with the agreements. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Are these happening in this agreement? It's happening. The agreement itself provides for steps to be taken to bring it into force and produce legal effects internationally. It provides that a constitutional review should then be carried out in the Parliament of the neighbouring country, then the Secretary-General of the United Nations will be notified to the National Parliament and then this series has been completed, the sequence of these acts, the depositary of the Agreement, the UN Secretary-General. Only then, it clearly says the agreement in Article 20 - read it - produces legal results and binds our country internationally. That is to know what we are talking about, because in this Chamber we know other people legally and it is not, I think, right in the name of a political feasibility to present as self-proof truths legal principles which are constantly misinterpreting and distorting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u78	That, Mr President, is to respect the time for other speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u79	It is good that new colleagues also have access to their legal knowledge, to their international diplomas, to the debate that is taking place, so that we do not live among ourselves who are the giants of legal or mechanical or philosophical thought. That's good, that's good. Mr. Plakyotakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide from you that every time the government concludes a negotiation, and I hear Mr Tsipras showing us the important results of each agreement, cold sweating, I am 'blue'. The Greek people, while listening to the Prime Minister of the country repeating once and for all after every negotiation that he has fought hard and did not succumb to extortion, I am sure he must feel uneasy, if not terror. Because, listening to the words spoken by Greek citizens, but also to the lies of SYRIZA - ANEL understands that ultimately the consequences of their unreasonable policy will be paid for themselves and their children in the years to come. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we are spectators of the same work. In the summer of 2015, Mr. Tsipras after a seventeen-hour thriller and a hard battle with the Troikas brought us an amazing deal, but he eventually burdened the Greek people with a further EUR 86 billion. Just two days ago Mr. Tsipras also celebrated our country's exit from the memoranda. And he baptized the bill for the prerequisites as the Greeks' passport for heaven. But well, gentlemen of the government, don't you have a trace of emotionality? Who do you think you're finally addressing? To natives? Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the issue of the Skopje agreement, where half the government - because the ANELs are playing it insurgently and follow another way - celebrates its national success. But the question is, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, why are you celebrating? Because after six months of secret diplomacy, strong accusations towards all those who dared to manifest their national feeling at the rally and who were ultimately targeted as ethnicists, intolerance, patriots, have you brought an agreement that is a gravel tombstone for the Greekness of our Macedonia? Mr Tsipras, both you and the Foreign Minister, Mr Kotzias, have said that you have reached an honest compromise. You will probably be ignoring that a fair compromise is the mutual retreat of all parties in order to find an interim solution where the benefits and damages eventually are about the same for everyone. With this agreement, however, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the Skopje do not seem to grant anything concrete and tangible. Mr Tsipras and Mr Kotzias, you have given everything to Mr Zaev. And in exchange for what did you finally receive? Promises. Greece's negotiating power has disappeared. You have given Skopje the green light to enter NATO and the European Union, and you have received vague time promises to revise the Skopje Constitution and to hold a referendum in the neighbouring country. And the dominant question that lies with the Greek people is: Why? Why, Mr Tsipras, did you have such an impulse to close the issue of the name of Skopje? Besides negotiating power, in this negotiation time was on Greece's side. Skopje had a matter of survival and not Greece. Skopje sought to join NATO and the European Union and not Greece. What is this, gentlemen of the government, that forced you to take this passive and nationally harmful attitude? Did your commitments, Mr. Tsipras, to major international players and exogenous players? Speak clearly to the Greek people. Once in your life, tell us the truth: What did you agree to in the background and to what you bound our country and the Greek people? Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement that SYRIZA has presented to us is a bad agreement, a bad agreement for Greece, which grants Macedonian language, Macedonian ethnicity to the Skopje. The name ‘Severna Macedonja’ will also apply only to the bilateral relations between Greece and Skopje, while to the relations between Skopje and all other countries the ‘North Macedonja’ will apply. Furthermore, as we have heard from Mr Zaev's dilemma, FYROM citizens will call themselves the Macedonians, as will the rest of the world. Ladies and gentlemen, the government of Kostas Karamanlis in 2008 before negotiating with the government of Skopje, what did it do? He informed the members of Parliament's Committee on Foreign and Defence Affairs, informed the political leaders, informed our NATO allies, called for a debate in plenary and, of course, went on a single national line in Bucharest, thus achieving a historic 'no'. SYRIZA - ANEL government has taken the responsibility of negotiating a crucial national issue in a divisive and opportune manner, as the Prime Minister has of course used to us, following his friendly tactics with all the issues of topicality, the memorandum negotiations, Greek-Turkish, immigration, crime and, of course, the invasion of activist groups, which cares for them. The logic of government officials is opportune and seeks micropolitical benefits. In foreign policy, however, there are no opportunities, nor of course regularities, which can ultimately be fatal and nationally detrimental. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u81	Minimal tolerance, Mr. Plakatakis. In a minute to finish, or the minutes will be eight.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u82	When negotiating critical national issues, the government must be united and with a single national line. This pragmatism of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is extremely dangerous for the country and, of course, for our external issues. That is why it has to be brought to an end immediately. In today's critical and unstable period, where cosmogenic changes are taking place in our neighbourhood, a national consensus and a single national strategy is required. The current government cannot secure these conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement that SYRIZA has brought us does not serve Greece's vital national interests. The Greek people and Macedonians are even more proud of their origin and history.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u83	You're welcome, Mr. Plakyotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u84	I shall conclude, Mr President. This agreement creates national risks for the future and hurts the national sensitivity and mind of the Greek people and the Macedonians. I therefore urge you to vote in favour of the New Democracy's motion of distrust against the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u85	Thank you. Mrs Theleritis will be given the floor, then, while Mr Stamatis was the one who spoke, Mr. Paramatis will speak because the Minister will speak, Mr. Gerovasilis, to be Mr. Stamatis immediately after the Minister. Here, Mrs. Welleritis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I welcome the condemnation of fascism and patriots, expressed and proposed by the President of the Greek Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u87	Excuse me, Mrs. Therlerite. I was wrong. It was Mr. Koutsubas. So after you, Mr. Koutsubas will speak. It doesn't play any part.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u88	No, and Mr. Koutsubas doesn't play any role!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u89	Would you like me to come down, Mr. President? I'm fine with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u90	Oh, no. What are you talking about? Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u91	We want the government to come down, not you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u92	I do not think that your wish can be expressed. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u93	Please continue, Mrs. Theleritis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u94	I'm on it. It was also expressed by Parliament's unanimous decision to deprive the debate and the participation of Nazi Gold Dawn in today's debate - but not only this and its condemnation - which has a specific political project: the destabilisation and undermining of the democratic culture. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Being polite doesn't mean I don't want a little quiet to talk. Thank you very much for understanding. The Qualified Opposition submits a motion of censure to the Government, which, in time less than a government mandate, leads the country out of the nightmare of the memorial to which the specific governments responsible for its collapse have been thrown. In time less than a full government mandate, it changes Greece's image and attempts to create a new country, based on a new productive model of growth. In less than a full government mandate, it has changed Greece's image abroad and restored the credibility of the international partner, as the visits of all the top foreign leaders in our country have shown for three years. In time, therefore, less than a full government mandate closes a national issue without hesitating to clash with its national fantasies, because colleagues and colleagues, for more than twenty-five years Greece has been living in a fantasy. While all the countries of the world had, in any case, recognized the name "Macedonia" for the state of Skopje, in Greece our national and collective obsession and the refusal of the governments of the 1990s and 2000 to retreat to the powerful nationalist current that leaked and leaked our society, prevented any prospect of solution. But let us see what happened to this day. Everyone who has travelled abroad knows well that the use of the term "Macedonia" was consolidated. Although the country officially had the name FYROM in all international trade fairs and conferences, in all sports organisations, Skopje was normally recognised under the name ‘Macedonia’. In dozens of cases, the Greek delegations - missions, teams - left protesting what was happening. At the same time, the official reports of Skopje's governments spoke of "Macedonian Minorities", they sent out messages of falsification, they made flags with the Sun of Vergina, they called roads and airports with references to Greek historical Macedonia. In short, in the name of a fantasy, we left a front on our national issues open, with all the dangers that this involved in instability in the region. It was necessary for the juncture where two governments, those in the two countries, who had broken all their relations with nationalism, to see a chance to close this wound. Negotiation lasted months. It has reached an agreement which, if implemented, will be the foundation for a new era for bilateral relations and for the Balkans. Is that a good or bad deal? Because my colleagues and colleagues have argued with irresistible arguments, in my opinion, and with the views they have put forward on the historical, legal, cultural, rightful and political dimension of the matter, I shall refer to the views of a number of academics as to whether this agreement is good or bad. Antonis Liakos, Emeritus Professor of Modern Greek History at the University of Athens: "This agreement is historic and ends a twenty-seven-year-old problem. If it goes well to the end, it will be one of the few achievements of Greek foreign policy, with regard to national issues, as important as the entry of Cyprus into the European Union. It shows skill, temper and clear look. And I doubted it would be complete, but we have to give them credit to the bank. Calm down and celebrate together." Dimitris Christopoulos, Professor Panteion University: "The name of a state can be marginally negotiated, even if this is not customary in international relations. The name of a nation, the identity of a people, the way it feels its "unfit", cannot be negotiated because it is not a question of rules, but a matter of conscience. I therefore believe that the agreement finds a sustainable section that is worthwhile. Athens wins the name by geographically aggressive determination against all and Skopje retains the dignity of their country's people." Athena Skolariki, Lecturer of the Department of Sociology of the University of Crete: “About thirty years after the crisis of the 1990s, how do we understand about Macedonian? If Greece invoked the historical truth, the lack of information has characterised the Greek attitude in this matter from the outset, especially as regards developments in the new era, the era of national movements, the political and war conflicts of the 20th century. This deficit was due to the policy of silence of the non-existent issue that the Greek State followed throughout the post-war period. This was linked, on the other hand, to the distorting impressions cultivated by the primates in mobilisation for Macedonia's Greekity. One of the sources of misunderstanding between the two countries is the difference in how we define Macedonia geographically." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will give me two more minutes, Mr President, because of the delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u95	I'll give you a minute. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u96	"Greece is defined by reference to ancient Macedonia, considering it coincides with modern Greek Macedonia". And here I really won't expand because of lack of time. Ms. Sia Anagnastopoulou has been mentioned very extensively in her position. I will only keep the last part of this article that says that the current government under Zafe is not only moderate, as is said here. It prevailed through the conflict with anti-democratic practices, nationalism and the archaic rhetoric of the previous government. He may want to solve the difference with Greece, provided that both sides do not retreat any solution. To conclude, I would like to say that the historic moment has finally come and in the context of this debate we are being given this opportunity to look critically at the political authoritarianism that was born in previous years and the legitimisation of new nationalism. To move away from the outraged nationalist intransigence which has a huge responsibility for the nationalist voices and attitudes that have been strengthened for some time and prevailed on the other side and which have been seen here this weekend. To move away from the division and the Nazi views aimed at undermining democracy. Let us gather together again, as democratic forces and as citizens, with a view to peaceful coexistence with our neighbouring peoples and neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u97	Thank you. Please, Mr. Koutsubas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I am taking this step, addressing the Members of the House. I do not intend to convince you to change your mind. But I think I have a parliamentary obligation, not just to express my opinion, but to tell you in a different way those points which, in my humble political opinion, I think you are mistaken. The exercise of the constitutionally fortified and provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the right to submit a motion of censure on the part of the opposition, is not only a top parliamentary act but also a necessary political and moral obligation towards the Greek people and to the House. This is because we are not simply informing the House and the Greek people. The main point at which, in my first remark, you are mistaken is that you believe that the motion of censure is intended to reduce the government. As far as I have at least heard from the Vice-President, but also from the others, the purpose of the motion of censure is not, in itself, the fall of the government, but to convince you either not to sign the agreement or to withdraw it. I say this to the ANELs too. That is the purpose. We do not care at this given stage for the government to fall. We had other ways and other reasons to bring in, if we wanted, a motion of censure. However, since this is a major and national issue, you should consider the concerns that exist in society and what we tell them every time from this step, which we all want to show the good, that we are nationals. It is commonplace that there must be unanimity on major national issues, unanimity or, as far as possible, a wide range of issues. The citizens are asking us: 'Why do you not agree on this?' So let's see why we don't agree. First of all, because I think it was a mistake to handle the whole thing in this sense. You have always considered this issue - and I have kept both the position of the Prime Minister and your other officials - that the Skopje issue was a political lackiness, that is, that it was for Greece another political act. That was the first mistake. It is not a political retreat, because if it were political, as colleagues would have said, we could somehow resolve it. Because it was a major national issue, it has not been resolved so far. And what did you do? So you have created distrust both within Members of Parliament and in society, and now there is a failure to remove this distrust, in terms of lack of responsibility in dealing with the whole issue and the consequences that this agreement brings with it. And why are you making the second mistake again? In what political environment and with what legitimacy? What do we mean by a political environment? I'll just remind you of one sentence. What they said at the time, lasting the war, that you don't negotiate with the head in the mouth of the tiger. That's what you did. A country that is still weak, as we are now, without any reason being rushed to resolve - others were burning - you went to negotiate and solve it well. And you spoke of political legitimacy. I will give you another explanation as to why you have no legalization. Because I think the constitutional order is being violated. And who's that? When a government is based on another party, which is extremely contrary to this position, I think we have a clear violation of constitutional order, as this position, the agreement is not based on the government itself. It's over and out. From there on, is there a far-reaching agreement or not? I do not want to be unfair, because there are many lawyers who will say that he is not heterogeneous. There are some things for the other part. I could tell you, because I see you professors of the constitutional law of the School of Law, that it is, in my own humble legal and political sense, from the Skopje side to the relevant legal system - Mr. Professor, I see that you are following me - and from our own, it is a diligent and promising one, if you will, with a lesser role with a right of expectation, without even having the right of retreat. We'll find that in front of us. We shall reap that and the next generations, to which we shall have a say, will blame us for that. What was the other mistake you made, ladies and gentlemen? The other mistake you made is that you, as a government, did not observe what was imposed by parliamentary order and political order, that is, what all the governments have done all the previous year, because that is where you would have released a strong paper that you would have in your hands: to have called the opposition, the leaders of the other parties, to have informed Parliament, that you had drawn up a national line. So you lost this cause that you had and brought an agreement yourself and you want this agreement to support the Greek people together. This is the second mistake that will cause problems. And what do you achieve with that? I'll be brief. You deliver our strongest diplomatic papers, you commit the country and the next government and you create gray zones on the issues of language, ethnicity and erga omnes. There is a big political road map, I doubt it can be observed on the part of the Macedonians, but one thing is certain that in society there is a concern: if you really want to resolve the issue or try to get time and try, if you want, to do so in order for the next government to be charged. But you ignore this, which we cannot overlook, that this agreement, with its signature, creates legal consequences that are irreversible and there are no appropriate safeguards to prevent it from happening in the future. And I close with this: From this step I have never tried to gloat, but I will ask you something. Really, the song, what we learned in elementary and military, Mr. Minister, "Macedonia known as Alexander country", will be a relief act or will the Macedonians of Skopje take care of it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u99	Apparently not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u100	Please, Mr. Nikolaos Paradopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the previous speaker, Mr Koutsouba, wondering, among other things, like the previous speakers, who is being raped, who has the prelude - one of the speakers said - to change the current situation. We therefore need to remember that the current situation was the one on the basis of which hundreds of nine countries in the world called Macedonia the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and where too many peoples and peoples and cultures did not even know that Macedonia exists which is not Slavic. What I'm telling you is my experience. About twenty years ago friends of Macedonians who lived in Australia were telling me that unfortunately we also find that Anglo-Saxons are listening to Macedonia and believe that we are Slavs. They have not heard the possibility of a Macedonian. This ultimately raises a more general problem: Are words or things more important? Philosophy is the question, but to say that it does not enter as a diaspora, because it matters both words and things. It's getting as an emphasis. What does it matter more to the Greek, to the Macedonian? How do I know you? Do I know you from the look and from the edge and not from the name? What is more important is the land that the immigrant kisses at the time of the reunification or the name of the region or the place? What is this finally making Greek and Macedonian Macedonian, Peloponnese Peloponnese? The answer to the whole world, I think, leads to democracy. Most recognize Greek culture, recognize the uniqueness of the Greek and those who live in this area and the Macedonians, thanks to the fact that this place is the cradle of democracy and gave the earth the values of democracy, as is dialogue. And I say this and emphasise the dialogue, because it is very characteristic in this Chamber that some respect the views and argue about the right or wrong. Others do not do it and are confined to the glorifying expressions of the type "sold, traitors, etc." and the splitting speech. You will tell me that Hellenism and Macedonia and all other today's areas of our country are linked to democracy in antiquity. Now there are other things. Now some other things make Macedonian Macedonian or Greek Greek. So let's see the other things. I suggest we go a little bit to a recommendive moment of modern Hellenism in the Troizina Constitution. We could go to the Epidaurus Constitution, or we could go to the Astros Constitution, but the Troizina Constitution is more processed, it comes then and I think we can take care of it. Why do we need to take care of it? For in this Constitution states who are Greeks and, among other things, states: "Those who are under the Ottoman yoke believe in Christ come and come to the Greek territory to compete or reside in it." It's not the origin, it's not the names, it's not the labels, it's the labels. Interestingly, the other guy came to this place and came to fight for this place. This is Greek. And the following: Greeks are - this is the forehead - "Those indigenous and non-nationals - still this origin is not the origin of this interesting - and these descendants who are naturalized in foreign dominance before the publication of this Constitution come to the Greek territory and swear the Greek oath. Those foreigners who come and naturalise." And foreigners still! These are Greeks. And it is not just the constitutions of the revolutionary period that express the Greeks. We join the Greek culture, the Greek tradition and the king, who was interested in the names. Of course the King, above all, was seeing a substance, seeing the need for a confederation of peoples who have a sense of democratic, a mind of freedoms in the Balkans. After all this we have today literally arrived - we are on the last day - an agreement which seems to be of great importance for the name 'Macedonia'. Does this deal add power to the Macedonians or remove? But let's remember, that's what the whole earth called us before. Let's note that for the first time now our neighbours are forced to recognize that they are not the Macedonians, but they are only the northern Macedonians, they are forced to recognize that Pella is Greek, that Alexander in Pella is born, that the brand of Berna has nothing to do with the Slavs. All of these were not recognized until today. For the first time with this convention, they are forced to recognize the Greekity of Macedonia and to say "and we are some others a little more, we are northern" and to recognize the specialities of their own language in relation to that which they claimed as theirs. I have listened with respect to the colleague who was talking about Pella because he is from there and his love for her. But thanks to this agreement, it is now recognized that Pella belongs to Greek culture. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this agreement begins on a much better day, where our country will be much stronger with regard to its northern borders, but it will also have a culture and names that the whole world will respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Paraskevi. The Minister for Administrative Reconstruction will now speak, Mr. Olga Gerovasilis, and then Mr. Dimitrios Stamatis from New Democracy. Then I will announce to you the general arrangement of today's debate with faces, things and hours, so that you all know and all what we're going to do. We'll be fine. Here, Mrs. Gerovali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, obviously the Greek language is very rich, we all know that. However, this does not mean that words, political attitudes or events can be altered or words can be conceived in another way, which gives a case-by-case meaning, concealing or emphasizing, in the way that they give rise to, that is, historical knowledge, often with nationalistic narratives, reality with patriocardial slogans, and arguments with taxed celestial cries. And all this dangerous, amoralistic wisdom to be baptized by some responsible national attitude. And I would remind you that the name that our neighbouring country has had to date - that is, the Conservative Party leaders have agreed to represent our country in bilateral and larger international bodies - that is, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, ended for twenty-eight years. And, of course, at those times, the Left played no role in diplomacy or in government choices. I imagine that's self-evident. The political manipulations and international agreements of the New Democracy, the weaknesses and the inertia, ladies and gentlemen, which you are accustomed to today, are all the things that have so far supported our neighbours' strands. Your national diplomacy and foreign policy have so far led to the fact that, as has been said many times, more than a hundred forty states on a bilateral level have recognised the name "Macedonia's Republic". And while all of this contributed to the global community, your reality was known, ostracism, the reaction, even though one did not understand that the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, with its initials, included Macedonia and the satisfaction of the domestic audience, mentioning within our country the neighboring country with the name of the capital. Ladies and gentlemen, are there countries that take the name from the capital, that is, can we say Italy Rome or Greece Athens? And of course, forgetting and concealing that since 1913 the region has been divided, Greece has received 50% of the region defined as Macedonia, Bulgaria 10%, Albania a small proportion and around 40% of Yugoslavia. And, of course, the hundreds of years have never been questioned and how would that be possible? In truth, therefore, it hides that the attitude to the Macedonian was to constantly hide the historical elements and to use as many historical periods as from antiquity to modern Greece as a matter of urgency. Also, use international conditions at best and, of course, close the eye in the activation of patriocapalism and anger. You've done so well. You have served our national interests so well that today all this Europe welcomes the conclusion of the agreement. To talk about solving a long-standing problem, clearly recognising the strengthening of the country's geopolitical position and international means to say that Macedonia is changing its name and constitution. I will say this twice: Macedonia changes its name and constitution. I have also seen an interesting comment today from 'FOCUS' like Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Orban. Take care of this. Ladies and gentlemen, this agreement is finally trying to salvage your success, which is condensed in the 'Macedonia' recognised so far. And it is an agreement, which deviates at all from the national line for a complex name by geographical identification of erga omnes. Furthermore, it creates an obligation on the neighbour to carry out a constitutional review, thereby putting an institutional end to the perversion and reproduction of the neighbour. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, of the New Democracy, these are truths that you are trying to blur and hide and make them forget in many ways and, of course, the lionisation of the motion of censure. I think, however, that it was not the real substance, that you are not reproaching us for that - you are, of course, writing it in the text of reproach - but you have actually found a chance to make a reproach, because you cannot take it any more out of power. You imagined, you were convinced of the left parentheses. Instead, we are at a special moment today to find a solution from our own government to the tripartite'memorandums, debt and Macedonian'. We are giving solutions, ladies and gentlemen, and we are finally leaving them behind. Anyone who wants to stay back without a solution. And because we are already in the next step, in the rapid implementation of productive reconstruction and social well-being, as well as fair growth, you do not tolerate either the route or the successes of this government. You cannot tolerate gaining ground, what we have lost over your days in the world community and cannot afford to praise us internationally. For two and a half years, I think, you have only made one investment - and I think you know that well, because in your days, no investments have been made - in the distortion of reality, in ignorance, in fear, in the shallow collective memory and now in the humble instincts of patriocardialism and nationalism. And take care of that. It's dangerous. The mixture of nationalism in foreign policy and extremist neoliberalism in the interior is more than dangerous and fuels populism. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement is another opportunity to say other things by their name. Because the New Democracy, unjustified to many and its political tradition, has been dealing with reproach everywhere every day. And because - you will allow me - in this dialogue and in the past two days I have heard a lot about both the process and the area of my responsibility, I would remind you that we have also been accused in these days of party armies, transmigrant hordes, the enlargement of the state, the expulsion of expenditure, obsessively and unannouncedly, of course. You know what we've done. We have restored the injustices you have created. We have restored working peace and security to the public. I remind you of firefighters, I remind you of the workers in cleanliness, I remind you of the hiring to health. We streamline human resources service structures. You deliberately use it - so I say you do it consciously - incorrect evidence. That is to say, the Greek State from 2015 until today has been reduced by ten thousand civil servants. That's not what it's called swelling, it's called a reduction. Of course, no one's bothering to see the census system. The whole opposition is based on evidence that various families are moving, and also from my Ministry, which is seconded to different parties, and which have to press for about twenty years at work, and they are showing evidence. The census, of course, you do not know it, because you have always concealed the census system, so that today you are talking about increasing fugitives from our own government, which is, in fact, the first and only record. We do not have half the people you had throughout the government either. I won't go much further on this. But I will recall this, which is essential, that in December 2014, due to the upcoming government of SYRIZA, on one night Mr Mitsotakis appointed all directors throughout the public administration. That's called a remarkable choice, I imagine, for you. [[At this point the end of the speech bell is ringing by the Secretary-General.]] However, these people - and I am ending, Mr President - have never driven them out of their positions because we are not a republic. It is still today and for every position that is judged, because we have started crises and are completed, the next one is entering not by delegation but by crisis. This is the first time in the Greek public administration. With all these distortions and much more you tried to toddle the first evaluation and the second and third and fourth. In the fourth with this intelligence of general secretaries and how SYRIZA places its own people. Of course, you've been putting your own men of secretaries of ministries for years. If we wanted to maintain the party state, we wouldn't change it, it would be very helpful for us. But I can't hear it, and I can hear it these two days.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u104	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, I have come out of the matter but they have been discussed in this debate and I have to respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u106	On 29 June we have a question. We're gonna laugh a lot!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u107	Okay. You'll get the answer when the Minister's ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u108	But until then, the dialogue between some people with a specific brochure and the reproduction of false evidence has been carried out. Because some people think you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u110	So the country will walk with the forces of progress. The maintenance forces will stay back steady. And these patriotic logics and policies will also enhance our country's geopolitical role internationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much. I call to the Step Mr. Stamatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since this morning there has been an irrevocable decision by the supreme Greek court of the existence of a Macedonian national and Macedonian language. In other words, two of these elements contained in the agreement, which the Prime Minister intends to sign tomorrow with Mr Zaev. It's been hours since the morning and there's been no official government position. This decision is binding, is an irrevocable decision of the Supreme Court. Can anyone, even the Prime Minister, even write it in their old shoes? If not, what are we talking about today? The government should or at least now have to take a position immediately. I don't care if Mrs Thanou is in the office of the Prime Minister. Others are curbing and other people are concerned with it. What we are interested in is the decision of the Ice Arena. I'm coming to the point. I'm not going to bother you with the curiosity of the deal. There has been an extensive debate and I think that this content is understandable, especially in the vast majority of Greek citizens, within and outside Greece. In other words, these people that the prime Prime Minister, but also many members of the SYRIZA party, did not hesitate to call extreme nationalists or graphics. And I would like to ask myself, Mr President-in-Office, why did Mrs Gerovalis raise the same question - the following: Mrs Gerovasilis, Mr Kammenos and the ministers, from the ANELs, who were against the convention yesterday and who made much tougher designations than those used by the other parties in the Chamber, Mr Kammenos and those ministers in what category do you incorporate them into? To extreme nationalists or graphics? Because he's next to you. They're sitting next to you. You're running with them. That's where you don't talk. I don't know how you characterize them. Obviously, whatever characterisation you give in front you have the aggressive definition of 'usable'. Useful for your stay in the government. I now come to the question of negotiation. I'm trying to be as brief as possible. What negotiation are we talking about? The secret lisverish, made by Mr. Kotzias with Mr. Demetrov months all and then by the Prime Minister with Zaev? Is that what you mean by negotiating? Do you mean good political behaviour on a major national theme? So you come to ask and extract from the opposition parties their consent? Mr Kotzias, in fact, has been kindly and arrogantly told us that until he goes to his summer holiday, the issue of Albania will also be closed. I don't know, it's Mr. Tsipras's thing. I, if I were Prime Minister, I would have expelled him at that time. Because it is not the duty and responsibility of the Foreign Minister to say 'I will close the matter with Albania until my holidays'. And of course, how Mr Kotzias closes the issues, we saw it. Wasn't the Minister of Foreign Affairs when he advised or heard from Mr. Tsipras the proposed name Ilinden? You obviously heard all of you that Mr Zaev said five days ago that he had agreed with the Prime Minister in the name of the "Democratic Republic of Macedonia of Iliden". Can this experienced and skilled leader of our foreign policy - even now - give us his opinion and, if he was wrong there, what guarantee can we trust him in the rest? Apart from that, negotiation. Who negotiated to defend Macedonia's Greekity? How about you? But at least half of you, you publicly pressed and said that we should give them the name 'Macedonia'. It's like getting the Olympiacos coach to refer to a Panathinaikos- Olympiacos game and we're waiting to see the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u113	Samaras gave it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u114	You'll hear it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u115	Please be quiet. Wait a minute, you have a colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u116	Be careful because I have a minute, I'm overlooking all the rest and I'm going to come to the success of this agreement. You celebrate the success of this agreement. You celebrate success, constantly invoking the praise for foreign governments and the foreign press. Yes, sir. Who? You. Too bad in the soles of the shoe you consumed, to march outside the American Embassy and say: 'Knights of the people'! Too bad in shoe soles all these years!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u117	That's what you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u118	We don't need any certificates. We don't take any of them. You ask for and get certificates, but by paying a heavy national price. Let us come to the very content of the agreement. Why do strangers agree with us?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Stamatis, your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u120	Just a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u121	I'll interrupt you in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u122	Do you think they care about the name? And, Alaska, we'd baptize it, they'd accept it. That is not the problem of foreigners, neither NATO nor the European Union. The problem is to get Skopje into NATO and to start accession procedures with the European Union. And this agreement, which is complex and is evolving from now, between four months and ten years, is not of course a result and does not concern them. One thing they care about joining NATO and starting accession negotiations in the European Union. We are also paying the heavy price of achieving these objectives. Because this agreement has legal consequences. I have heard the Minister a moment ago, Mrs Ahtsioglu, saying: but there are no legal consequences, if any of the terms of the agreement are not met every time. You're wrong. Since the signing of the agreement, there have been legal consequences and since the signing there are surely political consequences. I mean, go ahead and say after it's not over and the deal doesn't end, NATO and the United Nations to get them out. You are consciously deceiving the world and, in fact, this agreement is nothing but the liquor for Macedonia's entry to NATO and the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's say the whole thing, let's see how it goes today. At first, we had a whirlwind, as you remember a two-day time ago, about exactly how the procedure will be done, after a majority of the decisions made by the Conference of Presidents. The debate has taken place in a three-day debate, and I would like to say, without any intention of paradoxing, that the debates that are now taking place, when we say two days or three days, are non-stop, that is to say, without at noon. Don't remember old procedures that were five days, totalling forty hours or thirty-six. You understand what I mean. So, we all consensually make procedures painful. We sit here and when we say two days, they're two days whole. When we say three days, it's three days. There's been a comfortable conversation. On the list, a hundred and fifteen colleagues have spoken. They have spoken with nine colleagues at the beginning, two rapporteurs, all parliamentarians, one party leader, Mr Koutsoubas, eight - nine ministers. There's been a comfortable conversation. The leaders, the leaders of the parties, are left to speak, except of the Golden Dawn, which was excluded from the list. They're coming for the vote tonight. We cannot, of course, exclude them from the vote on the motions of censure. Also, it is to speak another three ministers, plus Mr Kotzias, who will speak from the latter, that is to say, in the phase that the Chief of Staff and the Prime Minister will speak. We've kept the time. There are a number of colleagues left. You know the list was about sixty - seventy, and they've spoken a hundred fifteen. The proposal is this: and I was very clear, because Mr Samaras will also speak, which was not on the list. Obviously, as former Prime Minister, he has the floor, we are not talking about it. He'll have the floor. The proposal is to speak thirty-five Members, i.e. almost all, and Mr Samaras thirty-six. But the thirty-five Members will speak for five minutes and not seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u124	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u125	Leave it not now. Mr Anastasiades, the whole list can be cut. The House will be taking a decision shortly. Let it go, no. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u126	We didn't talk the other night.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Anastasiades, do not revolt, please. There was a comfortable debate, where many colleagues spoke seven, eight, nine, ten minutes. There's been contagion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u128	Don't let go of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u129	Good. You said what you had to say. Now listen to me about what I'm going to say. Please don't argue. You realize there's an economic effort going on. We have obviously left the first limit that we said about the end of the debate. Mr. Loverdo, please. We'll make it to Mr. Koutsuko, don't look for it. It wouldn't be different. We're not doing you a favor, Mr. Kutsuko, to God. Let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen: the vote will take place in the traditional way, in the traditional way, because it is a motion of censure. It'll start at 18:30 and go by about 19:15. That is the economy of this debate, so I repeat, and to a minimum, colleagues who want from today and not tomorrow to go where they are going, will go. However, I repeat that 95% of the list will be used. I am not referring to those colleagues who will not be taken up. That is, all the circles that have even two parties - you understand what I'm saying - will have been closed. There will be only a few Members who are on the side of a party at the end. It could have been either from here or from there. I would ask you to approve this proposal for the five-minute period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u130	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u131	Whether I can cut off or if I can't cut, Mr. Kyriazides, the process can be stopped here as well and the Chiefs can begin with a decision of the House. We're not gonna get there. We proceeded with consensus. I sat the other day six hours and I'll sit today for nine hours to talk. Leave the details and the misery. Please! You see the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u133	Here you go, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, we cannot agree with your proposal. We can't figure out why we went yesterday - I was here by 1.30 and by 2:00 and tonight we absolutely have to finish at 18:30. I've done calculations. I want the whole Chamber to listen to them: we still have about forty Members. For seven minutes each, it's five hours. We've got six party chiefs, it's three hours. I put 30 minutes on each. The ministers are an hour. You said three or four ministers would speak. It's an hour. All this, if you do, it takes us at 21:00 to 21:30. When we had the debate on the first day, when we started here, you yourself - and there are the Minutes - left us with the impression, I think, that there would be a relative comfort in time after the reaction on our part. And - I don't know if I'm doing this right - I don't give up a mistrust in a private debate that we had yesterday. At least I was left with the impression that we're going at 21.00 p.m. to 21.30 p.m. Mr President, of the forty Members who are to speak, at this time - I counted them - almost half of them are Members of the New Democracy, who all want to speak. And they have the right to speak. And there is time for everyone to speak, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Why would this indirect censorship take place? I do not think it is an honor to anyone in this Chamber to insist on that logic and to haggle in hours. I'm not asking you for some late-night conversation. I would ask that, instead of ending at 18.30, we should have all the time for our colleagues to speak and come to 21.00' - 21.30', Mr President. That is what I am asking, and I think it makes perfect sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u135	Please, Mr Loverdo, would you like to say your opinion too? We are listening to you and I shall then say my opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u136	I had the real pleasure, Mr President, of attending almost 90% of the speakers who have spoken. It's a very serious conversation. I remove what we have all removed together, criminal behavior and words. I keep the rest. The opportunity has been given for a very serious foreign policy issue, not only to be heard, but also to see the limits of the political system and its internal structures. These days and hours are very important. You made a retreat on the first day, and we went out to normal so far. If we read Rule 142 on mistrust - apologies for a few legal matters - it says that at the latest the vote is held at midnight on the third day. At the latest, so it can go earlier. But you do not have the discretion to tell the majority to say the opposite without explanation. You have to tell us why the two minutes should be cut off, for example. You have to tell us why eight speakers should be cut off. If there is no clear explanation on your part, then we are talking with majority votes and votes without justification. It's not like that, though. However, even if this is within your mind, these three days you didn't show it. So, without telling us why we have to make this retreat to finish as it started and this debate took place, we cannot agree. We reserve whether what you may have failed to say is so useful that it will make us change our minds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u137	Well, I'm experienced enough not to have a communication conversation on this matter. It is very clear that we have exhausted all the room for an extremely comfortable debate, with no stop procedures until 1.30' with seven minutes, eight minutes, nine minutes and I had asked for it to be held in the Conference of Presidents - and we also discussed it at the Conference of Presidents - that on the last day we want a comfort and that we should finish, if possible, even at noon or this afternoon. I won't tell you what you expected to hear to give it to the sites, because that's what you're interested in right now. I'm clear and I want us to stay out of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u138	You're saying that for me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u139	Please, too! We're in agreement. I am talking about the debate that has just taken place. Please, too! So there is no way to go with non stop process, with everyone talking about all, so many hours. I would remind you that the pre-dated debate, which at least in this House has become many times, consumes about twice as much time as we have on paper. Don't pretend you don't understand it. Together we have tolerated it, suffered, possibly repository at times. I certainly have. You've seen the times. You know that and after you know it, you are making this proposal. It's not like that. You know very well that the times, for example, of all the Heads of State or of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, which we all want to hear, will be different in these things from those we have and that is why we are trying to save the debate. So, please, very much, and since we have followed this whole process with the consent of all of us, just to make the debate comfortable by 1.30' and did not close it at 22.00 p.m. or at noon, this savings we made in the past few days to make use of it to end the voting process at about 19.15 p.m. to 19.30 p.m. This isn't the first time we're talking with five minutes. You know very well that in the five minutes we can say everything. I say not only to those who are in the European Parliament who are too limited, but you know of each other as well. I would ask you, at least, to be indifferent - I would demand consensus and consensus, but what matters what I - and the opposition parties, to ratify this proposal from this House, so that from now on. You saw that the time was shortened today and we are doing everything possible to talk as many Members as possible, that is, almost everyone. It's okay. Understand it. If, Mr Hatzidakis, you insist that all the Members of the New Democracy speak, and that is your problem, we will try to solve it if you are enough. I say it because I understand. But let that happen to the Bureau in order to resolve it by means of a decision on working hours, which will be notified, because they want the channels and radios to know, and so on. You realise that it is not a decision between us to say: 'Let's go and whatever time we're done, we're leaving.' All of us have a 'controll' in the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, could I say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u141	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, as you have put it, I agree. There's no objection. You put it very logically. But there remains one question to which you said that you are not answering, so that you do not give a basis for communication attempts and something like that. When the hours you have in mind, on your first proposal, that they will need us, they coincide with mobilizations, etc. - for which we neither call nor call, why did you intend to reduce time? Explain it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u143	You don't understand. It would coincide with the hours you say, if we kept the seven minutes and talked more comfortably.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u144	They're colluding anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u145	They don't coincide because we're going by 18:30, keeping the five minutes alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u146	So that was your problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u147	Oh, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u148	That was your problem, not to compress with the mobilizations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u149	The reason why and how we'll see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u150	First of all, you wanted something to avoid, but you said it. You confessed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u151	What exactly did I say? Let me hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u152	Whatever you said. And it's written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u153	That?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u154	Secondly, you are for the first time this three-day really incomprehensible. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u155	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u156	Others spoke nine and ten minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u157	Inside the House you say to me: 'Others spoke nine and ten minutes'? And fifteen and twelve and eight minutes! Is that the first time?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u158	You give the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Athanasios, today at 19:30 the House will be over. The vote will be over. And it became an excellent process. If you want anything else, say it directly. Here, Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, I neither want nor can I impose my opinion on the House. I would like to remind the House, however, that in the previous motion of censure made in the Samara government made by SYRIZA, the vote was taken on the third day at 12 o'clock. What I asked is that we have the same rights...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Hatzidakis, we're not up against this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u162	...with SYRIZA, when SYRIZA was opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Hatzidakis, put the full number of hours. That's what I've put in you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u164	Let me talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u165	Put all the hours of the two procedures in place. You don't understand what I told you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u166	Let me talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u167	And now let's go and come at 21:00 the time and finish at 1,00! Don't you understand what I'm saying all this time?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u168	I don't question your honesty, but Caesar's wife should not only be honest, but also be seen. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Since there are colleagues who want to speak, since there is a precedent since 1974, what is the reason why you want to vote at 6.30 p.m.? Is the world falling apart for two or three hours, Mr President? For Christ's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u169	Mr Hatzidakis, I wonder how you come back to arguments three days ago when I told you that if we called on the Services to tell you how many hours the proceedings were going and how many people were talking, you would see that this process is exemplary. Let go of me. I gave you an outlet in relation to your argument. So the point is that. There is no inequality in relation to the previous motion of censure, because now all three days we have done complete procedures. Yesterday we were here from morning to night and went up to 1.30'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Xydakis, do you want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u172	Do not refer to the period from 1974 onwards. I have an opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u173	We're wasting time now. I'm not talking about you. Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u174	Mr. President, two days we left at 2.30 a.m. All my fellow Members know - and my experience is much better - that from a certain point of view and then degenerative phenomena are observed. Colleagues are on their way to Stepma, they're tired, they're waiting. No one spoke less than nine or ten minutes. Everyone has something to say and it has become a super-use of time. Many opinions have been heard, a wealth of arguments of foreign policy and foreign policy arguments and screams, which have partly tarnished the process, leaving us now to a clear day. The Greek people are watching us. There's a theatrical element in theatre, and it's right. But that's not all. We have to get into the great narratives of the parties' leaders, the great positions. We are being watched carefully by people, and I think we owe him, the third day by the afternoon, by the night, as we said from the first day, to complete this process. If the Members of the New Democracy want, as you have said, let everyone take the floor to tell their views. I don't think we've made any violations of what was originally agreed. In fact, we're probably more generous to ourselves in total.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u175	Let's move on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u176	Yes, let's move on, Mr. Yakumato. They want all the New Democracy Members to speak, because you have made the motion of distrust. I accept it. You'll all talk. Of course you will speak like other colleagues for five minutes each from here. The technical issue, how to get out of the time I told you about it. Let the rest of you solve it. I imagine you don't have an opinion on this. That's right. Understood. We've come to an understanding. We're gonna be fine. Okay, the misunderstandings are here. Mr. Jellonis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing Greece's agreement with the neighbouring country, Skopje and I hear here whether this agreement is good or bad. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is whether this agreement defends national interests or not. I say that this agreement does not guarantee national interests. And suggestions that we, as a movement of change, do not accept. I have heard the Minister say from the Stepping of the House that the Party of European Socialists has taken a stand. I would like to remind you that PASOK along the way has had the flag of national interests very high. We continue this path as a Democratic Integration with our President, Mrs Gennamas, and we are defending Greece's interests again today. We are keeping up the principles of democracy, independence and dignity. We respect the principles of cooperation. In no case, however, will we become active in other interests in Greece and the Balkans. Eager to these suggestions may find those who call, even as smugglers - observers at a time. I would now like to refer to the agreement. Firstly, it is an agreement that was made without any national agreement. It is an agreement in secret and, if this debate were not held today, the Greek people would not know about it. It is a historic agreement for our country of very serious and very great political, historical, geopolitical and geostrategic importance for the country. We must not forget that we would not be discussing any agreement here today today if there were no interim agreement between PASOK and Andreas Papandreou in 1995. Today, we are discussing whether we will have an agreement that safeguards the country's national interests. Did FYROM then respect this agreement? No, along this path, over these twenty years, destroyed the letter and spirit of this agreement. What did you guys do now? You have reversed the conditions that the country has been negotiating so far. So far, the country has been negotiating the naming. Have you discussed the name of the neighbouring country at all? Not at all. In fact, at first, you gave him the nationality and the language. Nationality, citizenship: Macedonians. Language: Macedonian. And then you gave them the opportunity to choose the name. I would also like to refer here to a document from 2008, which is your hard ideological core. It's signed by two hundred of your officers. You say that the national interest is not at stake, if we give the constitutional name which the neighbouring country had, namely "Macedonia's Republic" and that "The threat to peace and political coexistence is in fact the killing machine called NATO." It's signed by two hundred executives. Among these are many ministers such as Mrs Ahtzioglou, Mr Gavroglou, the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos and many others. Please submit it to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Jellonis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So you didn't negotiate the name. At the same time, you gave them three names to choose the designation in front of Macedonia. You told them to choose. And what did they choose? They chose the "North Macedonia". Look, ladies and gentlemen, the geographical identification of the North type in direct contrast to the implied 'South' is absolutely unacceptable and rejected. Because international experience proves that such determinations have been used to describe divisions of countries with ethnic residents, such as in the cases of Korea and Vietnam or as in the case of Germany using the east and west. It is quite clear that in these cases there was a division of a country and a nation under a historical context and they leave the prospect of reunification open. To conclude, Mr President, I would also like to say that Mr Zaev and Mr Demetrov have insisted on maintaining and taking it - you have given it - which they have not asked for, the Macedonians in citizenship and the Macedonian language, because that is exactly what keeps their national ideals, Macedonianism, an ideal that disputes in his heart that Macedonian is Greek. Finally, in this very short year, I would like to say that this very historic session is a story for the country. On this course you are going on your own, with an agreement that divides the Greek people, on your own responsibility that humiliates our citizens and, indeed, at a period of test of their social and economic dissent. You are unfortunately driving the Greek people into national depression. You have really become the "quassimodos" of politics, gentlemen of the co-government, conferring terms linked to the long history of the Greeks. This is something that, as a Member of Northern Greece and the Prefecture of Serres, I cannot tolerate, because you grant our own historical and national identity in the name of some unspecified party of purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u178	Thank you. Mr. Karagiannis has the floor, and then Mr. Kalafatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, reasons for historical, cultural, geopolitical and economic require the development of an extroverted national strategy in the area of Southeast Europe. The strengthening and deepening of bilateral relations, which enhance the country's international position, is a matter of course, but at the same time, problems and outstanding years must be addressed. One of these is the challenge of today's debate. The positive attitude of our country towards the entry of the Balkan countries into the European family, the international initiatives of recent years and the memorandum of cooperation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the countries of south-eastern Europe are strengthening our position and establishing mutual relations of trust and good neighbourliness. The Balkans have always been the historical depth of Hellenism and Greek entrepreneurship. Today, thousands of Greek businesses are active in the Balkan countries. In particular, in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia eight Greek enterprises are included in the list of two hundred largest enterprises in the neighbouring country, according to the magazine ‘CAPITAL’, with a turnover of 7% of the total. Since the beginning of 2000 Greece has been in the leading position in terms of foreign investments in FYROM. Greek investment has created thirty thousand jobs and currently exceeds 1.5 billion euros. Trade between the two countries in 2016 amounted to EUR 800 million and our exports exceed 600. The oil sector, the cement industry, the tobacco industry, food and drink, ready-made clothing, marbles, retail chains and the banking sector are dominated by Greek businesses. However, we also have a special burden on current energy projects which make our country a key factor in the supply of energy from the neighbouring state and also from the wider region. The stability of our neighbouring state, friendship and close cooperation are, as is understandable from the above, crucial to our country that is in the poverty of FYROM's trading partners and foreign investors. Things would be better for us if there were no problem with the name, a big issue that has been dramatically and unjustly overdue, which served many interests of other countries, particularly Turkey, and which undermined ours. Turkey has invested considerable sums in many Balkan countries in recent years, in a thorough manner, exercising the strategy of flag-flagged Islam. In FYROM, its investments focused mainly on infrastructure, health, education and agriculture. This agreement best serves our national interests, strengthens and deepens cooperation in all areas such as agriculture, defence, energy, the environment, industry, tourism, education, health and cross-border cooperation. The example of Greece - Bulgaria, particularly in the development of common networks, is an indication of the successful actions of the Member States of the European Union. The two countries are an example of friendly relations based on common European principles and values. Let us consider the negative effects of the 1990s embargo, the repetitions and mistakes of the Balkan Reconstruction Programme, the backwardness of the extroversion and the consequences of the economic crisis that have led us to complete isolation and economic turbulence. How many opportunities have we lost with our own mistakes and omissions in our vital area of Southeast Europe? We see this today clearly through the macro-regional programme 'ADRIATICA'. No one is entitled today, coming out of the eight-year crisis and the strict comitology, to hamper the country's outward course and development. Extroversion and development are interrelated and complementary. How will we support extroversion without strong bilateral and multilateral relations, without respect for international rules, without mutual retreat and compromises, without friendly relations with other peoples, especially our neighbours? The question is not rhetorical. It is the core of modern patriotic thinking away from nationalist hysteries, foreign policy. It is the responsible attitude of a democratic country that is thinking and struggling for the future of its children. It would be omission at this point not to mention the great contribution of the Ecumenical Patriarchate to the church of FYROM, which renounced the title of the christmas church of "Macedonia" returning to the oldest, that of Archdiocese Archdiocese Ahrid. This Agreement concludes the necessary steps...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u180	Please, your time is over, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u181	..between two countries that have nothing to break up. And as old bridges united peoples, cultures and religions in all the Balkans, so now this agreement composes unitingly and creatively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u182	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u183	Who will take the floor later, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u184	Then there's Mr. Ballis and Mr. Castores, but we'll see who they are and how many are depending on who I'm yelling at. Mr Kalafatis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President, in advance for the goodwill. Ladies and gentlemen, every time I return to Thessaloniki I hear the pilot's voice welcome us to the airport "MAKEDONIA". At that time I feel like I'm going back to my home, to my special homeland, to Thessaloniki, to the city that hosts the University of Macedonia, to the capital of Macedonia. And I wonder: will I have the right tomorrow to use these names? Can local producers tomorrow use Macedonian names for their products? Article 1 of the Tsipra - Kammenos Agreement says that the settlement of trade names, names and trade marks will be carried out by an international group of experts. And I ask who we're going to give the right to decide for us? What else are we going to give the Skopje? Are we going to put them in our story too? Why? Unfortunately, however, that's not all. Article 8 of the agreement says that a committee will be set up to examine not only the books of our neighbours, but also our own for allvatory reports. It accepts that Greece should also be checked for possible aerial propaganda. And that's not just inconceivable, it's stupid. Because what can this check be done? That we must abolish the "Macedonian renowned", that we must unleash some of our history? Should we also close the archaeological site of the Aegean or Verginna so that we don't cause? Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I will say it as I heard it from Kostas Karamanlis: History is not deleted, deleted and is not rewritten. I'll say it, and as Mr. Mitsotakis made it clear. The Macedonian deposit is Greek and this deposit is unnegotiable. Ladies and gentlemen, the government says that the agreement responds to the national line for a name that will apply to all uses within and outside the neighbouring state. He's lying and he knows it. The erga omnes will not apply and will not be solved immediately. Firstly, because trade names, names and symbols are referred to an international group. Secondly, because a further committee will be set up to examine the history books of the two countries in order to eliminate any corrosion reports. Thirdly, because, as each country says, it will interpret the term 'Macedonia' and 'Macedonia' at will. And fourthly, but more serious, because the composite name will not cover the most important uses, which are identity and language. And all this is the black core of the deal. For the first time a Greek government accepts Skopje's claims to be called "Macedonians", to have Macedonian identity and to call their language Macedonian. For the first time, the neighbour's Prime Minister celebrates that he has an agreement that preserves the "Macedonian" national and cultural identity. And when these are said by our neighbors' modestest, what will their extremes say tomorrow? If they have the right not only to define themselves, but also to be said by the international community 'Macedonians', if they are recognized with our consent that they speak Macedonian language, if it is stated by us that they have a Macedonian identity, if we put our books in their judgment, if we deliver Greek names to an international committee, one is more than certain: that the complex name will be reserved for the state alone and not for the people, that the genie of pervertism will not be released, that where we were owed them will be asked tomorrow and the vine and the winds that are sowed today will become a storm. And that's irresponsible, it's unacceptable, it's dangerous. Ladies and gentlemen, we are listening to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs to accuse the previous Greek governments of keeping the matter unresolved for decades and, on the other hand, of making great concessions. They contradict and expose the country unjustly. At the same time, they pretend they did not understand that the negative course of things changed the decision of Bucharest, who claimed and achieved personal costs by Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis with the Minister of Foreign Affairs Dora Bakoyannis and the Minister of National Defence Vangelis Meimarakis. Let them finally understand that without that decision the case would be lost. Skopje would be in NATO under the name of "Macedonia" and Greece would be subject to the fait accompli. That decision reversed the direction of pressure and created a favourable situation for us, which, unfortunately, the government did not want to take advantage of. The New Democracy dared not. You, gentlemen, didn't want to, you couldn't take it, you couldn't. Weighed, measured and incomplete. But you don't surprise us. That's who you were, and that's who you were. So instead of invoking the Karamanlis attitude and at the same time abandoning it, do the same thing. So behave accordingly, listen to what Achilles Karamanlis told you today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment, Mr President, please. Thank you very much for the consultation. Some of you say that you disagree and that you will vote against the agreement when it comes to the House for ratification. It's going to be too late and you know it because it's going to have been done. Because NATO will be inaugurated before ratification by us and then who will be able to halt their course? And what if the Greek Parliament refuses to ratify the agreement? Don't you realize that the deal that opens the Skopje road to NATO puts the cart in front of the horse? We can tell you clearly that you hand over the only weapon that our country has today. The assertions of co-government are not a deception, it is a fraud.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u186	But you're going to finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u187	I shall conclude, Mr President, by a moment. I shall close, ladies and gentlemen, please very much. Yesterday I was until 2:00 an hour here and I saw colleagues who had seven minutes to speak twelve.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u188	It's no big deal, Mr. Comrade. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u189	The President of the Party, Mr Mitsotakis, first pointed out that, given the public objections of Mr Kammenos, Mr Tsipras did not have the necessary legality to sign such an agreement. We told you that he had an obligation before he went to the signature to come here to the House, as he did in the summer of 2015, and to request permission. He didn't. We had no other way, rather than tabling a motion of censure, and we did so now, as democracy imposes. The decision's responsibility belongs to all of us and we have a duty to take a clear position and say 'yes' to the proposal of distrust, to say 'yes' to the Greeks who demand to stop crime before it produces irreversible consequences, to say 'yes' to the Greeks who are asking not to let the government become a deliverer of foreign claims against the interests of Hellenism, to say 'yes' to the citizens who demand, to put a stop to the falsification of our history, to the unscrupulous claims of our neighbour and the Lionate agreement that we have before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Kalafatis, if I knew you'd say as a line for the "deliver of foreign interests", I'd cut you off earlier. That's what I'm saying. Some things are said to be exaggerated. Mr Charalambos Athanasios has the floor from New Democracy. You're not going to seven minutes, Mr. Athanasios. You're not a Macedon. You're in five minutes. So should Mr. Kalafatis. But, before you start your speech, I would like to inform the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS", eighteen members from the Keratsinos - Drapetsonas. The House welcomes you, be well. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will confine myself to the agreement and try with an analysis of its provisions to demonstrate why it is problematic and will ultimately be to the detriment of our country with its immediate consequences. The problems arising from the agreement already arise from Article 1 thereof. That means that this agreement is final. In other words, ratification by the parliaments of the two countries cannot deviate from its text on its essential characteristics, that is to say, the basic regulations. So only the signing of the contract by the government and regardless of whether it is ratified by the Greek Parliament will bind the country abroad to a quasi-equal situation of international responsibility, regardless of whether the position of the two parties that support the government is identical. Because the government in parliamentary democracies has the presumption that it enjoys Parliament's confidence. The same Article refreshs the chain of command of the neighbouring country. Firstly, the Greek term 'Macedonia' is introduced - I am referring to paragraph 3 of Article 1 - as the official name 'North Macedonia'. Secondly, it is recognised by Article 1(b)(3) that Skopje citizenship is the 'Macedonian'. Take note, ladies and gentlemen, something that is not understood. What does citizenship mean? The word is complex. It is produced by the verb enthusiasm, which means 'come directly' and the essential race, that is, origin. I come directly from the genus. The native is the genuine toward a particular genus, in this regard to the genus of the Macedonians. In other words, citizenship is a natural fact that shows race, racial origin. It is not a legal fact, such as citizenship. Thirdly, Article 1(3)(c) third subparagraph, that the official language of Skopje is the "Macedonian", i.e. the language of citizenship, as I have developed above. Now see what confusion or interpretative problems - if you like - can be created with the real meaning of the words "Macedonian citizenship" "Macedonian language". Greece and Skopje and the Greek side more understood that the words "Macedonia" and "Macedonna" will cause them an internal problem. They shall refer to the clarification of these terms in vague conditions laid down in Article 7 of the Convention. Be careful, the agreement uses the word ‘mountain’ to identify the words ‘Macedonia’ and ‘Macedonna’. The terms mean a clause, a condition and not a meaning in terms of content and meaning. Here's what the article says about the terms 'Macedonia' and 'Macedonia'. In other words, it defines the quality of these terms in Greece and in Skopje. The characteristics that will make them distinct for the two countries - I am regressing so that I do not read them over time, in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of Article 3 - are the region, that is, the territory, the population, history, the heritage. It says, however, that these are distinct for each country. The question arises: When, how and from whom will the distinction be made? Because they know the authors of the agreement that this is not just difficult but impossible to do so, they refer it to a committee of experts to resolve the emerging differences on the basis of archaeological and historical findings, interpreting historical facts scientifically. This is what is defined in Article 8(5). I don't want to read it to you. Paragraph 8 is well known and explains how the whole process is being done. So, we're going to review our story? And if basic historical differences arise, what happens? Is the situation going to be perpetuated? But evil will be done. The agreement will apply and produce results directly abroad and later within the country. And what if Skopje does not comply with Article 8(3) and change a symbol, or when their symbols later return to public use? And if the Skopje, in view of what is referred to in Article 8, claim that their history and culture are being violated, who will give the solution? There is no ratification provided for in the convention, we will simply run in international courts. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, in the final provisions of the agreement, do you know what is defined in Article 24? Article 24 states that Article 8(5) shall be applied provisionally and shall not bind any of the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u192	You've got one more minute, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u193	All right, Mr. President, let me go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u194	No, I won't leave you. You have until the sixth minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u195	Yes, but if that is the case, first, we will already have international commitments. I'm not going to mention them, Mr. Voridis said them yesterday. I'm telling Mrs. Ahchioglu to hear them. Of course, I also read the last paragraph that says that the committee, namely the expert committee, can monitor the implementation and refer to Article 12. What does Article 12, to which it refers, say, ladies and gentlemen? Article 12 shall establish a Supreme Cooperation Council which shall meet at least once a year for the implementation of the Agreement. You see, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that regardless of the pervertism that exists, as I have developed, the agreement is sketchy and will create many interpretative problems and will, in the end, be to the detriment of our country. I specifically address you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, because it's not worth someone to deal with your ANEL...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much. We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u197	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u198	But are you saying "the pigs" and we're wasting time? Okay, say what you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u199	... who have an alibi with the argument 'no' in the agreement, 'yes' to the Government. If that were the case, they should have pushed Mr. Tsipras to ask for a vote of confidence. Then it would suffice by a majority of one second present, with a hundred and twenty MPs as a lower number. Be careful, because each country's history is not offered for ideological verbalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Athanasios, I'll turn you off your microphone. I want some respect from you too. Your basic arguments, which were the last, have the experience of telling them first. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u201	As far as the rest is concerned, I am tabling the decision of the Ice Arena, which solves all the problems. Read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Be well. Now Mr Fotila from New Democracy will speak, then Minister Chakalotos and then Mr Karaoglou of the New Democracy, to keep one by one. Here, Mr. Lightla, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin the speech by restoring a huge injustice. Where they stand and where the fellow members of the coup d'état claim that they have already taken up an assumption, because of the bad news, they are supposed to negotiate all the previous ones, and they are supposedly able to win it. Apart from the fact that this is a great lie, it is a huge injustice to those who have so far fought on the basis of national interests and not of micro-political purposes, taking on political costs. And it is a lie, because those who have negotiated so far achieved much and important. Ladies and gentlemen, are you aware of many countries that, in order to decide their name, must their neighbours agree? I don't know. This is a huge success of those who have so far negotiated that, in other words, with their arguments, they have convinced the international community and recognized us the legitimate interest and the right to have the last word on the name of our neighbours. And let's call them whatever they want. Not a hundred forty, a thousand forty countries. If we don't recognize them, NATO and Europe, they don't. That's all for the story. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to play it smart or say that I knew it, although the truth is that I had predicted it and said it in public. However, I wonder: is there even one Member - and I am not talking about the SYRIZA Members, about all the other Members of the democratic arc - who thought that this negotiating group could actually bring a good deal? I personally had no doubt that whatever agreement they might have brought, it would be a bad deal. I was not sure how bad it could be, but I understood that a few days ago, when I heard that Mr. Tsipras called Mr. Mitsotakis to ask him how the Macedonian of Iliden looks. That's where I realized that things are really dark and I was unfortunately confirmed. However, the truth is that it was obvious for specific reasons that I will mention that it could not be different. Firstly, we already had samples of writing your negotiating capacity. Last time they negotiated, they charged the country and the citizens more than 100 billion and then they said the lenders were also pushing them. Now, who's pushing them? Secondly, people who have publicly declared that they have no conscientious problem recognising Skopje as Macedonia as a fascist and protesting in 2008 in Bucharest in favour of the recognition of Macedonian ethnic and Macedonian languages. So what can we expect from a battle that the one who has to win, does not believe it, does not consider it fair? Thirdly, from the outset this negotiation was a mistake. The New Democracy said so from the start. First of all, all the necessary issues must be resolved, and lastly in the debate, it should be the name of the subject. The first basic and necessary condition to continue any conversation is to agree and ensure with our neighbours a simple thing: that there is no Macedonian nation. First of all, then everything else. What's next? To agree that whatever the name we choose will apply to everyone. And finally, we're going to talk about the name. What did this government do? The exact opposite. To end up where? Let's give it all up. And Macedonia and ethnic and language, and without erga omnes. I wonder: What did we finally win? Fourthly, the cherry on the cake was when we heard about Iliden's Macedonia. Ladies and gentlemen, when, after many months of negotiations, the other side thinks there is room for proposing the 'Illinden Macedonia', which, as Mr Mitsotakis rightly said, is the erga omnas of insulating, then everyone asks, 'we, what kind of negotiation is going on?' When you do not see that this proposal instead of being rejected on the spot by saying to them - and I will say it to the people - 'the last one', and instead we get to the point where the Prime Minister is calling Kyriakos Mitstotakis to ask him: 'Kyriakos, how do you like the Macedonian of Iliden?', then you really understand what negotiation is going on and what you have to expect to carry. Ladies and gentlemen, to understand how extreme it is, Mr Vorides, the "Illinden Macedonia" is, as if we were going and called them "Lords, we have a proposal...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u204	Indeed, because you have said the same argument four times.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u205	It's just, Mr. President, you know...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u206	You've been doing great theatrical things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, we are not two-speed parliamentarians. Yesterday's 11 minutes were spoken, and today's will be 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u208	And three and four, Mr. Lightla. You've been here for so many years and you know. Sometimes like this, anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u209	Consider, Mr Vorides, that we should go and tell them "We have a proposal: a complex name with a geographical designation next to Macedonia". Would they take us seriously? But we got them. Because Iliden is so extreme. We took them seriously, and we talked about it. Now Mr Kammenos tells us - and I will close - that he does not support the agreement, but supports the government. But, Minister, this is not a sensitive social issue. This is a major national issue and you cannot go beyond it, as you have so far done as a secondary one. Indeed, if Mr Kammenos was not Minister, and he was a mere Member of the Opposition, could you give the Prime Minister permission to go to the press tomorrow to vote on this? Not one in a million! To understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u210	Please, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u211	They've all figured out how important the ministerial chair is. In Mr. Kammenos's commendable painting, at the top is the ministerial chair. You're sad, you've sold out everything for a few more months of power.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u213	I'm done saying that. Things are simple. Today we are mixed with our conscience. Anyone who believes that this agreement, which will be signed on Sunday at the Prespes, undermines our national interests today has the opportunity to overthrow it. If it does not, it simply supports and gives Mr Tsipras the authority to commit the country to a bad agreement. Finally, as far as... Too bad in shoe soles all these years!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u214	Thank you. You have said three times 'final'. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u215	Finally, one second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Lightla, no, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u217	As for the Vice-Presidents - and I do not mean ANELs or SYRIZA - to know that if they do not vote for the proposal, they simply vote for a vote of confidence in this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, we are all experienced and experienced so that in this time we can say what we have to say. Previously, they intervened with the dear Mr. Fotella, because he said three times about Ilinden's phone, theatrical. It was half your time. In that sense, I told you so that we could get to know each other. Let's get the arguments together.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Amanatidis, we're not having a conversation about Iliden now at lunch.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u221	I don't want to say about what Mr. Lightlas said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u222	What exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u223	It's the last intervention I'm going to make, because I'm going to blame people who I think are wrong. It has nothing to do with the positioning. Allow me for a minute. I won't talk any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u224	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u225	My position is related to what has been said and I hear from locations, in relation to secret diplomacy and that no one has negotiated. For the first time, for the last six to seven months, with the involvement of all the services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Legal Council, scientists and teachers has become a coordinate negotiation. I say this in order not to unfair the diplomatic body, the competent agencies of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and all those involved in the office of Prime Minister in these negotiations. I would expect more respect for the people who really gave their time and experience and their knowledge of it. The last one is this. Don't use any arguments that can turn you around. Look what Mr. Gruevski said. "In 2009, when they gave us a better deal, we didn't get it." Like his argument, the corresponding guy from there, who says that time is on FYROM's side and you're wrongly making a deal. You are saying exactly the same arguments. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u226	Thank you. Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. ‘What do they know of England that only England knows?’. What do they know about England, who only know England? It's a lyric by William Blake, one of the most famous lyrics in British poetry, who practically a man who loved Britain, England, through his poems and paintings, says that if you know your country, you need to know other countries and other cultures and other traditions and other stories and you can get into others' shoes. The tragedy is that the modern British forgot that saying, this lyric, and that's why they have Brexit in front and think that with their history, Queen Elizabeth I, Nelson, Wellington, the empire of soccer shirts in favour of England, the two world wars and a world cup, with them they can deal with the future. The illusion of majesty, which can analyse the past in a way, but has nothing to say about the present and the future. Nothing. And Britain is facing an economic, social, regional crisis. The question of Ireland, which we have been through for many years, resurfaces. Because they forgot what George Bernard Seo said, that it is a barbaric man who thinks the traditions of his tribe and island are also laws of nature. But it is a very difficult thing to be barbaric in a society and an economy that is so uncertain. And yet, from ancient Greece to modern thought through Scots' enlightenment, there is a huge tradition, philosophical, literary, that we enter into the shoes of others. The ancient theatre in Greece was not only a theatre - and apologies, Lydia, if I enter your fields - where they went and watched, but it was a social event, a public space. Through the "Press" of Aischulus the people who had fought five, ten years ago - and the author and those who heard it - for the Persians as heroes, as people for whom we must have admiration. Have the modern Greeks forgotten this when the majority of the CCU say that orthodox is so vulnerable that, if they hear about another religion, they will lose their faith? Do modern Greeks have to go back to it? Should they, however, and listen to the Scots of enlightenment who spoke of sympathy, who spoke of empathy? Because everyone knows - and especially from this wing - about Adam Smith, who says about 'the Rich of the Nations'. But they have forgotten his other book, which is "The Theory of Ethics", where it says that no society can function and no country can live unless it enters the shoes of others to understand. Do we know anything about FYROM and northern Macedonia? Do we know? Have we studied what their per capita income is right now or at least the last year I have data, in 2016? Do we know that it's 4,600 per capita income, when our own year was 17,400, four times more? Do you know how much FYROM's GDP is? It's 10 billion. So, much less of the buffer, the pillow we're going to try to have on June 21st. It's 10 billion. We're talking about this country. We're not talking about another country. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And do we know what Mr. Xydakis analysed so well yesterday about this country's huge problems? The differences between Albanians and Slavs? The wars they've been through? The attacks they have? Turkey's efforts to get in there? Have we analyzed these? Is this part of this conversation? I know from the Encyclopedia of my grandfather's Eleftherodakis, who is in the 1920s, that there is a map of Greece and our northern neighbours. And there is a very big word "Macedonia", which starts from Greece and goes down. I cannot understand the language of Macedonian, which comes from the Slavic language family, how, as we have heard in this Chamber, there is, in the 1950s, no such language after the 1970s, to exist again and now the juncture is saying that this language does not exist. So, in the breaks that do not exist - why is the political situation in Greece not appropriate - these people go to a monastery where they have taken an oath of silence until the Greek circumstances become again and can speak? What exactly do you say about this country? But politics is important. And the juncture is important. But it is a time when in Europe we have the clouds of nationalism and of the war that we have in the Balkans, where Greece is trying to be part of the solution and not part of the problem. Have you read the article worldwide that Europe can be reinstated under Vaimaris if we do not face poverty, if we do not deal with regional disparities, if we do not try to have a relationship between development, solidarity and cooperation, as Mr Drasakis and Mr Stathakis have analysed? Does the situation in Germany not scare you, where two right-wing parties fight for immigrants? Doesn't it scare you that the Italian country doesn't want to accept a ship from Africa? Aren't you worried about Brexit? Do you not worry that the Eurozone can collapse and we will not return to national states with justice, but will we be back in the 1930s and nationalisms and what we have lived for sixty and seventy years ago? I say that Greece should be part of the solution rather than of the problem. I will not repeat that Greece in Europe is just trying to be part of the solution, with our discussions and interventions for the future of the Eurozone. I will not say again what I said about our Greek programme, that it is trying to bring stability to Greece and the country. Besides, I don't have to repeat it myself. Yesterday you heard from Dombrovskis, you heard from Klaus Reglin that there is no new program, there are no new conditions and conditions, no mortgages. What we were saying was heard from the most official lips. All I said was a footnote to what the Prime Minister told the ERT that we want a solution that respects the values of the other. It is not enforceable, as I hear you want to say. It's a deal. It looks forward to cooperation and development. He understands what Bismarck said that any crisis is not solved in a way that everyone understands themselves, just not solved. And I'm finishing what I started: What do those who know about Greece only know about Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Minister. Mr Karaoglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a Macedonian and north-easter Member of Parliament, I firmly believe that it is time in this Chamber to count all of us and, at the same time, to measure ourselves with our history and conscience. It is time for each of us to consider the debt we owe to our country and choose whether we will become the useful submissives of the grey and strange times that we are experiencing or whether we respect the oath we have given, as members of the National Representation, by our vote for the national interest, without as well as as as an asterisk. The motion of censure we tabled as a New Democracy is our responsibility and our duty towards the country for two reasons. The first is that this parliamentary procedure gives us the only chance to discuss this Chamber on Skopje, since until now the government has exercised secret diplomacy and has kept political parties from the Greek Parliament in the dark. The second reason is that, as a side of responsibility, we must stand up and prevent a bad agreement or, to be precise, a criminal agreement, an unacceptable national retreat. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not hide behind our finger. Voting against the vote of censure means, in fact, giving out the name of Macedonia, the one and only Greek Macedonia. A vote of confidence in the government means, in fact, a vote of confidence in your chairs, a vote which automatically makes you accountable to millions of Macedonians, millions of north-easters, millions of Greeks who are struggling with this process, waiting for us to safeguard our own unnegotiable national funds. Why did you, ladies and gentlemen, give hands with Zafe without asking the Greek people? It is politically unreasonable, but also institutional acronym for the Prime Minister to believe that he has the vote of confidence in the House, because this criminal agreement will also be voted for by the Greek Independent Party, while at the same time saying how he disagrees in its essence. This is because the arithmetic majority of the House is not expressing the referendum, because there is no doubt that the debate that is under way has a referendum. Things are very simple and it's time for Mr. Burned to be revealed. And with the ranger and the officer, he can't do it. And a patriot and co-pilot of a government that sells our Macedonia cannot. Ladies and gentlemen of the ANELs - which you are certainly hiding because there is no one in the House - it is time for the masks to fall. The lies are over. Now you'll be exposed. It will be revealed if you have principles, values and ideals or if all you care about is being kept in your authority and chairs. So let us not hide behind the word-in-the-language 'Severna Macedonija'. Like also, it is funny to claim that this agreement eliminates alpha-corruption references to the Skopje Constitution when you accept the basic vehicle of their insulating that is the name, ethnicity and language. Unfortunately, you have been sitting on the negotiating table in terms of an Oriental bazaar and you have not started by any authority, reflecting the national red lines. That is why I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, at the very last hour, to consider the burden of responsibility and to remember that the history of our Macedonia is not sold off with a signature. After all, we all know that in the genetic code, in the Greek DNA, the words "patriotism" and "decent" are identical concepts. So you obey the moral laws of the country rather than the laws of personal interest and do not rush to misinterpret the word 'patriotism' that I used a few seconds ago. "Patriotism" is to unite and not to divide Greeks. "Patriotism" means democracy. "Patriotism" is the honor and faith in the struggles of our ancestors, so that today our freedom is afflicted. "Patriotism" means knowing the first lesson of democracy that is to listen and respect the opinion of others, how much more so when it is the vast majority of an entire people has roared that Macedonia is one and it is Greek. "Patriotism" is to work for the growth and prosperity of your people and the economic level. Finally - because, unfortunately, Mr President, time is not enough - I think it is time for us to remember the lyrics of our great poet Kostis Palamas - "We owe those who came, they will come, they will pass. Judges will be tried by the unborn, the dead." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u230	Thank you very much Mr Karaoglu. I would ask Mr. Kastoris to take the floor and immediately thereafter Mr. Tragakis follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, with respect to the rest of the speakers' time and after such an exhaustive debate - almost a hundred colleagues have spoken up to now - I omit this whole part of the history, culture, but also the language of my own particular country of Macedonia and I will speak only of the essence of the motion of censure tabled by the New Democracy. Listen, Mr. Stamatis, one answer. I dedicate my speech to you. You're worried about the whole world that's been at the rally, watching us, protesting, etc. That is about what you said in your speech about the protesting world and caring about it. I can understand a well-meaning citizen who is protesting because he thinks his history, his culture, his heritage - cultural and historical - is at stake by certain neighbours called 'Macedonians'. I can justify ignorance of history to some well-meaning citizens who call Macedonia as a political geography. I can even forgive some good, good citizens who are drawn from the passion of a heirous crowd may even call us under this climate. However, I cannot forgive those who know history - even if it was written before they were born, Mr Kumucaco - and they played their part in this story in one way or another. I cannot forgive those with full knowledge and awareness who erase and distort pieces of history when they do not serve their personal interests. I cannot forgive those who, with their full stubbornness and full knowledge of the risks, are trying to resurrect storms of intolerance to a people who have paid dearly in the past similar sports. Not that I don't understand them, not that I don't understand the reasons that lead them to such supranationalist rhetoric, indifferent to the monsters they give birth to. You don't have to dig deep to find those reasons. They're as obvious as they don't hide, as deep as you put them, with whatever you do and cover them up. I understand they're having trouble digging that some laundrymen -- aren't you telling us? -, cockroaches, Indians suddenly came with a people's mandate to govern this country, which you thought you had a hereditary right to rule inside. They find it difficult to digest that these unwashed ones finally managed, despite the tripods, not only to reach our day, but to count a few more days to come out of the memorials, with very specific policies. They are bound to believe that their achievements, that is, their complexity, corruption, social darninism, their racism are tearing down one. They are replaced by transparency, by dignity, by democracy, by solidarity. They are unable to believe that the law sting can catch them, for things that they consider to be self-evident and practical, such as the plundering of the state, the rampant of European funds, the service of relatives and friends. They cannot digest that the days of abundance have come to their end, and they are far away from those who wait to come. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully understand the confusion that led the Critical Opposition to table a motion of censure. It's not their patriotism that moves them. They know, and let them not admit, that the deal we had is the best we could achieve. Your party friends confess to it, neighbors. It's the anguish they have what moves them. It's anguish that history passes them without taking them into consideration. They have anguish because history is now written by politicians and politicians forming a different future, a future that leaves behind all the paths of the past, a future built in terms of justice, fair development, democracy, stability, peace and cooperation with the peoples and above all with our neighbours. A future like this is worth living. If the New Democracy considers that it cannot fit into such a future, that it cannot go hand in hand with such a future, it is its own problem. It's not our fault. It's not her society. Whatever kind of expatriation horns he's not gonna be able to turn the story back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u232	Mr. President, excellent! You spoke 4,4 minutes. Very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u233	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u234	He didn't remind you, Mr. Stamatis. For God's sake! Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u235	Mr President, I'm sorry. Listen to me. My colleague has dedicated me a whole speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u236	I'm fine! It enhances the quality of your own intervention. That's not a matter. Apparently...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u237	I apologize, but I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u238	What didn't you understand? You won't have a dialogue right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u239	What you said, Mr Colleague, is you tell a Member who in 1993, in order to defend his positions, resigned from parliamentary status. You don't have the moral stature!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u240	Okay. I told you before. Leave moral statures and, more generally, such references. He didn't tell you that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u241	He gave me a whole dedication.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u242	The President has the floor, Mr Tragakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u243	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall speak for a little while. We are talking about the motion of censure against the entire government we have tabled as a Qualified Opposition to highlight in the most emphatic way the lack of political legitimacy of the government to sign an agreement on Skopje. We have tabled a motion of censure to reveal the lies of the government, the retreats and gray zones contained in this agreement that Mr Tsipras is preparing to sign. The content of the agreement itself, the fact that it is a problematic agreement, is a matter. The way in which the government and Mr Tsipras personally handled a national issue is another as important, if not more important, issue. Because all this time we have witnessed the universal deception of democracy and provocative defiance of institutions. What happened in the negotiation has no precedent in the country's political history. For the first time, a Prime Minister is indulging such an important agreement on our national interests, ignoring provocatively and arrogantly the Civic Opposition and all of the country's parliamentary forces. He didn't want to seek consent. He didn't want to form a national line. He did not even feel the need to inform the House of Greeks and Greeks, as he had to. It has been negotiated for months in secret, secretly, and has handled a national issue in a disgusting manner and in terms of internal micropolitical. We have reached the point where the government is threatening the Opposition with the selective declassification of secret documents from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These are incomprehensible things. This is an absolute collapse of institutions. They're incomprehensible! And if you think that in politics it's not so much the method, but the substance, you're wrong. The essence of democracy is the institutions. The famous erga omnes, which has been the position of Greece since 2008, has been questioned by this Agreement. It turned out that Mr. Tsipras lied during the proclamation when he spoke about using the new name of Skopje erga omnes. In relation to ethnicity, this is "Macedonian-Citizen of the Republic of Northern Macedonia". The agreement states that this will be indicated in all travel documents. It is also stated that the official language will be Macedonian, black, without any explanation. All official documents will write Macedonian as an official language. According to the decision of the Appeals Court, which was unanimously ratified by the Marios Ice in 2009, where the Prime Minister's legal counsel also participated, Mrs Thanos concludes with a detailed statement that there is no Macedonian nation, so neither Macedonian ethnicity nor Macedonian culture for Skopje nor Macedonian language. That is what the decision of the Ice Bay Plenary is about. The second lie is this. The Prime Minister during the proclamation said the Skopje agreed to rename their country to the Republic of Severna Macedonija, namely, in our language, in the Republic of Northern Macedonia. However, in the agreement submitted, both in English and in the Greek text, there is no reference to Severna Macedonija. Aluterism would only be cancelled if this term existed was used. Macedonianism is the national idea of the Macedonians, the fantasy of the divided Macedonian country. The name of citizenship - citizenship in all states is always a derivative of the state name. The citizens of Northern Macedonia should therefore be called the North-Macedonians. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's agreement is a bad agreement. It is the name of northern Macedonia, it is the gray and controversial erga omnes, it is the recognition of Macedonian national identity and language, which constitute a retreat of Greece. The agreement, apart from being problematic, is also binding on the future. Greece agrees with Macedonia's invitation to join the two organisations, the United Nations and NATO, with all loose ends open. The procedures will be launched and we all understand very well that their interruption or reversal will be difficult to achieve. There's one more thing. There is the provocative mockery of the Greek people by the ANELs, the Independent Greeks, who remain in the government. Their decision - while disagreeing with a major nationally important government option - to remain in the government and to support it in the House, is not only anti-parliamentary, but also offensive to citizens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u244	I know, but I'm in trouble.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u245	We all have problems. For all these reasons, the New Democracy has tabled a motion of censure to the government because it does not have the political legitimacy to bring the nationally important agreement to the country. I'm going to report to you yesterday's poll, so you know where you're headed. 80% of the Greeks are against the agreement. So you're only addressing 20%. So you understand who you are addressing when 80% of the Greeks are against the agreement. And since the vote will be roll-call, each of us will say 'yes' or 'no'. You will say 'no' to the motion of censure, but you will say 'yes' to the agreement. But then it'll be too late. As you changed it in the referendum in 2015, you will not be able to do it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u246	Thank you. Mr Antoniadis has the floor, then Mr Giakoumatos and then Mr Ballis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are giving the mother of the fighting. It is perhaps one of the two most important meetings in three and a half years that we are MPs. Following the announcement of the agreement between Greece and Skopje, a so-called negotiation between Mr Tsipras and Mr Zaev fell. They did how they negotiated and the people did how they believed them. In support of what I say, I say to you, what programming statements Mr Tsipras mentioned his intention to deal with Skopje? In the 2015, 2016, 2017 or 2018 programming statements? Nowhere. Where did the need suddenly arise? It was simply found that the Government of willing persons would implement a ready-made plan, after a few months have been given to it so that the agreement could be made more vulnerable to the people through the so-called negotiations. I would like to give you the headlines of the newspaper "THE PONTIKI", which makes the implementation by the Government of State Department, the CIA and the American plans for the Balkans very well. It's from the bottom of the left and it tells the truth the way it is. And if Mr Amanatidis insists that the agreement is a negotiation of their own, then we will tell them: stop negotiating because you have burned us with the negotiations you have made at times. And to Mr Tsakalotos: With poems and songs, problems are not solved, otherwise you would be the most successful Minister of Finance and the misery of the economy show the opposite. Friends and friends, the Prime Minister spoke about a historic moment. Historical time is the position of Members today who, by their vote, will either ratify the painful agreement that has not been returned. To Mr Kotzias: Kotzias has taken great time and after the Macedonian wants to solve the Albanian, perhaps both the Cyprus and the Palestinians. Tell him to solve Greeks first because in yesterday's statements Mr Tsavosoglu said he would not throw a bird into the Aegean unless the Turks approve it. There you became Greece with your successful foreign policy. In two parts of the agreement, I will only stand by because most of them have been thoroughly analysed. The issue of the first recognition of what was a red line for all governments, the existence of Macedonian language and Macedonian identity. They are the ones that effectively cancel the content of the geographical determination in the name of FYROM. Where's the Severna Makedonija? Nowhere. Where is the erga omnes, when the only acronym, which will enter the "N" for Macedonia, is for car plates? As is clear from the above, we are giving the cash approval of entry to NATO and the European Union and we have put in instalments the removal of expansionist dispositions. Friends and friends, the removal of expansionist dispositions should not have been a negotiating condition, it should have been a prerequisite for us to enter the dialogue. First you remove the expansionist moods and then you come and discuss whatever you want. I am standing in a last article of the agreement, Article 20(9). Here's what he says, ladies and gentlemen. No amendment to this Agreement contained in Article 1.3 and 1.4 shall be permitted. So, 1.3 and 1.4 relate to Macedonian language and Macedonian identity. All the rest can be discussed. These two are guaranteed. That's what's gonna happen with this deal. It's the finest letter. Can there be no change in this? That is what we are voting on today. Friends and friends, to conclude, Mr. Tsipras for the signing of this bad and harmful agreement for Greece between FYROM and FYROM chose the Florina Prespecies, my homeland, Florina of the symbolisms where the curtain of the civil war fell, where the last battle was fought. It should be noted that there should be a huge monument of national reconciliation, but also a museum that reminds of the negative conflicts of civil conflict and the positive understanding, at least, on major issues such as national ones. I would like to say a few words about ANELs, because we are seeing unprecedented political customs. Is there a more serious issue than that to argue? No one wants the government to fall and take power in this way. But in no case, Mr. Cammene, you can't walk through the back door and do what you don't understand. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done. They've found a government of willing men to pass the Skopje. They found a government of willingly to create a series of new military bases in Alexandroupolis and new bases on the islands with compensation for antidotes and crumbs. Friends and friends, you will apologise for new memorandums, new pension cuts and wages, unemployment and recession. You will apologise for the poor solution to Macedonian and selling, you will apologise for receiving Greece as the sovereign state and handing it over as a colony. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u248	Thank you very much. I have heard the 'colonial', but last and I have become a little disorganized. Mr. Giakoumatos, Mr. Arvanitides and then Mr. Ballis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u249	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u250	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u251	First of all, Mr. Stamatis and then Mr. Athanasios referred to an irrevocable decision of the Ice Arena, which they consider to facilitate their arguments. This is where the proverb “swallowed by his hair is caught to save him”. And I'm talking about drowning, because here we have a shipwreck of arguments. The Ice Bay judgment refers to an irrelevant subject, rather than to a matter that strengthens the Government's arguments. It's referred to...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u252	It is addressed to Mr. Stamatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u253	Will you let the Minister speak? A lot of immunity fell in here. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u254	Mr President, Mr Stamatis is not here. He has to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u255	Mr. Bourra, please. An issue has been raised...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u256	He's not there. It can't be me...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u257	Mr Bourrai, we are all present in this House whether we are in the Chamber or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u258	He mentioned himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u259	You're not watching. Mr Bourrai, it is clear that on an issue that has been raised today by the press for a decision and in which two - three colleagues have been mentioned this morning, the Deputy Minister for Justice felt the need to give clarification. What's cleanest in this process? There's no sign of personnel. We are all present whether we are in the Chamber or in our offices and are watching. Then another colleague may reply to him. Please, Mr. Papagelopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u260	To refer to the publications not to faces.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u261	It's not personal for Mr. Stamatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u262	He referred to faces and not to publications.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u263	It was mentioned to say that they raised the issue, nothing else. Please. Come on, Mr. Papagelopoulos. Tell me about the report in person.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u264	I would point out that I am referring to the decision that was mentioned during today's sitting. The decision, therefore, to remove any misunderstanding, refers to the existence of a non-Macedonian minority. That's what it says. All the rest of it is bypassing thoughts. In addition, I want to say that foreign policy...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u265	You won't lie to us! The decision is here and we'll recognize it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u266	You're ten more to talk later. Please, you won't be doing this! Mr. Voridis, please. There are twelve speakers from your resignation. Immediately afterwards, you will speak of the decision. You won't censor this government. It's unacceptable. No one ever did to you when you were here. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u267	To share this decision with Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u268	Give me the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u269	We'll see. There is not even an incidental question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u270	Give me the floor after I answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u271	Please. Why so nervous? Is something wrong? Is something wrong? Has something happened? The Minister of Justice spoke. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u272	Let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u273	Yeah, but you didn't let him finish. You're creating the episode. They say we're in conflict with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u274	Of course, let's finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u275	Come on, Mr. Papagelopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u276	In addition, I would like to remind you that in our legal system, the Court of Justice has jurisdiction over foreign policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u277	What did he say now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u278	Everything he said was recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u279	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u280	Here, Mr Voridis, for just a minute, so that if there is a counter-compensation for what you say, Mr Papagelopoulos will be present to clarify it. Come on, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u281	Sure. Reading from the 1448/2009 judgment of the Ice Arena. We are told by the Minister that the only thing she says is that there is no Macedonian minority. I read: "Macedonia, since ancient times, has been a term of historical and geographical and not ethnic. The Macedonians are not, nor were they, in the recent and endless past, a particular ethnic formation. Macedonians are always called the inhabitants of the old region of Greece...” [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Why don't you read this, Minister? Do you like the deception?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u282	You're welcome, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u283	It also has references for language, it also has references for ethnicity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u284	It's a Ice Arrow decision! There's a document, there's a decision!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u285	Mr. Georgiod, are you now mad? I don't understand. Are you angry? Why? Easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u287	The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, George Katrugalos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u288	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u289	Mr. Xydakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u290	We can't change it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u291	Please, Mr. Georgioda. If the matter had been solved three days ago and we didn't all know it, we wouldn't have spoken for three days. Here you go, Mr. Catrugale.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed as the President of Parliament has just said. If we had a decision that was irrevocable to the Ice Bay that closed the matter, why not make it an executioner, send it to Skopje and no longer have to negotiate? The Marios Ice, ladies and gentlemen, had to solve a legal issue alone, whether or not it was legal or not to register a club in the respective books of the courtroom. He didn't have the power to examine any foreign policy issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u293	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u294	Ladies and gentlemen, to God! Do you know what you're saying? That the courts should decide on history and foreign policy, that is, not just to resolve the issues of negotiation...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u295	Why are you getting mad? What kind of nervousness is that? Looks like something's going on. Leave something interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u296	Are those a few things he says?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u297	You made a motion of censure days ago. Mr. Georgioda, don't be mad. We'll vote in a few hours, and after that, you'll know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u298	...to understand what we're talking about!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u299	Come on! You get used to yelling.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u300	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u301	Mr. Georgiod, are you a prisoner? I'm telling you. Are you a ruler in the Hall? Please! Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u302	I just want to finish my thoughts. There cannot be irrevocable judicial decisions on foreign policy. They can't exist for history. It is like saying - the end of totalitarianism - that a state body could decide on historical differences.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u303	Is that what Mr. Papagelopoulos said?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u304	Mr. Voridis, let go. There could be a conflict and you could reveal it. Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u305	Let that and in general alone continue to falsify and try to distort the content of the treaty that at no point speaks of "Macedonian ethnicity" or "Macedonian nation". With double counterfeiting, therefore, you have tried to set up a point of order. I must say, however, that you have nevertheless given me an experience. I was listening to the EKOF climate, listening to the way in which your resignation put forward legitimate arguments in the past, but in a way that I was not used to be heard in the House. I would therefore ask you, if you would like to respect your history, to find better examples.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u306	Thank you. Good. He's been given advice! Please, Mr Yakumato, you have the floor and we are very sorry that this incident has arisen. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u307	Mr President, I would like to re-establish something that has been heard here by a SYRIZA MEP and it has been disgraceful to me. He said they call SYRIZA MPs laundry, dirty and socks. I am surprised that in the political culture of New Democracy such words do not exist. I'm saying that to make things clear. I said that as an opinion of the person who said it. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been given the floor to speak for one single reason. I would like my opinion to be recorded on this issue, because it may be necessary - I hope it will not be necessary - for the story to judge us all and we must take a position. Our children, our grandchildren, our new generations will tell this historic meeting what Yakoumatos said, what the other one said. Do we have the right, ladies and gentlemen? They are all those who tremble their bones, who have fought for our Macedonia, who have spilled rivers of blood, countless lives have been lost, and families have been destroyed. Have we forgotten? Did we forget what happened? From Crete, the Cretans, the Kefalonites and from all over Greece went and left their bones to have Macedonia today. I'll tell you a story just to record a few names in the House. I'll say women from Macedonian women. Teacher Velika Triku, a partner of Iona Dragoumi, was brutally murdered. Catherine Hadjigeorgiou, Lili Vlachos, Angeliki Philippidou and thousands of women gave their lives together with Paul Mela, Telos Agra, Karavangellis and Iona Dragoumi. These are all who kept Hellenism and Macedonia alive. So, do we now have the right for the Prime Minister to go on Sunday and sign this shameful agreement? The question is simple: between us now - does all Greece know about it - do you have a parliamentary majority? Do you have 151 according to the professed? The report is with the ANELs. There is no way, Mr President, for this agreement to be signed. Everything else is terraces. Of course, you have a parliamentary majority for 151 with Mr Kammenos and the ANELs. Second, do you think you have the popular acceptance? Mr. Tragakis told you that 80% is against the agreement. Do you have one? And if you have, then be Rhodes, behold the elections. You have a lot of difference with the people. You're accusing us that for 75 years a topic was ponding. Have you forgotten about the great patriot, Macedonian, ethnic ruler, Konstantinos Karamanlis, and the statement he made with the tear at the airport of Thessaloniki that Macedonia is one and that is Greek? Did you forget? Did you forget Andrew Papandreou, who would never sign such a deal, and Constantine Mitsotakis, who would never give his consent? So we're actually going. What do we disagree with? Article 1 paragraph b: Citizenship of Macedonia, citizen of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, namely Macedonian, Macedonian! Let's go to paragraph c: Official language the Macedonian language. That's what you sign. Of course, you also put underneath an asterisk that "the cultural heritage of antiquity", but the present and the future are destroying it where you refer to it. It's wrong. With the great gaps that exist today, there will not be three days to speak about this shameful agreement. But I'll tell you something. The good god of Greece has protected this country for thousands of years. With barbarians and a thousand enemies, we stand up. That is why I believe that this agreement will never be implemented. And you should know that Macedonia was, is and will be Greek, whoever is being slain and whoever is being slain. Speaking of Mirivilis - Mr Minister Mirivilis likes it - I will answer Kostis Palamas: "Knowledges, hearts, who are Greeks, that you are, don't forget, you are not one of your hands alone, no. You owe to those who came, they pass, they will come and pass. We will be tried by judges, by the unborn, by the dead.' That's the reality, gentlemen of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u308	Thank you very much. Thank you for the time, Mr President. As an expert, you helped the process. Mr Arvanitides has the floor and then Mr Balis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u309	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether Mr Tsipras will receive the Nobel Peace Prize or will lose it from Mr Trump and Mr Kim Yong Eun, but it is certain that he could receive the Nobel political tactics, disorientation and mockery if there was one. Overall, the government is entitled to a share in such a Nobel political tactics and mockery. You have managed, with a unique mask, to vote in the medium term and to discuss the scorpion. An agreement that, unfortunately, you did not seek to reach national agreement and consensus, but you preferred to negotiate on your own and now you are asking for support. We recognise that it is in the country's interest to resolve the issue of the name, but not to resolve it, as - as in the case of micro-party settlements, which are sowing a civil-war climate in the country. It seems that we have an agreement at doses and with much if and if so. Such an agreement poses a risk that it will never be completed as it began. It also seems to be a drug-drug agreement with gray zones for Greece. The risk may be that we will gradually settle matters for the other side and we will simply express our displeasure if something is not observed. The most important thing is that the implementation of the agreement is not dependent on Greece, but mainly on the actions of the neighbouring country. You say it's erga omnes, but it's not. You call them Macedonians, but they're not. We don't want another interim agreement. We want a final package agreement. Personally, and as far as I am concerned, I am saying 'no' to an agreement which recognises an ethnicity, which recognises nonexistent rights of nationality and language, that is, a national identity to a people who do not have the right to it. This agreement, as you bring it, is not a viable solution that ensures national interests. We do not have a clear agreement, as we will not have a clear exit from the memoranda. It's the government's settlements that lead everything. You bring them all in doses and in time. Why? To shut up in the hands of others. All are subject to the micro-party tactics of the two co-pilots, who mock the Greek people. National issues, amendments, reductions, commitments for 19, 20 and 21. What should one say first, and how much can all of this stand in reason? Increasing the ENPIA, abolishing the ENPIA. Increase in pensions, reduction in pensions. Toll reduction, toll increase. However, everything is explained by SYRIZA - ANEL with chair and SYRIZA - ANEL without chair. You have just voted for the fourth memorandum, which is the first of which we do not get a single euro, and you insist that growth will come in this way. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that although people are tired of numbers and numbers, I personally want to refer to numbers that mark the times of SYRIZA - ANEL. Often historical times are sometimes marked and characterized by numbers. Such was, for example, the era of 1-1-4 in Greece, which referred to the famous article of the Constitution. Your time will therefore be marked by numbers 17, 109, 1 and 7. I explain: 17 hours in the Prime Minister's negotiation, 109 is the article in the fourth memorandum on mortgageing all the state's assets for many next generations and 1 and 7 are the articles of the agreement. Especially 7 opens the door to practice for a double name. So the 17, 109, 1 and 7 will give the signal of the proud negotiation of SYRIZA - ANEL. It is time, ladies and gentlemen, to end this time. The only way is for elections here and now to change political links with a leading role in our own party, to determine post-election developments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u310	Mr Ballis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u311	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the words 'the thief's voice' began his speech last night, Thessalonica's colleague, Kostas Zouraris, commenting on the proposal of distrust from the New Democracy. As he described it, I can repeat his words. In what context is this motion of censure being tabled? While there is an ongoing investigation of the health scandals, while fresh impressions from what has been revealed in this Chamber about the 'NOVARTIS scandal', are being continued as a tail from the findings of the Committee of Inquiry on the scandalous loans to parties and media, but above all in what environment? In the fact that we are already on the way to finish with the memorials, to take off the dolphin or to lighten the debt dolphin from the country's neck, so that we can draw up a different policy for society and, above all, for those who have lifted the burdens of the crisis and the burdens of the choices made by the previous governments. The objective is to cancel this course. However, this motion of censure also attempts to do something else and let us not hide our words. It attempts to blackmail a repetition of history, a repetition of the black pages of modern political history and the practices that have indelible seal of the conservative faction. But when the repetition of history is rushed, often history is avenged. Where's the bet and what's New Democracy telling us? It was typical of its second rapporteur, Mr Georgioda. That's what I mean when I say let's not hide our words. Where does he bet? At the graduation of the MPs of the government majority. With a simple word in their distance. Existion Clazumenian suffocators. Let's see the coincidences. Summer of '65 a distance throws an elected government, the summer of '93 begins to melt a apostasy that occurs shortly afterwards to cast a second elected government, summer of '18, a coincidence from the same party, with the same names leading for a third apostasy. The maintenance line attempts the third shekel of a horror movie, as usual with all the horror movies, those that have a high budget. What does the New Democracy say with this proposal of distrust of the ministerial words and the seventy-six signatures? That the government, that Tsipras, that Kotzias sold out the national issues and the name of Macedonia. Who's really called it? Those who had made Greece a part of the Balkan problem since 1991. Indicatively, the screams of some of the New Democracy party today, who accuse the government of shameful, of a treacherous agreement. However, the silences of others are rather more eloquent than the same faction of Officer Response. Is it really, they claim, a sale of the name of Northern Macedonia? Then, the name just like Macedonia, when it's recognized, what is it? When in December 1991 the EEC Council of Ministers agreed on the arrangements for imports of products from the Republic of Macedonia, so detta - but without further determination - the signature underneath was Nikos Kotzias'? And you'll say, human being is, he's gone, he'll be corrected. Yes, sir. It's been corrected a few months later. In March 1992, corrections are made to the same decision, not to the title of the agreement. The agreement is still between Greece and the Republic of Macedonia, again detta-spirit Macedonia. Kojia wasn't the signature. Was it the Catrugalo or the Amanatidis? Oh, no. I shall submit the Official Journal of the European Communities in the minutes. It is the official version in the Greek language, which includes these agreements, which I have just mentioned. It's the L 342 issue. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Simeon Ballis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I wonder, having finished: Since the Saturday night today, when you will be back from the rallys you are snatching, when you will have plunged into the sea that you are trying to rebuild one more effort of yours to throw the government down, to stop the country's course, what else will you be up to, then? But you should know and make a decision. The course of this government will continue undisturbed. Most importantly, however, the country's progress towards recovery will continue to be a pole of stability, peace, cooperation, development and creation in the Balkans, in Europe and around the world again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u312	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, nineteen children and eight of their attendants from the Orphanages of Thessaloniki "The Melissa". The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say, Mr President, that we are not responsible for what Mr Katrugalos understands, but we are responsible for what we are talking about. And when we talk about the Ice Bay decision, Mr Katrugale, we do not mean that this decision is binding on Skopje and it would be good not to hear such nonsense in the Greek Parliament. We support the fact that with this agreement, which your Minister, Mr Kotzias, will go tomorrow, to sign in Prespes, you recognise a Macedonian nation that speaks Macedonian and that is exactly what is in conflict with the Supreme Court's judgment and insults judicial authority. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The reality is the debate that needs to be done today, ladies and gentlemen, because too much has been said and I do not want to repeat myself, although I will be forced to do so - is what you are doing with this agreement. The reality is that with this agreement you agree and accept that there is a nation living in Skopje, which is a nation of Macedonians and speaks Macedonian. In particular: Article 7(3) states that, as regards the second part, namely Skopje, the terms "Macedonia" and "Macedonians" mean the territory, the language, the population, the characteristics of the population, which has its own history, culture and heritage. In short, you are clearly referring to all these components that define and consecrate a nation. That's the big problem: that's what defines the nation sociologically. And you know it very well. So what do you claim, honourable Members? That this is a good deal, that this is the best deal we could achieve. And why do you say that? Because that is how you say that the relationship between friendship between countries and cooperation relations will be improved. And I ask you this: there will be frictions from the next day, for example, regarding school books. You say that there will be a multidisciplinary committee, which will investigate the books of both Skopje and the Greek schools, that is, the books of history that the Greeks are being taught today and will try to see whether there are various anti-corrosion elements that will take them. And I ask this: what are the anti-corruption elements currently included in the Greek schools, which are taught by the Greeks, which you think should be removed? Why is the Minister of Education not speaking to tell us what the anti-Skopje anti-corruption evidence is contained in the Greek books? I would like to say this because it has not been heard: what do you say about symbols? In Article 8(1), ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, it is specifically stated that - listen, listen to what Mr Kotzias signs tomorrow - that if any of the parties, namely either the Hellenic Republic or Skopje, believe that one or more symbols, which form part of the historical or cultural heritage, are used by the other, then they will demand that the other party take appropriate corrective action. What are the symbols currently used by the Hellenic Republic, which should be changed at the request of the Skopje? Are you saying that they constitute a good deal for Greece, when you first appear, do you agree that there is a Macedonian nation at the northern border? Do you think that won't cause anything in the next decades and in the next generations of the Greeks? Do you believe in a goodness and a slightness that everything will be fine? You say that this agreement is a good deal, because it shows that Greece is in a good mood, and anyway we are not afraid of Skopje. It is a country which is very small and has neither economic nor military power. And I ask you this, Minister: what will Turkey say when it sees the Greeks as regards, as you say, a very small country? What's he gonna claim tomorrow? How will Turkey take what you are doing today? The reality is, here are the MPs in this House... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You don't have to interrupt. Here's why you'll be invited to vote for both SYRIZA and the ANELs who have disappeared. And I challenge you, ladies and gentlemen, to the ANEL Members. You said this deal shouldn't pass. You know that if this agreement is ratified tomorrow by Mr Kotzia's signature, it cannot change. And why can't it change? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Because in Article 1(4), it says that only the second part proceeds to all the things it is obliged to do - change constitutional, etc. - the first part, i.e. the Hellenic Republic, should immediately ratify this Agreement. And what if she doesn't ratify it immediately? Why didn't that sound? It is bound by Article 19(3) that those who feel that Skopje is being offended, that is to say, the other party, which believes that the Hellenic Republic is a fundamental reason for this agreement, can appeal to the International Courts. With this agreement, ladies and gentlemen, if you pass, you commit Greece for any difference with Skopje to appeal to the International Courts. That's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u314	Please, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u315	I shall conclude, Mr President. The only way, ladies and gentlemen of the ANELs, to avoid crossing this agreement, with which you do not agree, as you say, is to support the proposal of distrust of the New Democracy so that this government does not remain in power and that Mr Kotzias cannot sign this international treaty tomorrow, which will bind our children, our unborn children.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u316	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u317	You have no alibi and you can't hide from it. We invite you to consider your responsibility and support the motion of censure, which I support with all my soul and heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u318	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u319	Mr. Catrugale, can we hear another speaker? You want something?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u320	Mr President, I would like the floor because it is timely and will be for a very short time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u321	If it's something to be clarified, not controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u322	For clarification, Mr President. Mostly for reasons of pity, I would like to give you the opportunity to understand what you say about the decision of the Ice Arena.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u323	Imitus?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u324	In 2000 and 2009, Greek governments that were not ours, were PASOK and New Democracy, before the Council of Europe and in the face of Greece's condemnation of this decision by the European Court of Human Rights, they spoke of a judicial error. I am reading to you a report by Thomas Hamarberg, Commissioner for Human Rights in the Council of Europe, 19-2-2009: "The Greek Government admitted to the Council of Ministers of the European Commission in 2000 that henceforth, given the direct impact of the judgments of the Court of Justice on Greek law, the Greek courts will not fail to prevent such judicial errors, which are due to the infringement found in this case." So I'm telling you... [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] We had repeated decisions, multiple poaching.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u325	What's that date?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u326	Multiple poaching!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u327	When is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u328	On the one hand, the judgment of the Ice Bay referred only to the recognition of the Court of First Instance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u329	It's another decision. You're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u330	The decision is 2009.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u331	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u332	Secondly, you are still falsifying the meaning that does not refer to a Macedonian nation. A little modesty and respect for your own actions and violations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u333	Give him the decision. 2009 is the decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u334	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u335	Consider the decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u336	We pity you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u337	You received the paper from Mr. Cryazides. Study it. The Minister will study it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u338	I'm sorry, they're giving me a 2009 decision. And in 2015, we had another conviction. Read it, get up to date. Be ashamed of what you've done, don't be proud of yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u339	Shame on you! We do enthusiastically enthusiast you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u340	Don't you know her, Mr. Lady? How did he miss Mr. Cryazides?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u341	Good. They have exchanged the relevant information. Mr. Bagiona, you have the floor. Then Mr. Sifakis follows immediately after Mr. Vagiona. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Please be quiet. Don't argue. After Mr. Sifakis is Mr. Panagiotopoulos, Mr. Pappas will speak and then Mr. Consolas will speak. Please, Mr Bagiona, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u342	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, from five minutes to half I will devote it to the order that has to be in the House and, in particular, to the Bureau of Parliament. When we say seven minutes, we mean seven, we don't mean ten or fifteen. When we say five minutes - I dedicate to you and please from the time that is set - give two minutes, but then close the microphone. We cannot have many speed Members. They're similar and equal. I'm coming to the point. After the beautiful history of Macedonia, which Mr Kostas Tasoulas said very much, I come to where he left off. Where did he stop? It stopped in 1944, when the Federal Yugoslavia was dissolved, and then the six federal states took their names. The country of Skopje has been named "Macedonia". Mr Gligorov said: 'We are Slavs, we are not Macedonians'. And I come to everything that has been heard by various professors, various myths, various stories of Halima, and let me have that expression. I am not used to saying heavy words, such as 'feeling yours', and most of all 'prosecutors' and 'prosecutors'. It's funny when we talk about national issues. I would like to justify my participation in the request for a motion of censure, a motion of censure, which I have produced since Wednesday, because I have seen that next Sunday, namely tomorrow, we are debating Skopje and we are signing a major national issue. It is not whether VAT will be increased by one unit or two, but it is a matter that the next generations will find in front of them, because from those who are here and vote on today, when problems arise - and I hope that they will never arise - neither of us will be here. Not to say what happened after 1944, I will reach the strong basis of this government, the treaty, the veto of Bucharest. The veto of Bucharest did not fall out of heaven and was not given to us without any trouble. For nine months, then Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis and present Dora Bakoyannis worked hard. They informed the twenty-nine NATO members - most of them in the European Union - of what is happening. And what was the result? As a result, the veto was projected and, if the nomenclature is not solved, nothing can happen. What was that supposed to mean? To eliminate all the alpha-corrosion elements on the one hand and on the other hand not to speak of either language or identity or nation. These were prerequisites in 2008. We have 2018. However, you are used to the government, the very easy things that you had to do - and the Skopje in particular, to prepare and do nothing - to present them very difficult and very great successes. It is a shameful agreement that you are going to sign and you will not be responsibilities as soon as you grant Macedonia's name so without difficulty. I accept that everyone made mistakes in the past, but they offered something. The story was offered. But the Bucharest decision was particularly successful. And you come to the position of Antipopulation, if you were opposition when you said too easily “we and we” to Macedonia will have no reason to ignore it”. At the same time you say that a hundred forty countries have recognized. All the countries of the world do it, we don't recognize it! It is - I will not say criminal - very anti-national in this case without any parties being even informed, and especially the Dedicated Opposition to read at all. It was Mr Mitsotakis who was forced by the New Democracy to make the motion of distrust on the Macedonian issue, not for the government to fall, but perhaps to put a brake on the decision of the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister not to sign this agreement. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The following is followed by Mr Sifakis and, as I have said, Mr Panayotopoulos, then by Minister Papapas and Mr Consolas. Here, Mr. Sifakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u344	When, ladies and gentlemen, two months ago, I was in the Netherlands, where my son is studying, I was asked by someone 'Where are you from?' I told him "From Greece, from Macedonia". He looked at me a little bit. It tells you "from Greece or Macedonia"? That is exactly what we want to solve, ladies and gentlemen. That is exactly what I feel the need to help solve it. And the Tsipras - Zaev agreement manages to deal with this problem with respect for the history, dignity of the two peoples and advantageously for the country. We want to solve a problem that they created with their inability to solve on time at the time of the break-up of Yugoslavia, when the name of the new states that came up was laid down. I am talking about the fact that today we are being blamed and denounced and again chooses to restore the national division of the period 1991-1993. As a Pella MEP, the great Alexander and feeling my particular responsibility in this respect, I would like to assure the citizens who have sent me here, the citizens of Macedonia, Pella, who have been under attack from nationalism and patriotism in recent years and, of course, the whole of the country, that this agreement ensures our national interests by taking back our history and culture. Can anyone seriously claim that this agreement is not patriotic, beneficial to the country? On the basis of what has been analysed in writing by various colleagues - and I do not have time to mention now - what should be said first? Obviously the gentlemen of the New Democracy - and other wings - prefer not to solve the issue. They prefer to continue to exist today. The policy followed by the governments over the last three decades in particular has given Turkey a way to infiltrate both politically and economically in the neighbouring country, instead of helping our country become a hegemony in all the Balkans, through the development of relations between friendship and cooperation and extensive economic trade. There are indeed important economic transactions, mainly from private Greek companies in the neighbouring country. However, these transactions could have been much greater if the national issue had been resolved on time when the single Yugoslavia was dismantled. Our neighbouring country, like all the Balkan countries, is potential markets for rural, tourist and cultural products, for transferring know-how and for businesses from all regions, especially Macedonia. The resolution of the national theme creates conditions of friendship and cooperation, as is appropriate in our country as a force for stability and peace, a pillar of co-development and creation. What patriot - especially from our own regions, Macedonia - does he not understand that by failing to resolve the problem we risk having just above us major nationalisms, such as Albania and Bulgaria or both? What good Greek does not understand that the stability of this country and its development with relationships of friendship and cooperation with us are beneficial to our national interests? But what is the truth, ladies and gentlemen? There are some here, but also outside the House, who want national issues never to be solved, because in their preservation they are based on their existence, they support themselves, their parties, the various organizations, which promote the perpetuation of extremism, nationalism and patriotism. It is a huge responsibility, gentlemen of the New Democracy, to patronize professional nationalists and patriots, who facilitated them to live and grow by facilitating the hatching of the snake's egg - an episode of his extreme, hideous face yesterday - only to avoid your great inner-party problems and to expect you to gain supposedly temporary party benefits. The agreement moves under the 1913 Bucharest Treaty after the Balkan wars, a treaty which is obviously impossible to revise, because it will open the door to other revisions that we do not even want to hear. I call on my fellow citizens in Macedonia to isolate the traders of patriotism. To isolate all these mayors, I would say, some of whom arrive at an extreme point of undemocraticism and recital of arrogance and arbitraryness, asking for our credentials to approve whether we will visit or whether we will remain in our areas, whether we disagree with their views, and others who hang in the city halls arbitrarily, without any decision of the municipal councils. I call on my fellow citizens to trust people who have proved that they have nothing to do with stealing, grabbing, plagiarism, complication, corruption. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Second minute, Mr President. To close the door to those who hypocritically try to save themselves from the scandals, whether “NOVARTIS”, CEDEFOP, equipment, those who gave a gift, literally sold the Agricultural Bank to their friends, leaving the farmer without funding and who never want to pay the sea loans of their worn parties. This motion of censure will not just fall into the void, but it will certainly strengthen us. The irresponsible and stalkers will take their response strong and strong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u345	Thank you very much. Mr Panayotopoulos has the floor and Mr Consolas immediately thereafter. Mr. Pappas will talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u346	Ladies and gentlemen, I am a Greek Macedonian and speak the Greek language. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I was born a few miles away from the city of Philippi, thus renamed in 356 B.C.E. from Philip II, King of the Macedonians, and no multidisciplinary committee under Article 8(5) of the agreement you bring can change that to me. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is part of my national conscience and my national conscience is an element of my soul. I do not allow anyone unbelievable or wicked, to be tale of history or cynical of power, whether he is a government agent or a Member of the Independent Greeks who will vote at night I assume in favour of rejecting the proposal for distrust of the New Democracy and therefore will light up tomorrow the green light to the Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of our country to go to sign this agreement which otherwise rejects. Tomorrow they will light up the green light to the Minister of National Defence, to the President of the Independent Greeks, Panos Kammenos, to go to NATO to manage the procedures of the Macedonian accession process in this organization, as a competent Minister, who otherwise rejects this agreement. That's what happens these days. But I made this statement and for some other reason, much more important, if you want, and more serious. Why is it no longer the time that, based on the achievements of this diplomatic success - we say now - someone will come to tell me that, Mr Panagiotopoulos, you cannot declare a Greek Macedonian who speaks the Greek language, because the Macedonians are the citizens of Northern Macedonia, as Mr Tsipras agreed with Mr Zaev. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And they speak the Macedonian language, as Mr Tsipras agreed with Mr Zaev. Therefore, when you declare Greek Macedonian, speaking the Greek language, your behavior may develop Soviet elements on the basis of a specific article by Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Zaev.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u347	Surrealist!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u348	Why surreal, Minister? I can see it done. I wish I could be disproved!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u349	Please don't interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u350	So, in the context of this aggressive, hostile, chauvinistic attitude, such a statement, if not contradictory, can be at least superficial. This and all these are the products of the negotiation that led to this agreement. That's why we're saying it's a bad deal. By eliminating the weapons of parliamentary control, we are raising this motion of distrust against the government, which negotiated and closed this agreement and tomorrow - he wants to sign it. We stand together with the hundreds of thousands, the millions of Greek people, who do not listen to this government, who protest and protest throughout Greece, in northern Greece, everywhere, why they simply do not agree. We, therefore, in here for them and for them out for us, all together, reject this agreement, which I fear will cause problems, if not suffering, in the future. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Why is the deal bad? Where is the intransigent name Severna Makedonija, which the Prime Minister spoke about in his speech, obviously, lying once again? That's gone. We have a name that is translated into each country's language and the name is Northern Macedonia. And the name of Northern Macedonia, as it has been heard, was a choice of Zafe and Dimitrov, of the scorching government factors, which the Greek side accepted poorly, as Mr Kotzias says, who, when not abuses national law, abuses the Greek language. I ask what tough negotiation, where the big one is, comes one side and decides freely, does the other side, which is supposed to negotiate hard, simply sign and consent? But also the name itself, the choice, as I told you, Zafe, doesn't it refer to aluterisms? Because the Turks insist that they call Western Thrace the Greek-speaking Thrace, in contrast to Eastern Thrace, which is part of what we now call European Turkey.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u351	Mr. Panayotopoulos, just one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u352	I shall conclude, Mr President. Another thirty seconds and thank you for your tolerance. Aluterism. It's not Gruevski's handwriting by statues. It's the hypothalamus, beneath, dangerous perversion of the Macedonian ideology of the arrogant homelands, the one who will slowly come out, because political connections are changing. I don't have time to analyse the rest of the Treaty. I say two things and I'll close. On this initiative, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you have acted in the absence of the will and the desire of the Greek people. You are more interested in satisfying the demands of the international player in the interests of their own interests, despite the popular feeling, the desire of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u353	Finish, Mr. Panayotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u354	There's something else, though. You have always wanted to do that. When Karamanlis fought Bucharest, eminent members of your party, who were then in 3% - memories from the future perhaps - supported the recognition of the neighbouring state under the constitutional name Macedonia unspoiled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u355	Memories from the past, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u356	So now I find or rather understand why you're so satisfied. But that's not how it's gonna be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u357	Don't make me rise while I don't have that right. Mr. Consolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u358	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you have heard what Mr Bourras has said, going up to the Step that they are now talking to the Aegean border. It's true, Mr. Bourra. I would also like to thank you for the opportunity to speak to the previous speaker, Mr Panayotopoulos, who has described his own socialist and ideological reference as Macedonian. Only I want to remind you, Mr President-in-Office, that this report by Macedonia is not only about Macedonia. It's about the whole country. Because Greece, as an indivisible area, is a country with historical roots that the Dodecanese is an end-findered end of the country, Europe, which I fear, if this government continues with this tactic, a short time later, we will also talk about the Dodecanese. This debate should have taken precedence. It should have taken precedence over the government rather than slamming down to a debate following the initiative by our President Mitsotakis and New Democracy to discuss here at the last minute a motion of censure by the New Democracy on the government's agreement with the Government of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. In fact, Mr President, the government has been forced to come to a debate since it tried to hide this inconsistent relationship between the government companies Tsipras - Kammenos - in the past. Unfortunately, however, this debate has now come to an end. You know, this power that Mr. Tsipras wants to have from Greek society and the Greek delegation was unable to have it and has now reached the unprecedented. Because at the moment the issue is that it has lost, there is no longer, the social majority, and it is trying to find ways to sign an agreement that is incompatible with anger, but also with fairness. Mr President, the Prime Minister referred to the handling of the Greek Government for Bucharest. The President of the New Democracy quite rightly said that there should be an excess of force in the government to refer to Bucharest, an agreement which Bucharest should have mentioned, which Mrs Bakoyannis described in the last few hours here at the National Representation. That is why the former Prime Minister, Kostas Karamanlis, referred to this speech and it would be good and useful for us all to have focused on this debate a long time ago. You know, the Tsipras Government should have as a pillar and guide that behaviour of the Karamanlis - Bakoyannis - Meimarakis government, where it had informed the National Representation and then we had actually moved along with national consciousness. Sadly, however, the Tsipra government turned as a weak partner in negotiating this country, while Skopje was really a country that was around the corner. They, in fact, called for the support of the international player for both NATO and the European Union. Mr. Tsipras made Greece a weak place. All the speakers have restored this agreement, all my colleagues in the New Democracy. And you know it's known that the unrecognized "yes" to the recognition of Macedonian ethnicity, but also of the language has now transformed into a dream the erga omnes that the prime Prime Minister from here at the National Representation said it is established. Unfortunately, we have a state called Northern Macedonia, its inhabitants will be called Macedonians and will also have a signature by the Greek Government for this. Mr President, it would be truly interesting to know what the government's position was following the decision of the Ice Arena, which states that there is no Macedonian nation, that is to say, there is no Macedonian language, that is to say, what you are now giving. The decision of the Ice Bay in 2009, however, also had Mrs Thanos, the Prime Minister's advisor. So, what do you say about all this, gentlemen of the government? The term "Macedonia" has been mentioned since ancient times. It is a term of historical, geographical and non-ethnic. That's what the decision says. The Macedonians are not, nor were they, in the recent past, specific ethnic formation. Just Macedonians were always called the inhabitants of the known ancient region of Greek Macedonia, such as the Thraces for staying in Thrace, such as the Thessalians for staying in Thessaly. Therefore, Macedonians during the ethnic age do not exist and cannot be created. That's the truth. I was amazed by Mr. Katrugalos, previously, in his report that there is a pity. Minister, the New Democracy is not begging. You must be accountable to the Greek society. I'm surprised that by your behavior you've evolved, you've mutated, and you say we're ashamed. What should we be ashamed of, Minister? I am sorry that from you who were a man of measure, you have reached overcrowded populism to exalt those who at this very moment are calling on you to bring this agreement back to the legal order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u359	You need to finish it, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u360	I shall conclude, Mr President. Unfortunately, however, the government, the Prime Minister, has worked on two points on your foreign policy, on scaffolding and on immigration. Two issues that I fear you have turned the country into a scene of irrationality, since first for the scepticism you will see the developments. We invite you to withdraw this decision. Secondly, for immigration you have turned the islands into warehouses for illegal immigrants that are extremely dangerous nationally. I would therefore ask you, even now, to be united in cultivating national conscience and moving forward without division. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u361	Thank you very much. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor. I have just been informed that he is absent from the Chamber, so Mr. Kostantinos Karamanlis of Achilles has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u362	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am serving a political school of thought which is abstracting nationalism, fanaticism and patriotism. I have been polished at the idea that foreign policy should be conducted in the light of not the party interest, but in the interests of the country over decades. I must therefore present my views as a Macedonian MEP without populism and without exaggeration, but with a full awareness of the criticality of these days. As a Member of Parliament, I should like to say to you that if you brought a nationally advantageous solution to the Skopje issue, I would be the first to recognize it. Unfortunately, however, you don't do that. You are bringing an agreement which is bad and is nationally dangerous not only today, but also for the future. And you will allow me to explain very quickly why. Firstly, because the first time - and many of my fellow Members of the New Democracy have said so - the Greek Government recognises a so-called Macedonian identity and a so-called Macedonian language. The language is the component of each nation. He's the core of his identity. By the way, speaking of language, it is important to close the story of the supposed recognition of Macedonian language in 1977. Greece did not recognize Macedonian language at that conference. It is incomprehensible that the Greek Government invokes Macedonia's arguments to invent things that have never been done. The distortion of history, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is the greatest hurricane. Secondly, you said that this agreement would be erga omnes. In practice, however, you sign a double name and not a complex name. International organisations will call Skopje Northern Macedonia, but they will call themselves Macedonians within them. And thirdly, this agreement is dangerous because it runs counter to the acquis of Bucharest - which was first a solution and then accession - and opens the door of Skopje to NATO in the very morning. So what do you do with your policy? Enhance Skopje alututism. You give them tongue, give them ethnicity, give them citizenship. You take us back to the link between the left and the Macedonian, a black, a black page in the history of the Greek Left. Instead of denying the ridicule of our neighbors, you are unfortunately rewarding him. Because some compare this agreement with Bucharest, you will allow me to explain once again what Bucharest said. It's just two things. He said, therefore, that a solution must be found to the name issue and then accession, and the agreement must apply to everyone. You two have given them away. You're enjoying something even more important. You're giving them the Macedonian ethnicity. In Bucharest, the Greek government then showed what foreign policy will say with courage, boldly, with a plan, with insight. Neither Kostas Karamanlis nor Dora Bakoyannis nor Evangelos Meimarakis did solve the pressures of foreigners, as you are unfortunately doing today. They said 'no', promoting the national interest. So today, instead of taking advantage of this acquis, you are canceling it. The government at the time did not accept such a bad deal. So don't blame others for your own failures. You're making foreign policy with your own micro-political interests. You dive into the past to divide all Greeks, but also to divide the New Democracy. We in the New Democracy are one. We are united in particular on the subject of Macedonia. We put national lines and we serve them. Finally, you will allow me to say one more thing. I want to believe that all of us who are dealing with public affairs, however high we have a position, are serving the intransigent line that Constantine Karamanlis first implemented: the national always over personal interest. So prepare to bear our homeland with a dangerous and problematic agreement. You don't sign - you see - just financial memos. You are also signing national memorandums and without Parliament's approval. In this way you should know that you will have not only the New Democracy, but also the entire Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u363	Thank you very much. Mr Kegeroglu, then President Samaras, and then Minister Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u364	Ladies and gentlemen, the PASOK and the democratic party along their historic path have always had national interests as an unnegotiable project. The national strategy with the multi-dimensional foreign policy of Andreas Papandreou has ensured for our country a path in critical times and determined the European character of the country. Today, PASOK, with its experience, continues a modern course along with all the forces that accepted the call of Phoe Gemmas. The Change Movement aspires to play a leading role in the country's reconstruction and the creation of a prosperous society on solid foundations. We want to unite the Greeks again on the basis of the patriotic character of our prolongation away from nationalism and patriocapacia. The national agreement, which is a prerequisite for us to raise the country, is very far from being informed. In 1993, Andreas Papandreou was invited to deal with a problem that had already been configured with the beginning of Ilinden, the creation of Yugoslavia and the federal state, from the civil and fifth Plenary Plenary Assembly in the Prespecies, post-parental management and the deadlock of the Mitsotakis government in 1990-93 following the break-up of Yugoslavia. The 1995 interim agreement was a success for Greece, which gave weapons to secure our national positions. In 2008, FYROM was threatened, and well vetoed, to join NATO. In 2017, Mr. Tsipras negotiated with the new Skopje leadership with pressure on both sides of America, NATO and some Europeans. Indeed, it was a good time to reach a comprehensive and sustainable agreement, but it appears that Mr Tsipras did not succeed. It went without consultation with the political forces in Greece and brought an agreement that said it was good. Good for Skopje, the international player and the Europeans who always want to close open fronts. In order to ensure, however, the interests of Greece, ladies and gentlemen, responsible, responsible and accountable to the Greek people are the Greek Government and the political forces. The Change Movement is in favour of an integrated and sustainable solution, but not anyone. Any positive of this agreement is evaporated by the negative. National interests are not adequately safeguarded, but they open up new wounds. That is why the very large majority of the Greek people have not been convinced. In addition, government actors not only do not substantiate their position, but whatever arguments we have heard these days are worse than the agreement. We've heard the millions all these days. Works and days of right-wing politicians such as Averof, Konstantinos Mitsotakis, Bakoyannis, Konstantinos Karamanlis, etc. Personally and only with this invoicing, I am against you. After all, you are more like SYRIZA and Mitsotakis the unimmemorial in 1990-1993: With a Katsiki and a Kammenos you are ruling the same policy. Clearance and monetaristic goals were both then of the government and today of you. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] But let's go to the deal. The name is erga omnes? Only on purpose, and otherwise, you accept the hard core of the alkali. As you did not have to grant the identity of Macedonian - Macedonian, Macedonian nationality, the official language Macedonian. You hide that Andreas Papandreou in 1982 put an end to the alleged recognition of the language, which no longer recognized the diplomas from Skopje. You give it all: electronic identity, international trade mark. The labels on the statues Mr. Tsipras tells us in Skopje are like native mirrors. The agreement grants the move initiative to Skopje. Greece allows their entry into NATO, delivering the veto before the completion of the process. Ladies and gentlemen, the complex name is acceptable to us, as a result of compromise within the framework of an integrated and sustainable agreement which, however, does not exist. The agreement as it stands, before changing, at least the three issues that we have raised, should not be signed. Think of the national interest. If you take your own risk, no matter what we're telling you, you'll be alone. With regard to the motion of censure, because Mr Tsipras welcomed it and said that he regards it as a vote of confidence, we vote of confidence in the Tsipras - Kammenos government and in its own words do not give it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u365	Thank you. Please, Mr Samaras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u366	Ladies and gentlemen, I will read to you what a political opponent of mine has been writing in his article for decades, who knows very well what happened to the scorpion in 1991, Theodoros Pangalos, with whom I disagreed with all the following years. To see who the far right are, who are democrats and who sells them all. So he writes Pangalos today: "Mr. Samaras, when he was Minister of Foreign Affairs, considered his obligation to regularly inform the opposition. At least me representing at the direction of Andreas Papandreou the office opposition then saw me two to three times a month. I have, thirty years later, a huge appreciation for these democratic practices of a politician with whom so much divides us. In one of our meetings, he informed me of the forthcoming declaration of independence of the Federal Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Mr Samaras had the impression that a multitude of problems would be created for our country and that impression was not entirely wrong. It has been of great importance since then in the name of the new state and in the way in which we could avoid it." Mr Pangalos closes his article as follows: 'Retreat cannot be chosen as a strategy. "North Macedonia" is not a solution. It opens the slenderness of our historical and cultural past by Slavs who have prevailed in Skopje." This is what my political opponent says today over time. All Greeks have understood what is happening today. All generations. Mr. Tsipras, you're not here, but I know you're listening to me, I fought for the scorpion, you gave it all up. I resisted, representing the unanimous decision of the cabinet at that time, the overwhelming majority of Parliament at that time and the Council of Political Heads of State at that time, all Greeks and you are giving them all today, without support from the House, without even the decision of your Minister. You gave it all to diplomatic secrets, without anyone's support, not even your government partner, with opposition in the dark and the people in the bars. In other words, there is no legalization and no consensus. From your trouble, then, you are also in complete confusion. On the one hand you and your parrots are accusing me that I, supposedly, created the scooter in 1992 and, on the other hand, you and your parrots are accusing me that I have been allegedly selling the scooter since then. Are you telling me this? You slander me as very intransigent and at the same time slander me as very retreat. Pick, finally, what of you will slander me. Because both can't be. And to be serious. I did not raise any problems in 1992. The problem of falsifying alutronism has been historically created by Stalin and Titus. That is why Mr Tsipras said nothing. Apparently, he forgot. The problem broke out politically when Yugoslavia was dismantled. I then managed the national line, which was summarised in the Council of Political Heads on 12 April 1992, with one abstention and with me not being present in the final decision. The decision of the political leaders said that Greece would not recognise a state called "Macedonia", composite or derivatives. And take it so you can get that decision, so there won't be any foolish positions. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It was then, after all, rejected and the so-called Pineiro package by the Council of Political Heads, but it was then rejected by Skopje, as Gligorov himself writes in his memoirs. As for the nonsense I have heard about the Baden-Württemberg Commission, and so on, Baden-Württemberg himself disproves them, who clearly stated that his committee had no competence over the name issue, only if the new democracies which were to be made in Yugoslavia meet the criteria of independence. But instead of other things that have been heard here! Fortunately, there are also live documentaries of the time. The scene that Constantine Karamanlis says: "Macedonia is one and it is Greek". He didn't split her up north to give her to others. There are also interviews from Papandreou, where it fully explains why Macedonia's name is a long-term airborne vehicle. Constantine Karamanlis was not a irresponsible populist. Andreas Papandreou was not far-right. For Christ's sake! I made the three terms known. But I will say before that the unbelievable thing has been said, that I was supposed to have not reacted, when the break-up of Yugoslavia took place suddenly. Well, it's revealing! Your Prime Minister knows absolutely nothing about our very recent history. So find out that at that Council of Foreign Ministers of Europe on 16 December 1991, when Germany announced that it recognized Croatia and Slovenia, I put everyone known on three terms and asked for, after great battle, the non-recognition of a state, which would have a name that would indicate steroidal thoughts against our country, which was finally accepted by the rest of us. And please take the specific Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So you must stop talking nonsense. It is also very important to say that you are even involved in the trade agreements signed with Yugoslavia before it was dissolved, with the recognition of the different states which were born, after it was dissolved. Before 16 December 1991 we and all the countries of the world signed agreements with Yugoslavia. No one could interfere with what a single state calls its regions. It was an internal case, and no one commits or internationally recognises the internal divisions of other states. After all, there are dozens of trade agreements with the single Yugoslavia between the mid-1950s and its dissolution on all the governments in the middle of the 1950s. And now it's happening. Let me give you an example. Tens of trade agreements with Spain, which Catalonia refers to, are now calling for secession. It is like saying that all the countries that trade with Spain have recognised the independence of Catalonia. But are we all right? Yugoslavia was then broken down a few weeks later. And since then, neither the Skopje themselves have ever thought of telling them that we had recognized them, even indirectly then. Even the Skopje didn't dare say that! Inside your porch you have become Skopje's "skopier". And let me make one more thing clear. The Skopje issue has never been handled by me since April 1992. I was no longer a Foreign Minister. And within the country's political world there have since been opinions and manipulations and different approaches and different manipulations. I just happened not to take part in all this. But I can tell you that all the political world for twenty-six years, even with its disagreements, has coincided with one thing, that we could never legitimise Skopje's mutilation. I have been supporting it since then and still support it - and I write it down and say it all the time - that the name is indeed a van. Others had a different approach. However, we all agreed that we cannot accept and legitimise their own equilibrium. And our objections to FYROM have been accepted by the United Nations since 1993. Why? How do I say that? They forced Skopje to negotiate with Greece their final name, which had never happened before. Because since 1993 they have entered the UN as a former country, a former member of a Federation of Yugoslavia, which no longer exists. Never before has he entered the UN under a provisional name. It has never entered into the past with a former'something'. Never had a country ever had to negotiate with its neighbour. So the international community itself has understood something since 1993. This side never understood. And this is confirmed by the Skopje themselves, who, despite the fact that they had achieved international recognition under their constitutional name, namely "Macedonia" was like a hundred forty countries, were mainly interested in how we, Greece, not Côte d'Ivoire or Burkina Faso will recognize them. Because we would legitimise or not legalise their pervertism. And we, the Greek people and its political parties, with all the disagreements - which naturally exist - never legalised him. It's exactly what the Tsipra government is doing right now. I have always opposed the word 'Macedonia'. And with regard to the Venizelos statements to the United Nations in September 2014, he replied it clearly yesterday: It was his view, not mine. We have, however, remained in agreement at that time and always in agreement with the basic one: to neutralize allegiance. So we are all on the one side that - you want to say'resisted', do you want to say 'we didn't codify'? - and he's SYRIZA alone, on the other hand, who gave it all up. Several governments have tried to negotiate in the past, but not mine. They were negotiated, but they did not sign. You sign. They were negotiated, but they didn't. You give it to me. So we are all here and there, Mr Tsipras, and you alone, because only you in the first place recognized Skopje as 'Macedonia'. You didn't care about their pervertism. You were rushing to sign them and doing so. You didn't negotiate, you got used to everything. Besides, for me it's expected. Your party youth went to Skopje and protested to be recognized by Greece as "Macedonia". And who did you protest in Skopje, in return, brothers? With your friend Zafe's party? Oh, no. With the youth of the nationalists of Gruevski and today's President Ivanov. They're the ones you identified. The Greek patriots on the streets, on the other hand, find them as fascoids. And in Skopje you went and supported the nationalists, who turn against Greece. Also, in 2008, members of your party and current ministers, majestics, signed a public declaration that Skopje should be recognised as "Macedonia". Take the relevant decision - a statement. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the statement referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So don't tell us about a national line. You have always opposed the national line. On the one hand, all of us who resisted, with any disagreements between us, but on the other hand, we all wanted to neutralize the pervertism, and on the other hand, you who went and you recognized it completely, because you wanted it from the start and did not hide it. The agreement you now bring recognises Macedonian ethnicity and Macedonian language, which no Greek politician has ever thought of in the past. It's the first thing Zaev celebrated yesterday in Skopje. You don't even give them the composite name, as the Prime Minister falsely claimed. Translated will be and will not be erga omnes, as also falsely claimed. They will have for their ethnicity a triple name. Because, as provided for in Article 7, otherwise it will be called the 'Macedonians' international citizens of Northern Macedonia - otherwise they will be said in Greece - the citizens of Northern Macedonia - and otherwise they will be said within Skopje - as 'Macedonians' - since at the end of Article 7 of the Agreement there will be no change in the use of the conditions existing in their country until now. There goes the erga omnes! And these clarifications contained in the agreement in Article 7 on which the government is enthusiastic, ultimately inspires and strengthens the pervertism, because they say exactly what the Skopje said, that Macedonia has nothing to do with Greek culture, just as their school books say. And now with the preselection you sign, they can ask to change our own school books. Be careful, remember that Bulgarians may have first recognized Skopje as Macedonia, but they never recognized Macedonian nation, Macedonian language, or Macedonian identity. And it is no coincidence that Bulgaria expressed the fears of the previous substantially warned that there would be no pressure for border changes in the future. They know something. You have unfortunately not taken the developments in the Western Balkans.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u367	Please, Mr President, how long do you want to close?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u368	I think, Mr President, ten minutes. There was no speaker in here who wouldn't mention my name. I have an obligation to answer that. Ten minutes I think it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u369	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u370	You facilitate what you tell us is that you have allegedly prevented. The question of time is to resurrect all aggressive perverts. The question of time will be new thoughts for borders and supposedly ethnic ones. You have been stirring up the next wave of Balkan conflicts. And at the same time Article 6, which you have brought, will be understood - do not mistaken - as a ban on the syllables of Macedonia's Greekity. I'll tell you differently, minutes. The activity of the Museum of Paul Mela is propaganda and must be banned? The activities of the Macedonian Struggle Museum in Thessaloniki will also be considered as a propaganda mechanism? Will it be forbidden? Furthermore, with your agreement you commit Greece to not putting any problem in the European accession of Macedonia, nor on the vital bilateral issues, such as the Axis pollution, for which so far our neighbours have been deaf and will continue to be deaf. But at the port of Thessaloniki, we are bound by the agreement to give them serious concessions. So everything without consideration, even the most elementary bilaterals. In short, you recognise a nation state of Macedonia, which includes such a strong minority of Albanians, non-Macedonians, as they call it, 'Macedonians' - which it has so far oppressed Albanians. You recognize a Macedonian language that is actually an idiom of another internationally recognized language. You recognize "North Macedonians" who will be the only internationally recognized Macedonians, since the real Macedonians, our Greeks, will not have international recognition. It will just be a part of the Greek people. In short, you recognise an abortion that will not stabilise the region, it will dynamise it. Instead of solving problems, it will cause internal and regional frictions, apart from their international ravages that will have with Greece for commercial products, exports and localities. Let us not repeat, we will fight for the wine, for the carpet, for the dairy, for the marbles of Macedonia, for the names, for the placenta. You recognized an abortion, a legend of destabilisation, and the Skopje themselves and the region in general. The agreement to remember will either not last, or it will cause explosions and Greece will be in worse places. The only thing that really works is to pave the way for Macedonia's accession to NATO, nothing else. You bypassed the Greek veto and solved no problems. But Greece is also destabilising it internally, because when you sign and create a feat against the will of the overwhelming majority of the Greeks, without the vote of the House and with the opposition, you are destabilising the country and democracy. When in a country that has been in a financial crisis for ten years, which has been in a social crisis for eight years, because of you it even recurred three years ago, when under such conditions, in such a burdensome society, a sense of national humiliation and collapse is suddenly created, you put a bourlot on Greece, Mr. Tsipras. Other people from the outside may not see it, and they probably don't appreciate it. We, however, have to highlight and insist. It is only natural that various international leaders who were in a hurry to close it. They always wanted to shut it down. And I speak in knowledge. But remember, you're temporarily shutting it down. You haven't solved it, and you've opened a lot of more trouble than you've ever been. You know what? And the Annan Plan, if you brought it back and tried to enforce it, in the absence of the Greek people and Cypriot Hellenism, would again be congratulated by foreigners. Fortunately, it was prevented in 2004 and now nobody mentions it. That's Tsipra's problem. It occasionally swears on our western allies, even where the country had to work with them. And now for the chair and power, he signes no matter what they give him. Everything! You, Mr. Tsipras, hear me, don't suddenly become pro-Western. A mere 'yes man' has become. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you have the nerve to mess with me. I think there has never been such an inspiring Prime Minister for the past. Even with "NOVARTIS" you slandered me on the same day that the great rally for our Macedonia became. Now you have also accused me of criticising the President of the Republic. First of all, the President of the Republic as an institution is not entitled to judge politically open issues. When he takes a position - badly - and he expresses his pleasure at the agreement, which Tsipras had just made on the phone, on an agreement that only Tsipras knew at that time and that the President had not yet read, then I can certainly criticise. Then who says to me "subjudgment" of the country? Who blames me for institutional acronyms? Mr. Tsipras, who, for three years, called on the former President of the Republic to resign and to drop our government? Mr. Tsipras who did not vote for the President of the Republic to throw the government down, even denouncing MP money, threatening everyone? [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] And when? By the time the country came out of the memorials. Are you saying what you've undermined everything? It's fun! You blame me for supposedly having a political career in Skopje, me consciously staying in my home for a decade. You who have been hooked up with authority and sign everything to remain just one more day. You blame me for having a career! That's fun, too. If you hadn't told all the lies you said, and if you had told the people everything you really did, you would have stayed below 4% forever. That's why you're giving it all away. For a chair. Because you are moral, political and ideological invertebrates. You went to use the scorpion as a tool to break down New Democracy and failed mercilessly. And now you blame Mr. Mitsotakis and me for your failure. I would like to say to Mr Tsipras now that he listens to me well: we will remain united, Mr Tsipras! A fist! And put it right in your mind. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] And I remind you, Mr Tsipras, that I and as President of the Party and as Prime Minister have fully respected the former President and Prime Minister. Not like you did with Mr. Alavano. And I fully support the current President of the New Democracy and a future Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis. New Democracy is not SYRIZA. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] But, beyond that, from New Democracy and from me, you now also swear the Greek people, who demonstrate that Macedonia is Greek. Note: It does not tell you what policy to do, what foreign policy not to do. Do not sell Macedonia. And you who supported every minority, now you see the vast majority of society in front of you. Even Mr. Koutsubas of the KKE told you on Wednesday in here that the deal you're bringing keeps Skopje alutism strong. Papariga, too, said of the Prime Minister, saying that he was incoherent and ridiculous. Others, of course, the best of all, Mickey Theodorakis said on February 4, in the presence of millions of Greeks: "You are nationalists". Take note, then, of all of us who disagree with you here and all those who disagree with you out there are not one thing, we do not have the same view, we do not have common starting points and we certainly do not sell patriotism, as you have said. We just love our country. It's just, we're moved by the national symbols, we feel the pulse of Hellenism. We are not deserted by the orders given by the generations of Greeks for a Macedonia that has been battered for its existence. We are certainly part of the great Europe, but we are Greek and as Greek proud each one of us carries his own small or large heritage. And anyone who insists on these principles and stands up is not a patriot or a nationalist. He's a patriot and he's across the opposing nationalists, who despite popular anger are stuck in their chair. Mr. Tsipras will go tomorrow with the pen that Mr. Kammenos gives him, celebrating cynically, to sign a pity agreement. The world is aware of it, you're aware of it. Prepare to account for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u371	Thank you. The Minister has the floor, Mr Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully to Mr Samara's speech. I was very impressed by his style. It was an apology style, a historical retrograde, probably trying to apologize to Mrs Bakoyannis and Mr Mitsotakis for the fact that in 1993 she threw their father's government. I think Mr Samaras has made an apologetic assessment and he has decided on himself that he has done well in negotiating the name issue between 1991 and 1992. However, there is another historical appreciation for the performances of Mr Samaras at the time, which has come from Constantine Mitsotakis himself. About four years ago in an interview at "Kathimerini" Mr. Mitsotakis said about Mr. Samaras, who told us that he was doing very well in the negotiation, that "Mr. Samaras did so forth". This was the historical valuation of Constantine Mitsotakis for Mr Samaras, who was all applauded a while ago. Mr Samaras, the way he handled the whole negotiation process at that time, completely destabilised our relations with the neighbouring country. He almost destabilised the whole of the Balkans, and now he thinks he will put a risky and blackmailing veto on the Greek Government's attempt to resolve this conflict, which has lasted for twenty-six years. He's not gonna make it. More has been said by Mr Samaras about the pervertism, about the language, about the nationality of the citizen, and he has distorted things, and he has presented himself here as a merciless contributor. In any case, instead of answering Mr Samaras, I would recommend reading a very interesting article, which has not been written by a philosopher. It has been published in "KATHMERINI", if I'm not mistaken. It is Mr Stefanos Kasimatis' article, which explains why the agreement that we will sign in a few hours is good, but also fully guarantees the country's national interests. Mr. Cassimatis is not some extreme left symbol, etc. Instead, for another answer, read this article or you can read other analyses written in the press by real liberals who respect themselves, not like you who go every time wind blows, depending on what suits your political diarrhea. What Mr Samaras has not told us is, of course, whether it is or is not under the composite name. He said that Mr. Venizelos expressed a personal view of the UN. He did not, however, tell us that in his 2012 government's programming statements, the position of a complex name had been voted in favour. He forgot that, too. It's okay. He also told us that the reason why we want to resolve the problem is our attempt to break down New Democracy. The man who has talent in the break-up of the New Democracy is Mr Samaras, it's not us. He's done it before. [[Applause and laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] The reasons why we will resolve this conflict have to do with the fact that we exercise external responsibility, are related to the need for stability, peace and cooperation in the wider region. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, under the guidance of Mr Samaras, in the last six months Mr Mitsotakis has considered the political issue to be an election. Mr Mitsotakis made a huge political concession to the extreme right-wing leader, controlled by Mr Samaras in New Democracy and holding him hostage, raised a flag of confrontation on the issue of negotiations with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. I do not think he has understood exactly the consequences of this policy of choice, neither for his party nor for the country, much more. Because in reality you will also hear the views of the Members of the New Democracy and of Mr Samaras earlier, who have spoken these days, you will fully confirm that Mr Mitsotakis is freed from a deep nationalist, ideological potential and has turned New Democracy into a right-wing neoliberal party in a nationalist form. But, and that is the problem, this political choice moves the entire axis around which the right is identified in our country and that is precisely the last consequence of Mr Mitsotakis' political choice. The most dangerous consequence, in fact, because what - really - expects you to hear from Golden Earbarousse when the former Prime Minister of the country speaks of 'flooding' when the New Democracy MPs are talking about ethnic betrayals and dividends? What exactly does anyone expect to hear from Mr Barbaroussi? He expects to call overthrow the President of the Republic for arrest of the Prime Minister. It is natural that you have caused with your attitude, what happened yesterday in the House. It's the logical consequence of the event...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u373	Well, aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u374	My lord, I'm not ashamed at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u375	You should be ashamed of saying such things to this party that restored democracy in Greece with Constantine Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u376	It is the logical consequence of the fact that you have set up the carpet in nationalism. You have the monster of nationalism, you and your colleagues! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] When the New Democracy talks about treason, Golden Dawn will talk about the need for a coup.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u377	You're over it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u378	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u379	That is why Mr Mitsotakis bears full and complete responsibility for everything that happened yesterday in the Greek Parliament, in full and complete. Ladies and gentlemen, there are in the New Democracy's speech and attitude, but there are also the results of the choice of four unbearable paradoxes that I would like to highlight. Paradoxical first, the constitutional paradox. Mr Mitsotakis has been starting to question the authority of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Prime Minister to sign an international agreement. He tried to argue beyond any legal and constitutional logic that the government should allegedly request the Parliament's approval for the signature. In other words, ask the executive to approve the House, as did the two first three Memorandum governments, when they had to sign the extrajudicial compromise with SIEMENS. Because they were afraid of the ministers going to sign them on their own, because they did not know what would follow, they asked for the parliament's approval to be covered and legally. So they told us that what they discovered as a patent in the first memorandum years should be turned into constitutional logic and that the government supposedly had to ask for the parliamentary permission to go to exercise its legitimate constitutional competence. He even asked for the intervention of the President of the Republic, who put him in his place in a very kind manner, I would say. The Constitution and International Law are very well aware that it clearly defines the government's responsibilities. International law in fact in Article 8 of the Vienna Convention on International Conditions provides that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs may sign international treaties. It's part of their executive power. So the fact that you went to turn a political controversy into a constitutional order I think it is one of your biggest challenges. Will you tell me what the paradox is? The paradox you know what it is? The paradox is that the first time in parliamentary history after the announcement of a motion of censure by your leader came the House and in full concisely voted in favour of a government bill with a hundred and fifty-four votes. In other words, Mr Mitsotakis managed within two days the Greek Government confirmed the Parliament's confidence twice. This is an unprecedented parliamentary fact and we thank him very much for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u380	Minister, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u381	Allow me, Mr President. Paradoxically, the family paradox which I think is rather obvious. Mr. Mitsotakis, with his attitude, managed to justify his historically and politically Antonis Samaras, who expressed the views expressed today by Kyriakos Mitsotakis threw the government of Constantine Mitsotakis twenty-five years ago. I think that this paradox seals precisely and confirms Mr Mitsotakis' political hostage from the extreme right-wing group led by Mr Samaras. Paradox three, the European paradox. The New Democracy was registered in the European political scene until a liberal, pro-European party, a party that lifted the flag is supposed to be and its stature towards SYRIZA's populism. So within two days of Mr. Mitsotakis succeeded the following unprecedented: The new Republic should be disapproved in the European Parliament of its attitude to the agreement. The flagship of the German conservative press, the "FRANKFURTER ALLGEINE ZEITUNG" to call Mr.Mitsotakis a representative of the old political regime which went bankrupt Greece. FOCUS magazine today similar to Victor Orban, the supranational leader of Hungary, number one opponent of open Europe. The magazine "FOREIGN POLICY" also mentions the nationalist opposition of Greece. That's what Mr. Mitsotakis has done in just two days. He managed during his own leadership to convince Europeans that what the government has been saying a long time ago, namely that the New Democracy is an ethno-socialist party. I close with the fourth paradox, the most important in my opinion and the most intolerable, the nationalist paradox. To see what exactly the nationalist paradox is, you only have to look at and compare the statements by the nationalist right VMRO and Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Kumoutsakos and other officials of the New Democracy. They're exactly the same! Do you remember that Mr. Mitsotakis said he would not divide the Greeks to unite the Skopje? Finally, what Mr Mitsotakis has achieved is himself to join the most conservative and extreme nationalist circles in our neighbouring country. Well, congratulations on that, too. On the substance, VMRO calls Mr Zaev a retailer. The New Democracy and Mr. Mitsotakis call Mr. Tsipras a minority. The question is, which one of the two has reduced, Mr Tsipras or Mr Zaev? Neither one of them has reduced, ladies and gentlemen of the counterpopulation. It's just that two leaders were finally found with a little brain in their heads to put a definitive end to a conflict...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u382	It's a little bit of a brain.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u383	Mr. Ausgarian, would you like to have a sense of humor? He has a little more than you. Two leaders were found with brains on their heads to resolve a conflict that lacked diplomatic and political capital from Greece, but also from the Balkans. Two leaders were found to definitively close down the capital of nationalist excitement and great idealism, which concern not only our neighbours, but also your own great ideas and nationalistic misery, which you continue to support a hundred years after the collapse of the Ottoman Empire. This century of majesticism, this century of nationalism and extremes and extremism ends today with this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u384	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u385	What do you want, Mr. Hatzidakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u386	I don't think I'm going to cause a problem in the process. On the contrary, my position will help to move on smoothly. I will not answer the government's representative horizontally. I don't have the time right now. Other colleagues will respond to their position. He was provocative to our resignation. I am only standing in one, which I consider to be essential, in his report on Golden Dawn. Mr President, you were here yesterday. After what was unbelievably and outrageously expressed by the Congressman of the Golden Dawn, I was placed - after your position - and I condemned them unequivocally. And I saw at the end of my position SYRIZA's colleagues in honor of applauding me and thanking them for that. This is New Democracy, the commitment to democracy and liberalism, human rights. We're away from the extremes and extremities.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u387	You, not all of us!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u388	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u389	I could, ladies and gentlemen, point out that if I followed the way of the Government representative, I would remind you of the upper and lower square. I could recall the vote on the election of the President of the Republic, where SYRIZA and the Golden Dawn were united to provoke elections in 2015. I won't!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u390	Be quiet! We're done. We're closing now. Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u391	I will not do so because I believe that the days are crucial, the debate is historic and we must all understand that, above all our differences, as large as possible, there are two things, democracy and homeland, Greece. I would like to stress this with all the strength of my voice, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u392	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-three members from the Parents and Premiers Association of the 7th Municipal School of Alexandroupolis. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Savvas Anastasiades has the floor. Then there's Mrs. Rapti, and then Mr. Djimani. Here, Mr Anastasiades, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u393	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the pursuit of all the previous governments was to resolve the sceptic problem in a way, but that does not give rise to any new problems, perhaps even greater, which will probably occur afterwards, when today's leadership is no longer in power. What all the previous governments were trying to do was to achieve a solution by name that does not refer to insulating and invoking a fake Macedonian identity. That was the national line. Unfortunately, today the government is retreating from this national line. Mr. Tsipras gave our neighbors the right to choose a name, which he accepted. But when, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a solution to such a large national issue, we are first trying, Minister, to form a single national front, without micro-party purposes, tricks and spoonings. But it seems that you in the government and Mr. Tsipras did not understand that nor did you pursue it. You went to a negotiation with the great majority of the Greek people and, of course, the House. You have dealt with a large national issue with an ease that touches the limits of urgency. You started negotiation with a fundamental mistake, assuming that the opposite side is right. When you say, and call it here today, that a hundred forty countries have recognized or said "Macedonia", you accept that the other side is right. But you are deliberately ignoring that weight for the other side is recognized by Greek. If that were not the case, they would not insist and ask for our neighbors too, but the strangers would not push for Greek recognition. Because they know very well that the road to the European Union, NATO and international organisations goes through Greece. This was the case left to you by the New Democracy Government in 2008 in Bucharest. But you did not take advantage of it. And, because in the last few days, you have often referred to the Bucharest's decision by perverting it as an alibi, but I think that Mrs Bakoyannis' position yesterday, which was then the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but also the statement by the former Prime Minister, who invoked the position of Mrs Bakoyannis, is clearing the facts and giving the signal of the differences between the two positions, your position and the position of the New Democracy. Your allegations now about the need for agreement for Greece to be a factor of stability and peace in the region, I think they are also funny for babies. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in time Greece is a force of stability and peace in the region, it is the second investment country in Skopje and, of course, the Skopje have never stopped flooding Thessaloniki, the markets and the beaches of northern Greece. So this argument you are referring to is unfounded. So the result of your agreement is tragic and nationally detrimental. Mr. Tsipras humiliated the country and its people, he agreed with Macedonia's name in the absence of the majority of the Greek people and the Greek Parliament. You have not dared to go to the people or bring it to the House for vote. You are sending the agreement to the other House in future, and you are thus making it difficult for your partner, Mr Kammenos, to sell upward patriotism. This is a major radioactivity. The acceptance by Mr. Tsipras of the Macedonian nationality, along with the acceptance of the Macedonian language, strengthens the idea of Macedonia's ideology, which has at its core the narrative of the disfellowshiped Macedonia. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] It's unthinkable how you accepted these. The fact that, until now, this country has been called 'Macedonia', and now it will be called, if it is called, Northern Macedonia, which is an argument you are using, is extremely misleading. Because you're trying to bypass a critical warning difference. Because until now this country has not had the approval of Greece. From now on, he will have the approval and signature of Mr. Tsipras. But let's see what we gave and what we got.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u394	Please, Mr Anastasiades, your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u395	Please, Mr President, just one more minute. I'm done. We recognized language in the neighboring country. Stars are funny and naive. We baptized them "Macedonians". And trademarks and names will be judged by an international commission when? When we exist in this state. With our signature, the University of Macedonia, the Region of Central Macedonia and all these national marks will be judged. You understand what the result will be. If you don't understand, Mr. Lazarides, and, Mrs. Kollia, you'll understand when the first international judicial claim comes. But then it'll be too late for you. The deal's bad, it's poor. We do not accept it. It humiliates the Greek people. It is in complete contrast with the will of the Greek people. That is why the President of the New Democracy and all the Members of the New Democracy tabled a motion of censure to the government. And we are all Members of all the parties, especially Northern Greece, being called out of circumstances, yes, Mrs Kollia, and standing up against our conscience and our history. We will do so, we will honor those who have given their blood for Macedonia, which is one and the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u396	Mr Helena Rapti has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u397	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure we tabled as a New Democracy is a motion of censure...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u398	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u399	What can you tell us now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u400	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u401	Now don't confront yourself. Whatever is personal, it's respected. I wasn't in the Chamber. The president knows.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u402	Mr. President, may I continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u403	Excuse me, Mrs. Rapt, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u404	You told us yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u405	Let our colleagues hear again. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u406	It's for the chair you've got now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u407	And you guys are about something else. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u408	You're welcome. "Karkel" and "Trust" and "Medalism"! Date now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u409	And let me tell you something else. I delivered my chair when the New Democracy erased me. I handed it over!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u410	What chair?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u411	What chair? The chair to take it from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u412	Please. What are you doing right now, Mr. Buddhism?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u413	Mr President, no one can say that he is more a Macedonian than I am. Nobody, if that's how we want to talk in here. We also insist that we are not talking about the agreement at the moment. We are talking about the motion of censure that the New Democracy brings it early and you are giving the Skopje rights to speak and have the basis for arguments that you have all expressed these days. That's what I had to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u414	You send them to sign. You should go to the Prespes with Tsipras too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u415	That's enough! And in Prespes, I'm going everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u416	You're welcome. Stop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u417	So when Maria Kollia took over the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u418	You send them to sign!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u419	Please! Mr. Voridis, is that possible? Excuse me? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u420	I urge her to join the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u421	You urged yesterday to your speech, to encourage some and sometimes even at times during the meeting. Stop impulses, and that's the way it is. And it is not at all polite - I have told you before - to be very deficient, especially when the ladies speak. Let's get to know each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u422	They do not accept that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u423	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u424	I'll finish if they let me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u425	In conclusion, Mr Kammenos will also speak on behalf of the whole party.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u426	And he'll say it the way he has to. And with evidence! The 'Mrs.' thanks me for saying so. But on equal terms, as a woman, I want us to have the same behavior as men and women in here. And I like the fact that the whole New Democracy is messing with Collia and Kammenos. Long time ago. We're not ashamed of anything. We have decided that we should help the country. When this deal comes and if it comes...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u427	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u428	That's enough, Wisdom! That's enough! Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u429	We know. Don't say it all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u430	I'll talk to you again, because you're the ones causing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u431	Excuse me. Do you veto her not to talk? Don't you understand how bad this is? Please. That's not right behavior. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u432	I'm closing, Mr. President. That is why my colleagues have understood and that is why they are attacking me. They were waiting for us to retreat, become other Samarians. We do not betray the confidence of the Greek people. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] We don't betray her. We still have a way to do this, and when the time comes, we will be judged. And if we wanted to get 15% and 20%, as you whisper them in our ears, we would have thrown the government away. But that's not what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u433	Mrs Raptis, first of all, we are sorry for the delay we have made. It was wrong of me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u434	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u435	No, Mr. Lazarides. You'll be given a chance later. Some other time. Alas! Ms. Rapt is five minutes in the Step. We said respecting each other a little bit.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u436	Clearly and with respect. But I want the MP to be present too....
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u437	And why do you want to? It's his right. Please. Wherever he goes in here, he'll listen to you. Anytime. Any time it takes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u438	It's serious. I want to make a complaint, which I didn't mean to make.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u439	I have given the floor to Mrs Rapt. Please don't cause anyone. That's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u440	There are some people trying to threaten MPs...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u441	Mr. Lazarides, please. Incomprehensible things! Mr. Lazarides, Mr. Yakumato, don't give us any food.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u442	What's my fault?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u443	Mr President, you are not protecting...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u444	Mr. Papadopoulos, would you like to join the frame? What are you doing now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u445	Watch out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u446	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u447	Mr. Lazarides, sit down. Mr. Anastasiades, please. They've got it. We do not give food to parapolitical and anti-political situations outside the Ethiopian Peninsula. Mercy! Stop! Mr. Yakumato, it's not your fault. I'm sorry to mention your name earlier. Be well. I repeat, we must not give food to mispolitical and anti-political. On the substance of the policy here, we are talking about everything. Mrs. Rapt, I'm sorry for the second time. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u448	Mrs. Collia, I was on my way to Step and you interrupted me to make a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u449	No, I didn't interrupt you. I have taken the floor from the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u450	But let me tell you that this motion of censure, which we tabled as a New Democracy, is a motion of censure which has particular characteristics. Do you know why? It is precisely because it is connected to a large national issue. And that's exactly what we're talking about today. Who, then, can fool the fact that the government partner can give the government his votes to continue to govern, while at the same time throwing the deal with Skopje in its face? And if that is internal to them, does the government think that it could find parliamentary support somewhere else, especially after dealing with the Skopje issue? Reading is very simple and citizens are very experienced to understand that trust is not a matter of a marginal majority, but a question of a popular feeling. And that's lost to SYRIZA long ago. But let us see why the government is asking us to vote against the motion of censure we have tabled. Do you really feel that someone can trust her? And let me confine myself to just one matter. Six months the government has served in a secret diplomacy with Skopje. Six months of going, hugs, smiles, photos and optimism. Six months of promises of a battle for an agreement that will safeguard our national interests and many great discourses. Six months of spoon to the Greek people, to see the so-called good mood of the Skopje, who changed their name at the airport and their national road. Six months of spooning about, supposedly, "Iliden Macedonia", which is the worst, in order to reconcile with "North Macedonia", which is the least evil. Six months of discussions and write - erase, to produce the most insulting and humiliating text in our foreign policy history. Ladies and gentlemen, have you read what the agreement says? And I am not talking about the chatter of the second part, about close transnational cooperation and other graphics, aimed at disorientating society. These could be part of any transnational cooperation agreement. I'm asking if you've read the first part. Did you read that Macedonia is no longer one, but two? How do we have the south and the north? Did you read that our neighbours are getting, in our signature, the Macedonian language? Have you read how we give them, by our signature, the Macedonian nation? Who is interested in the much-discussed 'erga omnes' when they are now called 'North Macedonia' and slowly 'Macedonia'? If, ladies and gentlemen, you see the new United Nations Charter, to whom will the name 'Macedonia' belong? If, ladies and gentlemen, a foreigner sees a Skopje, whose name will be 'Macedonian', ethnicity in the passport of 'Macedonian' and the language of 'Macedonian', who do you say he will consider to be genuine Macedonian? The government's agreement creates the most fertile ground for the development of alkaliism and no text guarantees that this will not happen. Who will prohibit the Skopje from rechanging their constitution? What joint committee will change their maps and books? What instrument will punish those who are invading Greece? Funny guarantees, inapplicable and misleading, supposedly result from tough negotiation, but also from propaganda of inspiration or mockery. It is clear to us. We never trusted in this government. And the agreement that brings it confirms it in the most tragic way. I want, even at the very last moment, to address the Prime Minister and tell him not to sign this bad agreement. And I would like to say this in public - because every Member has a personal responsibility for what he is voting for - that an agreement that has the name 'Macedonia' will never have my own vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u451	Thank you very much. My colleague, General and Macedon, George Nzimanis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u452	I, Mr President, when am I going to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u453	After Mr. Nzimani I will give you the floor, Mr. Lazarides. Mr. Njimani, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for distrust is a turbulence in the air, because it expresses the shamefulness of counter-population towards the Government of Alexis Tsipras, which sees the country pulling out of the memoranda, approaching debt regulation and bringing an agreement on the settlement of our differences with FYROM. Suddenly, self-confidence of poll winners was evacuated by the confidence of the winners of real politics. And I'm coming to the deal. The Balkans have historically been characterized by Europe's silicon warehouse. Their borders are guaranteed by the Treaty of Bucharest. With this treaty, the geographical region of Macedonia was divided as follows: 51% of the territory was taken by Greece, 39% by Serbia, the current Macedonian Macedonia, 9.5% by Bulgaria and 0.5% by Albania. Greece, with this treaty, took almost the whole of Greek Macedonia, which the Macedonians and the Greek army watered with their blood. So Greek Macedonia is Greek and no one can take it from us. So calm down, the late Macedonians. Our Macedonia is not in danger. With the creation of Yugoslavia, the Federal Republic of Macedonia was established and for political purposes - due to the Cold War - not only was there no reaction from the then Greek governments that made agreements in the name of that country, but also from the school books Geography and school and military maps depicted the northern neighbour named "Macedonia". With the break-up of Yugoslavia, our northern neighbour was identified under the name "Macedonia", due to the bad manipulations of the Foreign Minister, who, on the one hand, threw the government of Constantine Mitsotakis, on the other hand, made a political career as a Macedonian leader. Subsequently, with the interim agreement, the country was called FYROM. Subsequently, the national line, which provided for a complex name geographically for all uses, erga omnes, rejected by FYROM Gruevski's Prime Minister in Bucharest in 2008, was created. After Bucharest, we had no progress until the Zafe government arrived. Our government, based on Bucharest's national line and lifting the bar even higher. He demanded a revision of the neighbour's constitution, removing the alutyrisms. The major opposition has put forward a motion of censure on the pretext that the agreement is detrimental to national interests. That's the pretext. The real reason for this is vote, and the ultimate effort to reduce our government. In this way, Anti-Policy tries to divide the Greek people, taking advantage of its patriotism, its sensitivity and its concern about Greek issues, leaving the national line and, in fact, without any position, its micro-groups are not defending its national interests. The agreement respects the values, lines and dignity of the two peoples, renounces pervertism and is not humiliating. That is why it is sustainable. It is also identical to the national position and the conditions laid down for twenty years. Recognises for our country, our neighbour, a complex name with geographical designation, "North Macedonia", erga omnes, stressing that the inhabitants of the country have nothing to do with the ancient Greeks, thus safeguarding our national heritage and our history. The language is referred to as ‘Macedonian’ and is stressed to be part of the group of southern Slavic languages. Not to mention in time how many people recognized her as "Macedonian". Citizenship, citizenship - nationality - is "Macedonian citizens of northern Macedonia". This is not about ethnicity - ethnicity - which is a matter of self-determination, based on the United Nations Charter. The agreement is not a national retreat, but it is a closure of an open wound, which we have had for decades with the neighbouring country. Greece, after leaving the comitology and the memoranda, seeks co-development, cooperation and solidarity with the peoples of the Western Balkans within a climate of security and stability in the region. For so many years, in the name of patriocardialism on either side, we have lost valuable diplomatic capital and time, which was necessary for our country. The geopolitical environment in which we live requires us to close off the open fronts with the northern border and focus on addressing the problems we have with our neighbour to the East. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, I believe that the Prespecies will become the symbol of peace, communication and solidarity between the two peoples and will contribute to the development, stability and security of the Balkan countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u455	Thank you very much. Mr. Yannis Koutsoukos has the floor. He's the last of the PASOK Democratic Association to speak. Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u456	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, as you have rightly pointed out, they are constantly being said themselves in an effort by the heavy names of SYRIZA and the New Democracy to transfer responsibility to each other. There, mostly, the arguments were consumed, with calls from historians, journalists, poets and writers. Our conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, is that, on the one hand, New Democracy is responsible for the problem and has not been solved and, on the other hand, SYRIZA is responsible for how it is going to be solved. He hasn't spoken, of course, to the genuine Karamanlis who might have given us some more information. But I think our conclusion is solid. I am referring, ladies and gentlemen, to the time of Tito and the post-Greek and its governments, until the collapse of Yugoslavia and the attitude of the then government of the New Democracy. Our prolongation, as you all know, was historically in favour of the solution, but not in favour of any solution. Andreas Papandreou - I remind you - has received the problem of his exacerbation and the embargo first and the 1995 interim agreement have created the conditions of his resolution. The same line was followed by all the subsequent PASOK governments without, unfortunately, finding favourable conditions, thanks mainly to the political situation in the neighbouring country, in order to solve it. Following this patriotic line of PASOK, the Democratic Reconstitution and the Change Movement set the terms and conditions with a complex name Erga omnes and constitutional changes on the issues of altutration. The SYRIZA agreement does not meet the criteria we have set. We have demonstrated the positive and the negative, especially in relation to ethnicity, and we have asked that you do not create a fait accompli, do not entangle the country. Your failure to take advantage of the most positive juncture - many ministers have mentioned at this positive juncture today - and to bring in a broad acceptance agreement, is due, ladies and gentlemen, to the internal governmental contradictions of the conflict with the ANELs and the small-party goals you are serving. At the same time you wanted to address the audience of the Macedonian style of the old "good" SYRIZA and at the same time to the far right, pseudo-patriotic audience of ANELs. You broke the national front in favour of the solution, following a negotiation in the absence of the forces of the solution. The New Democracy, with its time-consuming responsibilities, has constantly shifted as defence, against your own methods. But history teaches us, ladies and gentlemen, when and under what conditions can we have success. Let us look at a few examples: How we restored our unfavourable conditions for joining the European Economic Community in 1981. How in 1987 we faced the Greek-Turkish crisis. How, in 1993-1995, we were partly prevented by the interim agreement. How we led to Helsinki and the accession of Cyprus to the European Union. How we succeeded in convergence and entered EMU. Always with national self-consciousness and social coexistence. On the contrary, when we did not have these, we had defeats, divisions and humiliations. But how does SYRIZA - ANEL manage the country's major national interests and strategic areas? Instead of the prospect of leaving the country from the memoranda, we have long and burdensome commitments, because Mr. Tsipras in 2015, instead of the broad consensus, has chosen inner-party liquidation and coexistence with the ANELs. Instead of a single strategy towards Turkey, we have Mr Kammenos's variation suits, Mr Tsipras's promises to Erdogan. So we do not have a uniform and effective negotiating tactic, but with division and polarisation, which undermines democracy and institutions. Did you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, hear the Government Representative speak to the New Democracy earlier, about your responsibilities and your behaviour with the slogans 'Juda did not finish in 1973' and the breakdowns of the parades, with your senior officials here today in this Chamber? So if you want to blame others, ask at least one apologies for what you have done and for this climate where fascoids and extreme right-wing people are taking advantage of today. You are now celebrating the congratulations of the European 'no-no-no-clatura', as Mr Tsipras called it, as geopolitical objectives are being pursued in the face of conflicts between the hard core of the European Union and the United States of America and NATO. Mr Kammens supports the government, which in itself harms the national interest, committing that he will not vote at that time - when we do not know - in other words in another House, in another composition and in which he and his party will probably not. We have a theater of irrationality at the expense of national interests and the country's prospect, through manipulations, poles and conflicts! But is there another way? Yes, there is. There are the elections, the change of political correlations with the Change Movement in a decisive role, in a government as it has been described by the Genuine Fofi, with national consensus, social consensus, progressive changes, to overthrow the SYRIZA - ANEL Government's work and commitments and to get out of the deadlock. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u457	Thank you, too. Mr. Lazaridis, now that we've calmed down, if you'd like to take the floor for a minute, to make a repair. You wanted to be placed on staff. Say a few words, let's move on. Now we're all calmer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u458	Thank you, Mr President. I would like the floor for a minute because I have heard Mr Anastasiades before. First of all, I would like to say this: Mr Anastasiades in his naivety confirmed what I said, that today and yesterday we are not discussing the motion of censure - on the agreement or draft agreement, but on the attempt to survive by the New Democracy. Because Mr Anastasiades said - and he revealed it in his place - that after years the agreement will come here to the House to discuss it and we will be called upon to vote. So he disclosed and confirmed that right now...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u459	Is there anything personal about you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u460	I'm coming to this. He made reference to patriotism my own and Mrs. Kollia's. That was totally inappropriate. I really don't understand where Mr. Anastasiades finds the patriotic stature to judge the patriotism of others.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u461	It is clear that everyone has a patriotic stature and nobody is judged here by anyone else on this subject. Please, these things are self-evident.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u462	Mr President, I have not called into question the patriotism of anyone, nor have I judged the patriotism of anyone. That's why I'm asking where the patriotic stature finds. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u463	Mr President, I would just like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u464	No, Mr Anastasiades, please. Nobody's touched you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u465	For a second, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u466	Here, Mr Anastasiades, you have the floor. But that's not right and you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u467	I didn't go to hurt any patriotism. Of course, what he said about my speech is not mentioned anywhere. They're familiar. I don't want to comment on it. I understand the difficulty and pressure Mr Lazaridis has, because I am sure that others say his soul and others will be forced to do so. And I justify him for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u468	We all have difficulties in our lives, Mr Anastasiades. Thank you very much. Mrs Catherine Marcou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u469	Thank you very much, Mr President. First, Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Varoufakis with Napoleon syndrome, but also Mr. Kotzias, bring a cold dish that has broken and served it in a restaurant, thinking that hay is served there. The subject of the deal Mr. Tsipras brought is not just the name. The subject is also accompanying: language and citizenship. They identify the name, they identify it, they give it an astronomical character. Secondly, it turns out we've raised our hands, at least. Negotiations have always been stuck in the pervertalism. By saying that their Macedonian language is clearly a kind of Slavic, it suggests that I, whose special homeland is Macedonia, must at some point be understood, if I am bilingual - say the truth, that there is a world in the region that understands and speaks Slavic - that I am in the first place Macedonia and so at some point I have to realize my real identity. Regular Macedon is Slavos and belongs elsewhere and not to Greece according to SYRIZA and Mr. Tsipras. Let me say that some strange sites talk about over 100 thousand Macedonians living in our Macedonia. Lucky? Third, is this pulled? I think not. Let us assume that in the difficult times that come many citizens continue to be angry and without the memorial-antimony there is always the risk of a fundamental type of new opposition, which can reach the extremes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u470	Please, a little respect. Not to say the third time today for women colleagues. All of this has a dimension in the final analysis. To be the same for all of us. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u471	Fourthly, he is not interested in Mr Tsipras or Mr Kotzias. People do business, and now and then they sell, and no presiding for some Arabic, useful idiot that's always been. I have no problem saying that by turning the ship from the memorandum to more blurred directions, Mr Tsipras manages to have governmental but card partners, in excellent co-operation and cooperation with them. It's always been the same. It is a mistake to consider Mr. Kammenos or Mr. Theodorakis as something different. Most of them are fighting each other for who is the best partner. Fifthly, the way the government is dealing is self-government at least. All this is unprecedented with the secret diplomacy, by closing the agreement to the end, creating a fait accompli and then calling on Mr Mitsotakis to get the chestnuts out of the fire, that is, when the formal and substantial international treaties have been preceded, which will not allow Parliament to ratify a bad, debatable agreement. Sixth, Mr. Tsipras is basically interested in breaking down the PASOK. Only that's how he thinks he can avoid the second crack that comes and sends him, since he doesn't want to run elections, less than 20%. Critical is that. That's what he's interested in. And how will he be inherited to Mr.Mitsotakis the worst, namely the ratification of a haunted agreement or how to deal with the exit from the help of the partners, i.e. the third memorandum, towards a situation that ends the money that has been put aside and the markets will in fact be closed. Mr. Tsipras wants the markets closed, as they are now. Because Mr. Mitsotakis can open them, Mr. Tsipras is struggling today to create the worst preconditions for tomorrow and for the country. Besides, the country doesn't exist for them. They perceive the country as a set of political gangs for the distribution of political loots, which is why they change so easily, and that is why they never come into such a difficult position. Seventh, the government with political trabacism does not ask for anything from the parliament. No vote or vote or anything. He despises the House, the city mocks it, he mocks it, and then breaks it, after he slanders it. If the motion of censure had not been made, the matter would have gone that way. The government is using the motion of censure to open the door to the 'usable idiot', which will walk at the first opportunity. The damage that this government has caused is profound and long-term. The present dimensions of the damage also take a national dimension. There are some who may say: 'Should the matter not have been closed?' Or even there are some businessmen upstairs who can do business, say that. The agreement seals the withdrawal of Greek interests and the advent of German and international actors. Now there is also the formal framework with the Tsipras agreement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirty more seconds. Ninth, the political cost doesn't interest Mr. Tsipras. The interests are of interest to him and are able to 'bettonar' 20% for the second place. I never make bets. But you will see a result in elections that you will not believe. No matter what congratulations you take from Mr. Zaev and Mr. Nimic, they vote for Greek and Greek women here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u472	Please, Mrs. Vanja has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u473	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss New Democracy's motion of censure to the Government on the basis of the country's forthcoming agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia on the name and not just of the neighbouring country. That is why I am particularly addressing today - which is not what I am accustomed to - the colleagues of the Staff Regulations. The most urgent designation for the proposal itself is oxymomile, the least diligent is joke and the one I should normally say is not appropriate to say in Parliament's Chamber. It is the conservative party that had the power to rule the country for most of the time since the establishment of the modern Greek state. This has mainly handled major national issues without - provenly now - the best results. The "Macedonian" issue has been under way for over a century with many aspects and facts of great importance. I don't think it's good for me to go back to history today. It was urgently reintroduced in 1991 and its size appeared to be a modern problem, when a state was created on our northern border, which defined itself as "Macedonia". I will not say what New Democracy has done and what has not done, which is blaming us today. They're facts recently, they're known. But I'm going to stick to the result. With the 1994 Interim Agreement, this country was recognised by our country and international organizations under the provisional name 'First Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia', which, I am sure, also contains the term 'Macedonia'. Then more than 3/4 of the world's countries, among them all the powerful countries of the world, but also our traditional allies, recognize this country under its constitutional name, namely Macedonia, and no one is touched. If that's not his definition of "hidden trash under the carpet and all I care about is power", then who is it? The only obvious benefit from the "Macedonian" or scoppiano, if you want, in the last three decades is the career of Mr. Samaras. With nationalism, in my opinion, to the limits of patriocardialism has made the maximum possible as a professional politician, to become the Prime Minister of the country. Can any of the New Democracy colleagues mention the slightest benefit to the country from the handling of all governments on this matter since 1991? Ladies and gentlemen, to no Greek, but also to me personally, it is pleasing for another country to falsify history, for elements, names and symbols of our own culture. But today, and the past has also been very responsible for the New Democracy, So what's the proposal? Why don't we hear a proposal. Not to solve the problem is not a proposal. The national line, on which the forthcoming agreement, which we are debating, has been negotiated by the New Democracy Government in the recent past, but today it has been abandoned, characterizes it as treacherous, apparently because the extreme right-wing reflexes and elements of the party have been activated. We must be honest and realistic. Personally, I think it is much better, much more appropriate and much more interesting for the country, a geographically defined Northern Macedonia, with a constitution without insulating, without Greek symbols and with all those clarifications, which make it clear that it has nothing to do with ancient Macedonia and its culture, than what is currently prevailing, that is to say, an open problem at our northern borders and a potential threat. Obviously, we could continue to ostracize and avoid any possible costs, indifferent to the good of the country, just as New Democracy does. But we're different. We make different choices and we dare. What is called political cost, but it is not political, is party and personal, is not about us and you see that we are not all professional politicians or genes that we inherited chairs and fringes and we are above all citizens and our future depends on the future of the country, which, unfortunately, is not the case with the traditional elite of the Greek Parliament. I would also like to inform all those ultrapatriots, who have a great deal of ease in counting patriotism their own, but also others, that the criteria are not just the syllables, flags and smart revolutionary posters on social media. Patriotism means, it's, and paying the taxes they pay you without avoiding them, acting financially through offshore, especially if you're a political leader. Patriotism is if you have money, you keep it and you invest it in your country, and you don't make it a little - little abroad, especially if you're a Minister of Finance. Patriotism is not to urge the prosperous citizens to drive their capital out of the country, especially when you are Vice President of the Anti-Policy Party. And, of course, patriotism is to serve your military service properly, especially if you are going to exploit patriotism to become Prime Minister. Of course, the concept of 'patriotism' can be complex and depend on the different parameters for each. Unfortunately, the concepts of common sense in this area are also paraphrased here. The New Democracy expresses the view that the Government has no political legitimacy. What exactly does he mean? That the legally elected government can't rule? So who is entitled to rule? I'm guessing you're not joining your neighbors who say the Army needs to intervene. I also imagine that in today's vote against your proposal, if there is a sign of seriousness, you will stop saying this funny. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. I would particularly like to address my fellow Members with a long parliamentary experience, and I would like to inform them, using my own long experience as a normal citizen, that the debate that has been provoked by the New Democracy, but also many other debates that are taking place in this Chamber, are sterile, counterproductive, indifferent to the citizen and deceptive to the political system as a whole. I understand that the sterile and disfellowshipped environment of the professional politician and the heir does not allow him to understand and therefore address the issues relating to the citizen. However, it cannot be said that Parliament's seat and any public office should not be self-evident. These practices were tested, failed and brought the country to the edge of the cliff. Let us all do the necessary self-criticism and consider what our responsibilities are. And, believe me, it's the highest patriotic duty to give space and not to confuse in a treacherous way someone who can do better than you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u474	Thank you, Mrs. Vanja. The reason for this is Mr. Boras Athanasios, and then Mr. Augias Eleftherios. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u475	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I get to the point, you will allow me to remind you that this New Democracy party is proud of its long-term offer at home and, in particular, to remind the Government Representative that the New Democracy's party is very proud because it is a party that with its National Warlord, Constantine Karamanlis, restored democracy in the country and incorporated the country into the European family. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is a historic, ladies and gentlemen, this motion of censure, which was made for one single reason, on a very large national issue. It is a useful debate that is taking place for two main reasons: One reason is that this unacceptable agreement should be dismantled, because, unfortunately, the government did not give it to us earlier, the Prime Minister did not give it to us earlier, so that this debate could be held and that this agreement could be approved or not. The other reason, the second one, is to get each of the MPs, each of us here responsible for their conscience and history to support this agreement or not. The vote of Members today against the motion of censure opens the way for the press. Don't doubt that. The vote in favour of the motion of censure annuls this agreement for those who are being cut for Macedonia, of course. Our President, the President of the New Democracy Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, asked the beginning for the agreement to be reached in the House to be ratified before going to the Prespes. The government refused it. We asked for it. We asked for this agreement to come only here. But you did not leave us any choice, and that is why we applied to the proposal, which we are concluding today. But to sign tomorrow, on Sunday, to create fait accompli for the country, to commit the country and to hide behind the fact that it did not come to Parliament for a vote and say that, when it comes, they will see how they will be placed, it is the least hypocrisy. I'm not saying anything heavier. We know very well that all the conditions we have set do not exist and do not exist. I'm saying that because someone wonders what our position is. We are trying to understand the feasibility of this haste, if anything, the feasibility of this choice. Do you feel that there were no pressures before on the Greek governments? Do you feel that the external factors, for which you are today being praised and which often want to intervene in our country, have not tried to do so before? Ladies and gentlemen, the government of Kostas Karamanlis, with the Minister of Foreign Affairs Dora Bakoyannis and the Minister of Defence, Mr Meimarakis, has achieved what you have released so easily today. It has achieved a unanimous decision that Skopje will not enter NATO and the European Union unless they resolve the disputes with the neighbour and this is what you are going to do today. You create fait accomplices. The country is bound by the signature tomorrow. That must be understood. Let no one try to mislead the Greeks. They're not handsome. They're brilliant and they've figured it out. The ratification of the agreement, when it is done, has other consequences. But the commitment of the country is made tomorrow. Since I have reached five minutes, Mr President, you will allow me to say very quickly, since my colleagues have analysed in more detail and with very serious arguments what the individual articles of this agreement contain, that we do not have any illusions, that the trial that is being completed today will demonstrate the discrepancy between the choices of the government and the priorities of the parliamentary majority. After all, this disharmony between the choices of society and SYRIZA will reveal it in the polls, whenever they are opened, the Greek people. This time you won't be able to hide behind party lines. You will reveal one - one in front of the Greek people. Now there is no collective responsibility behind which you will also hide your personal responsibility, the personal responsibility that you are bringing and which we are all bringing as Members of Parliament towards history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u476	Thank you. We're on our way, Mr. Bourra. It is Mr Aygeakis, Mr Dendias, Mr Stagioras, then the Minister, Mr Papapas, then Mrs Kerameos, Mr Giannakis, and for two-three minutes, then Mr Fokas. The prediction is that at 17.20 ́ we can start with the political leaders, with Mr. Leventis first. This is what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Mr. Ignace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u477	Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in the shadow of the proud negotiations of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, of the proud negotiations that have led to two additional memoranda, to bring the capital controls and the economic strangulation of the market. You have achieved the debt burden by 100 billion in one night. You have made a referendum to 'yes' 'yes' 'no' and to bring numerous measures of what you initially refused. You have succeeded in reducing the income of citizens, increasing taxes, escalating insurance contributions and, of course, increasing VAT. Now you're bringing us another, also proud, negotiation after six months of secret diplomacy. You are bringing a bad agreement, which accepts the Macedonian language and the Macedonian ethnicity for our northern neighbour, the worst agreement that one might have imagined, an agreement that constitutes an unacceptable national retreat. The masks fall and manifest the falseness of the government and the stumbling of the Greek people by Mr. Tsipras and the colonel of Panos Kammenos. Ladies and gentlemen, is it accidental that this unprecedented juncture, at the time when we are discussing the fourth memorandum, Mr Tsipras is preparing to sign an agreement with the government of Skopje, an agreement which actually binds our country, a agreement which creates a fait accompli and will be very difficult for us to change the next day, an agreement which affects our national interests and offends our history? This timing of critical foreign and economic policy issues is not at all random. It is a conscious choice of Government Tsipras - Kammenos. You have celebrated an agreement that you say gives a solution to what you simply call "acquisence" of foreign policy. And you're doing this not because it's for the benefit of the country. You do it because that's what the international player wants. You've become the best dealers of foreign interests. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the proud negotiations bring tragedies to our country. This is a provocative agreement, which includes unacceptable positions from our permanent national positions. It is a problematic agreement that will cause major problems in the future. The acceptance of Macedonian language and Macedonian ethnicity constitute an unacceptable national retreat. Mr. Tsipras in his complaint argued that they agreed to rename their country to the Republic of Severna Makedonija, namely in our language in the Republic of Northern Macedonia. However, this is not the case either from the Greek or from the English text. Where is the 'Severna Makedonija', really, in the agreement you submitted to the House? Mr. Tsipras lied even in his proclamation addressing the Greek people. The deal failed. He failed to bind Skopje with the erga omnes, that is, a name for all uses and against all, which is our permanent national line. It is unheard of that the retreat agreement does not even determine in the maximum time for FYROM to fulfil its obligations. It is foreseen that official documents intended for the international use of the name will be changed within five years, while the change in documents intended for internal use is linked to the development of the Macedonian accession process in the European Union. In simple terms, erga omnes is shifted into an uncertain future, just as the scorching side has sought from the outset. Today's acronyms about the abbreviations of the name - internet, commercial uses, etc. - they stay as they are. The only change the SYRIZA - ANEL government has made concerns car plates, please. It is also shifted for the future and the settlement of trade names and names. These will be judged by an international group of experts within three years without anyone being able to anticipate the decisions of this group today. The transfer of the Skopje's obligations to apply the Agreement to an uncertain future, as well as the concession of the use of the current codes, makes the notorious "erga omnes". Ladies and gentlemen, the most provocative and unjustified retreat of the government is to grant the use of the surname "Macedonian" for ethnic and language. This is the first time recognized by a government actor of our country as being a so-called "Macedonian" and a so-called "Macedonian language", an unacceptable development that nourishes the root of scepticism and strengthens it. It is also very problematic that Article 7 of the agreement. It states that each country will interpret the term "Macedonia" and "Macedonia" at will. This negates the falsification of the government's argument that we are supposedly taking Macedonia back and its history. The propaganda of the Skopje is actually strengthened, that the ancient Macedonians were not Greek and had nothing to do with ancient Greek culture. Even more challenging in the agreement is that it is planned to set up a multidisciplinary committee, which will examine, he says, the way in which the history of both countries is taught, in order to lift all-collective references. In simple terms, the government accepts that Greece should also be checked for possible reinstatement propaganda in the story taught by children in schools. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bad deal. In a few hours' time we will be called upon to vote and the responsibility of all of us is individual, beyond that of our parties. I am addressing most of the SYRIZA Members of Northern Greece. Take responsibility on you, take responsibility on your backs. But most importantly, I address to the ANEL MPs, who have built a whole theory, you have built a career on patriots. Do you have the courage today to say that you are supporting a government that, from tomorrow in the Prespecies, will have given Macedonian language and ethnicity? You have a responsibility on you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Hypocrisy's over. In a few minutes everyone has to take their responsibilities. And you, Mrs. Kollia, who's constantly protesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u478	Thank you. Mr Nikolaos - George Dendias. Here comes Mr. Stavros and Mr. Pappas. Please facilitate the process. At around 17.20 the political leaders will start talking. Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u479	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with what the Government representative said earlier, to which the Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Kostis Hadjidakis, adequately responded. However, I would like to draw your attention beyond that: Do not allow the Golden Dawn to use the 'nationalists'. Chrysayites are not nationalists, ladies and gentlemen, they are Nazis. Hitler was not in favor of the nation, he was in favor of racial superiority. So the House must not give them any ground. And, of course, it is unacceptable that the government should try to make the New Democracy even at a minimum responsible for the dreadful phenomenon of the Golden Dawn. I now come to the question of the motion of censure. The motion of censure represents and expresses, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy's overall assessment of governmental work. Firstly, for the economy, for the unnecessarily fourth memorandum, for the reduction of pensions, for the increase of HICPIA, for the reduction of tax, for the freezing of public property. In the institutional context, in the attacks on justice, in the resignation of the application of the rules of the rule of law concerning the protection and security of Greek citizens, in education, with general equality, in immigration, with the refusal to have borders, with the disastrous reality of migrants who have remained in Greece, with the fragmentation, if not the fragmentation of Community funds, in the party enlargement of the state, in the recruitment of posterity. But I also come to the agreement, which has given rise to this debate. I'm clear. In the context of realism, not my desire, I have over time accepted the need for a complex name erga omnes. This is historically the position of the New Democracy party. There are two problems here, however. The first is the problem of constitutional legitimacy. The Prime Minister negotiates and commits or will commit the country by signing it, without enjoying the specific issue of the support of the Greek Parliament, namely the Greek people. The government partner, the ANELs, has declared their opposition to this agreement in the most fascinating way. And I think the government spokesman, who was previously put on this, is also ignoring that there is a precedent in this House on this government. When in 2015, after the referendum, Mr Varoufakis and Mr Tsipras knew he did not have the support of the parliamentary majority, he did not go to negotiate. He came here, before the Greek Parliament correctly and requested authorisation and took it by formal law, with Law No.4333/2015. So I ask, at this juncture, which has no power, which has no parliamentary support, what has changed, ladies and gentlemen? In addition to the absolute parliamentary vigour of which we are witnessed, I address to you, friends and friends of SYRIZA Members. Can you assure yourself first and then the electorate at the end of us, if you want, that this agreement is the best possible? Are you sure that, instead of negotiating in secret, if he had retired the entire national log, if he had consulted directly and directly with the Opposition in the first place, instead of trying to divide it, if he multiply, the national forces, if he had accumulated, instead of subtracting from the capital of national effort, would he not have achieved something significantly more than that? Because, ladies and gentlemen, lies are bad! You are negotiating in favour of achieving an objective which many of you have been proclaimed to be unbelievable. So, is it ever possible to achieve the maximum with your starting point? Could the Macedonian citizen of Northern Macedonia have only remained a ‘citizen of northern Macedonia’? Could the ‘Macedonian language’ have become ‘Slavic language’, as set out below? Ladies and gentlemen, I believe, of course, in a better agreement that could be achieved as a result of the negotiation of the Skopje, but as a joint effort with the small neighbouring country, as a joint success for a common future within the visions of King Fereus. We are not insecure or fearful in the New Democracy. We hope in a Macedonia not an instant imprisonment of enclosed Hellenism, but as a highway to the Balkans of the ideals of European Greece. We hope in a Thessaloniki not only administrative co-chair of a small and honorable Greece, but also economic and cultural capital of the 21st century. We hope in a northern Greece full of extroversion and self-confidence, based on its cultural excellence and tradition, Aristotle, Vergina, Gregory Palama, the quiet ones, the Pentzikis, the generation of the 30s, the poets, the Christianos and, if you like, the beloved Dionysis of Savvopoulou. It is a pity, ladies and gentlemen, that the Prime Minister of the country goes to Prespes without having a good agreement with the wishes of all the Greek people. It's a pity, because he chose to just represent SYRIZA in such an agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u480	Thank you. Mr Stavros will now be given the floor. Then the Minister will speak, Mr. Pappas. Mr Stavura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u481	Ladies and gentlemen, the Qualified Opposition, with a sense of responsibility towards the history and perspective of the country and the citizens, has tabled a motion of censure against the government. It is historically confirmed that the New Democracy over time supports the finding of a mutually acceptable solution between Greece and Skopje, a solution which respects, however, the real historical, national data. Today, the SYRIZA and ANEL government brings an agreement that was formulated in secret, an agreement which, with twists and self-confidence, promotes self-confidence, not to mention the sensitivities of the citizens and the positions of the parties. The Government failed to use the acquis of national consultation on this critical national issue, which was accumulated by the previous governments, primarily the New Democracy. It is sad that the current government, in order to cover weaknesses, failures and errors, is engaged in selective, fragmented divestments in the nearby and distant past. It uses claims that are historically unsubstantiated, that are essentially false and nationally harmful. I will not follow this path, although I could table a long chain of speeches and practices by supporters of the timeless account of Macedonia, as well as his last expression, by a series of surnamed SYRIZA officials who sit at ministerial headquarters, who even at the most critical phase, in 2008, urged the neighboring country to be given the name 'Macedonia' neto. So SYRIZA is not entitled to teach us lessons. Ladies and gentlemen, the government despises the Greek people. He is responsible for the genuine sensitivities of the majority. It denounces the National Parliament. It is served on a recital of hypocrisy and ostrichism. It goes into a transnational agreement, without political legitimacy, with an incentive, willingness, an agreement that produces international results, some of which will acquire the character of the fait accompli. The government has been rushing and handing over the two keys, those of NATO and the European Union, keys that our country has held since 2008 and handing them over without guaranteeing our fair national interests, covering heavy retreats with great verbal structures. They are retreats, having recognized, for the first time, the existence of a Macedonian language and Macedonian nationality, so also of the corresponding identity. Retreats, after breaking the erga omnes in terms of citizens and languages without any commonly accepted term for all uses, by guaranteeing Macedonian nationalism. This is therefore a bad agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, at this critical juncture we have a duty from history and a responsibility for the future to stand up to circumstances, unite and not divide society. To face the challenges and risks with unity, with responsibility, with unity, with determination, with confidence, with dignity, with pride. To work hard with solidarity and cohesion. The New Democracy on its long route has proved to be in a national position. It is not politically speculated on the problems of the country and of the citizens. Political and social consultation is a necessary treaty for the smooth and upward course of the country. But this must be built over time in terms of honesty and national responsibility. It cannot be achieved by puppy attempts to spread and transfer responsibilities, as SYRIZA is doing today. It cannot be achieved with opportunistic approaches and dangerous acrobatics, as SYRIZA is doing today. National understanding requires self-awareness, self-criticism, honesty of intentions, clarity of positions and above all requires credibility and trust. All this is, for the current government, insufficient goods. The construction of SYRIZA and ANLE has been tested, measured with the problems and it has been found that it cannot raise the burden of the country's governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u482	Please come to Stepma, Minister Nikolaos Pappas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u483	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are a few days, a few weeks before the completion of the third programme. The economy is recovering, unemployment is falling, industrial production is rising, tourism is going for the best year and we would say that it is time to discuss it, to assess the recent economic past and the policies that have been pursued and to discuss honestly what we should do in the future. But no. The Civic Opposition puts forward a motion of censure, because it says “our handling at the “Macedonian” was the drop that ended the glass”. No glass is over. The glass will soon be in 3/4, because we will be spending the third year of our own governance by the four. And arm yourselves with patience, because it has a second glass, you will lose them and the 2019 elections, gentlemen! The left parentheses have been overthrown and started to haunt you - and those who support you - the possibility of the new four-year period of Tsipras. And today and yesterday, two very serious political battles were decided: Firstly, you have given us the opportunity to confirm Parliament's confidence twice. This is the first battle to be judged. And the second is the battle of your inner-party, because Mr. Samaras today torn apart what was left of Mr. Mitsotakis' liberal costume. So what do we see? The Chief who recorded your history low, 18%, to express and applaud him and upright, of course. Well done, congratulations. We hear Bucharest was a bluff and it wasn't the big strategic move. We see terrible attacks on the President of the Republic and terrible attacks and slandering on the Foreign Minister. We see cries, unfortunately, against an agreement from a extreme right, which made a career on the Macedonian issue. Unfortunately for you, if today Constantine Mitsotakis ruled and exercised the policy he had exercised during his administration, Kyriakos Mitsotakis would overthrow him along with Antonis Samaras. We've seen more. We also saw the bride asking for a coup d'état and turning into a supreme island when the prosecutor deals with him. You were encouraged by what the Government spokesman told you. Listen to me, gentlemen. The power of the fascist is not in its fist and kick. He's in the tolerance of the roundabout. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And our democracy suffers great harm when you adopt its agenda. You made this historic mistake in your own governance too. I remind you of verbal attributes, far-right slippers of your then-government, saying that our cities have become illegal immigrants. So when you actually fight the Golden Dawn and bring in the living room its ideas and rhetoric, you hurt democracy. This should keep in mind and be very measured. Not applaud when Mr. Samaras accuses us of this Step by the party that governs nationalism. A little metaphor and respect!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u484	Don't move the finger!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u485	Don't react.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u486	Mr. Voridis, of course we will vote proudly. We will solve all the problems that you have created, which you want a dreadful country and a fearful people, a people who are afraid of, and their surroundings, a people who cannot afford to lift their backs. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] There are two parties that openly call for participation in today's rally. The Golden Dawn and the New Democracy. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u487	Where did you hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u488	You're not calling? Good. So your Vice-President has called openly and do not pretend.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u489	Weren't you angry? Wasn't that golden?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u490	If you have a little temper and you hear me, you can answer it if you want. So there's another inconsistency. You are going to slander the amazing, great movement of the "indignant" movement. In the grand movement of the "indignant", there was fascist seed there, but it did not grow and it did not crash, because there were other forces that played their historic role there. That's the truth! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, when there are popular outbreaks fascism everywhere will seek to go down its seed. The question is whether political forces will be found to water him and fertilize him politically to pluck him. That's the difference. You don't like the deal. That's your right. You disagree with the European People's Party. You disagree with the President of Cyprus, Nikos Anastasiades, who on his own initiative called the Prime Minister to congratulate him. That's your right. It is not your right, however, to lie in the world and especially in the world that has increased sensitivities and has come down to the rally or intends to come down again. This is the world that needs to know the truth. And you have to tell him not to pretend here for two and a half days. What do you propose today? What's your name? Have you arrived or have you not come to accept and suggest "Macedonia - Skopje"? Did Mr Samaras or not sign a document with reference to the Republic of Macedonia in 1991? Explain to the world that goes down to the rally, why are Gruevski and Ivanov accusing Zaev of national meditation, the same phrase that you use for Tsipras? What's happened? Come face the truth. Finally tell the truth about what your resignation has done over the past twenty-five years and about what he has said. Antonis Samaras said in 1992: “Constantine Mitsotakis recognizes the right for the Skopje to call themselves “Macedonians”. Constantine Mitsotakis in 1993 said: “Samaras had accepted to the Council of Foreign Ministers that this Republic should be mentioned under the name “Macedonia”. Constantine Mitsotakis again in 1993 said: "I certainly accepted the double name." Antonis Samaras in 1993 said: "Popolitan and State Secretary for Foreign Affairs of Skopje proceeded with a Mitsotakis command to sell the name of Macedonia". Antonis Samaras in 2002 said: "Mitsotakis told me that the name issue does not consider it important." Adonis Georgiadis in 2008 said: "Incredible assump of Kostas Karamanlis, nationally dangerous Dora Bakoyannis". That is why the line now prevailed that Bucharest was not the great foreign policy move, it was a bluff, which you put on the table because you knew that the other side would reject it. Antonis Samaras in 2009 said: "If they accept a change in their constitutional name, we should also discuss what should be done next." Dora Bakoyannis in 2011 said: “Mr. Samaras is a sad chapter of the scout.” That's the management you've done. And where did we come from now? We have now come to the point, which, unfortunately, your Chief, as the Prime Minister said, is a sad speech by Mr Samaras. And as Mrs Dora Bakoyannis said, “Mr Samaras is a sad chapter in the “Macedonian”. They're both right. Make the gathering. But why is all this happening? Why are they happening? What's your central problem? Your central problem is that the promise you made to your fans does not come when the country's governance changed in 2015. The country recovers, unemployment falls and your extreme neoliberal programme realizes that it can only be implemented under emergency conditions under a new memorandum, under conditions of shadow memorandum, if any, but not under conditions of normal financing of the economy. Do you really think you can convince the majority of the Greek people that collective bargaining will not regain, so that the minimum wage will not increase, so that you can make a new wave of redundancies in the public, hidden behind Mr. Mitsotakis's 1 to 5? Listen to this! Mrs Gerovasili goes to the negotiation, wins 1 to 1, and Mr Mitsotakis goes out over what the institutions have accepted and says "no, 1 to 5 in the public". This package, this program, it also needs external coercion and that's what you can't stand, that's what you can't. I don't have much time. I will omit some of what I wanted to say. I want to report to the Change Movement and Mrs. Gennamas. Mr Alivizatos said that 'the agreement covers 80% of Greek positions'. Top executives both of the River and of the Democratic Association say that the agreement is in the right direction. Mr Venizelos had as Foreign Minister a very specific position in the UN. Mr. Samaras informed us that it was his personal place. It's not his personal place. It was the fixed position of Greek foreign policy. With Mr Venizelos, we have conflicted, but you two days here are dealing with the argument that there are different positions within the government partners and that you, in other words, had governance, in which Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs had different positions on this crucial foreign policy issue, which we will resolve as we should. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] European Socialists welcome the agreement, but, unfortunately, Mrs Gennimata chooses a attitude that is inconsistent with these things, which I personally find difficult to explain. I close with this: The country comes back to light and some insist on staying in the fog while the country comes to light on all issues. And because I heard a reference to Yannis Richos: Yannis Richos in the "World Neighbourhoods" wrote "We don't know what the fog is. We, you say, make everything in the light." All in light, therefore, both for the 'Macedonian' and for the economy, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u491	Thank you very much. Please Mrs. Keramemo to come to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u492	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is governed by an irresponsible, unreliable and prosecuting government, a government in which government partners are proposing toward all their own interests and their personal political survival, a government in which government partners agree a card on major issues of governance and country. All they care about is staying in the chair of power, in every way, at all costs and for as long as possible. In the face of that government, there is a responsible Civilianism, a political force that acts in the public interest and in this regard the national interest. Following the government's disastrous policy on the finances of the country, on employment, on public health, on justice and on education, the drop in the glass has come: inconveniences to national issues too. And that is why the New Democracy has tabled the motion of censure against the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has reached agreement with the neighbouring country with the look on the internal political scene and the desire to strengthen the divisional climate that has so methodically cultivated over the last three and a half years. Ladies and gentlemen, if he was really interested in the Prime Minister, if he was interested in getting the best result for the country, the first thing he would do would be to build a cross-party national line, just as the New Democracy in 2008 did, so that the country could go like a fist in the negotiations with the neighbouring country. But he didn't do it and he didn't because he was only interested in how he would corner his political opponents. Not the country, ladies and gentlemen, it didn't go like a fist, not even the government went like a fist. It appeared in the negotiations like a scorpowder. The result is that it has brought about a bad agreement for our country, an agreement that could be much better for our national interests, an agreement which, for the first time in history, recognises Macedonian ethnicity and Macedonian language for FYROM citizens, an agreement for which there is no guarantee of a single name with power of erga omnes. Why? But because otherwise the country will be called "North Macedonia", and the language and ethnicity, "Macedonian". It is an agreement that the country now grants its major negotiating weapon, namely the authorisation to join NATO and the start of negotiations on membership of the European Union and brings the country forward without a return. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, there is a bead underneath.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u493	Yeah, not bells yet, but there's a discomfort and fatigue. Please be quiet. Carry on, Mrs. Kerameau.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u494	It is an agreement that cuts the solution and leaves critical fields wide open, such as school books, symbols and statues, trade agreements, trademarks. Ladies and gentlemen, this agreement, this bad and unacceptable agreement the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs do not have the political legitimacy to sign it. Why? But because the two government partners, SYRIZA and ANEL, do not agree exactly on this issue, on this matter of the agreement. Mr Kammenos and his parliamentary group have clearly opposed this agreement. Monthly and beloved to their government partners, under the hospitable cover of their authority, while disagreeing, while shouting nationalist slogans, at the same time give their absolute support to the Prime Minister, in order for him to go to sign this agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, Eugene Jonesko and the theatre of irrationality are pouring out in front of its drunken irrationality rather than this coexistence. Ladies and gentlemen, you have exceeded every sense of political hypocrisy. On the one hand, you say 'no' to the agreement, and on the other hand, you give the Prime Minister a green light to commit the country by signing this same agreement. An agreement which binds our country for the next few centuries, an agreement which creates legal effects and cannot be revoked. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the ANELs, the press statement 'I disagree with the agreement and I will vote against it when the time comes, but now I am voting in favour of the government', goes beyond any precedent on the altar of political hypocrisy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening on your day has no precedent in Greek political and constitutional history. You do not hesitate to directly insult the parliamentary citizens. You do not hesitate to succumb to the institutions in the name of your unclean thirst for power. You do not hesitate to dismantle nationally acquired possessions. And for all this, you will be strictly judged both by Greek citizens and by history itself. I shall close, Mr President, with a proposal for something Mr Pappas said. Minister, let me remind you that with Golden Dawn you voted in 2014. You have gathered forces with the Golden Dawn to bring the government of Samaras down, the Government of New Democracy. So one sentence: At the house of the hanger, Minister, they do not speak of rope! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u495	Mr. Giannakis has the floor. Mr Fokas will then be given the floor for two minutes from his position. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u496	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the three and a half years that I have been in the parliamentary seats this agreement is the most inappropriate, humiliating and toxic we have discussed. Our national dignity is offended and thousands of years of Greek history are cancelled. The soul of an entire people is being touched. We've put up with the memos. We tolerated overtaxation. We tolerated wage cuts and pensions. We even tolerated the criminal sale of public property for a hundred years to lenders. But our national dignity is not a budgetary measure. The economic crisis will be overtaken some time. The country will once again stand on its feet. But the transfer of our national rights, the counterfeiting of historical continuity is not reversed and the new generations will continue to find it. You voluntarily opened Halos's amusement. It is a national humiliation of what you are about to sign on Sunday at the Prespes without Parliament's approval, without even the approval of your Ministerial Council and with a 85% of the Greek people to you. You assign Macedonia's historic name, which is the main vehicle of alutism. You recognize Macedonian ethnicity in the Skopje. You recognize them as a Macedonian language. You accept the change of our school books, canceling and falsifying our history. Lie when you say you adopted the national line for erga omnes. Finally, the name is double. The Macedonians inside their country will be called "Macedonians", while outside they will be called "Macedonian citizens of northern Macedonia", as if someone would read the hypothesis. Don't laugh and don't pretend. "Macedonians" will be said everywhere. Lie when you say there was a name. There is a great difference that you deliberately hide. At that time Skopje was a province of unified Yugoslavia, a creation of Tito, a pretext and a pursuit of the creation of "Great Macedonia". You claim that the previous composite name was also negotiated. Yeah, but none of them agreed, none of them signed. Those who put wide signatures are the twin Tsipras - Kotzia and only the ones, with government support of course Panos Kammenos. And I'm sure they don't feel any guilt, because that's what they thought, and that's what they always supported. They have always believed that Skopje should be recognised as "Macedonia". I will not go into the text of the two hundred SYRIZA officials who have proposed 'Macedonia', many of whom are currently sitting in the ministerial seats and even in the Bureau of Parliament. But I would remind you that in 2008, when Costas Karamanlis gave his historic battle in Bucharest, SYRIZA's youth took part in solidarity events and have since called for the name of the site as "Macedonia". Not only did you deny everything, but you succeeded exactly the opposite. The Greek people rediscovered the tears of Karamanlis, the timeless and stable position of Antonis Samaras for the name's failure to be given and of course relived Kostas Karamanlis' national position, which categorically denied Macedonian ethnicity to the Skopje, and the historic veto for the entry of the neighbour to NATO. With this agreement, the only state that will internationally be called "Macedonia" is Skopje, and even with your own Greek signature. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you realise that this agreement is being experienced by Hellenism as a national lobotomy, as a national amputation, which will destabilize the entire region in the future. I wish I'd fall out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u497	Mr. Fokas, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u498	Thank you, Madam President. For the proposal of distrust that refers to the economy and Skopje, I will say that in the economy you have screwed up, starting in 2015 with various experiments and we have reached the summer to need 80 billion, to be humiliated by the Prime Minister after seventeen hours of negotiation and to be humiliated with him and the entire Greek people. For the economy, you didn't do anything. You've done nothing for free professionals. With respect to what the Prime Minister promised in 2016 in the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki on "fresh" debts of free professionals, you did nothing. You've brought a new 27% tax. You have brought new taxes, direct and indirect, and you have kicked out business in Skopje, Albania, Bulgaria. In large investments you also did not bring one, but also the company "ELLENIC FRYSOS S.A." you are trying to get rid of it. The Sheikh of Qatar, too, expelled him, who sent three unanswered letters to the Prime Minister. As for Skopje, I have to say that "Greece is Macedonia and Macedonia is Greece". No one has the right to sell the name "Macedonia", to grant it, especially when the Greek people go down to two grand rallys. In Thessaloniki, five hundred thousand people participated, without systemic channels being there, but only the "VERGINA TELECOMMATION" covers the event. I would also like to ask the Minister: what is the name 'BERGINA TELECOMMATION'? In Athens, one and a half million people protested for Macedonia. Storms were followed in all Macedonian cities and you do not count on the Greek people. Minister, am I a Macedonian or a southern Macedonian? Is Slavic and Bulgarian a Macedonian language? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please don't yell, because I'm a professional, I've got a badge and I'm not a professional decoyer. A little respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u499	Please be quiet. And you, Mr. Fokas, are done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u500	You're playing the dice in the country. This week, the worst measures have been passed for the Greek people, with pension cuts, increases of HISPIA, reduction of tax, and you are now coming to deliver our Macedonia. We do not accept that. Macedonia is one and it is Greece!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u501	Thank you. I call on Mr Leventis, President of the Group of the European People's Party and European Democrats to take part in the Rainbow Group. Here, Mr Leventis, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u502	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras, in the first communication we had - not the last - had said to me: first they will make the constitutional change, first they will do everything and then I will give them permission to go to NATO. From what you realize, without doing anything, they'll get an invitation to NATO, unless you don't understand it. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I don't want you to answer me, gentlemen. It's true. You won't answer. When you say what you say, I didn't see you interrupt. Essential respect! Madam President, this is a mess. You keep talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u503	Please, quiet, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u504	All Members of Parliament and the New Democracy and SYRIZA say exactly the same. Those of you who have spoken are saying the same thing. A hundred people from over 100 of them say the same thing. We're tired of hearing the same thing. Let the Greek people hear something too. The old Constantine Karamanlis, when he went and signed the Zurich and London agreement, came here to this Chamber and said "The Cyprus agreement has been resolved". And he was George Papandreou and said to him: "Now the tragedy begins." So be careful, too, because without the gentlemen doing anything, they will be invited to join NATO and the European Union and then you will be accountable to the Greek people. You will be accountable, because this produces results, i.e. the invitation. It's not that whatever time we want, we take her back. And I also hear them say that today is the vote on the Memorandum. What today is for the memos? Isn't Mr. Tsipras going to the Prespes tomorrow? Won't it go? After this vote, will Mr Tsipras not go with Mr Kotzias to commit the country? Is that a conversation for the memorials? So stop mocking in this Chamber and pretending. There's limits to the endurance of the world. In the meantime, Mr Kotzias, in my view, as my lawyers say, is not legalised to sign, because it is a major national issue that is negotiating and must have a decision of a Ministerial Council or a CSCE, it must be authorised. In view of the differentiation between the two partners, Mr Tsipras also abstained from convening either the Ministerial Council or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mr. Kotzias is on his own.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u505	Four cabinets.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u506	Yes, Mr. Kotzia. But be careful, too. Is that right? Because now it's the majority. Tomorrow you may be accused, Mr. Kotzia, accounting. You could answer for what you're doing tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u507	Are you threatening me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u508	Mr. Leventis, speak of what you want. Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u509	What about me? Why? Am I charged, Mr. Kotzia? Everyone who puts a signature, particularly a signature that is contrary to the will of the people, is also accountable. What do you want? Do you have the infallible? Nobody is being prosecuted for anything? All public men, those who perform public duties, have their responsibilities too. Because in this place so far they're getting away with it clean? There was the netting of PASOK - New Democracy, and when the New Democracy committed a crime, PASOK did it. When he did the PASOK, the New Democracy was giving it. And we used to say that no one in this place is punished. But that may not be the case in the future, because here, the concession of Macedonia, is something very serious. You may not have thought of how serious it is. There is an individual responsibility for each Member. So I do not threaten you, Mr Kotzia, just ask you to think about it before you put your signature, as I said to Mr Tsipras - it was here - when you set ten polls, to get Samara and Pikrame out, because what he is doing now for others, may others do it for him, maybe tomorrow some polls will stand for him. It's a loan! You should know that. One thing that's been happening all this time, all these years, is what? That the parties are not saying their position on the Skopje issue. They say 'complex name'. Why don't you say 'including the word 'Macedonia'? Why do you in the New Democracy not say that you went to Bucharest having the proposal 'Macedonia (Skopje)'? Why don't you say it? You say 'complex name'. Vangelis Venizelos went to international organizations in 2014 and said that Greece's position is "complicated name" and I don't know if he talked about "erga omnes" and the rest. He did not, however, say “includes the word “Macedonia”. Why are you embarrassed? You're obviously ashamed of what you're going to do tomorrow. In order to constantly overthrow the complete word, what does it mean? It means you're ashamed of yourself. The New Democracy has always had its place of a complex name. He had it uploaded on the Foreign Ministry website. So what do I think? Tsipras on the phones that are being made to me keeps saying that the New Democracy had given it since 2008. Even so - to accept that it is so and that the New Democracy did - after the New Democracy had given it, did he, too? Is it legal about the misery of the New Democracy to commit its own misery? I don't get it. Is it an excuse for a Prime Minister that the previous ones gave it up? We understood that. Previous ones gave it up. And what if the other guys gave it to you? You will sign, Mr. Tsipras. You will sign, Mr. Kojia. The story will write that you're justified because Bakoyannis gave it to you too? Do you think that's an adequate excuse? As far as the people are concerned, the people have so far not reacted, because the issue has not been approached to burn it. The fire wasn't here. Now the fire's coming. Now the people see the word 'Macedonia' being given, and that word contains the most assimilating that can be contained in a concession. Now, then, the people are reacting. Now we need New Democracy and SYRIZA and you all to back off and say 'in line with the will of the people, our American friends, our German friends, we cannot grant it, we cannot allow the Greek people to give the word'. This is political bravery, not to complete this crime you're going to do. You're going to make a crime based on the fact that the crime was the same thing the previous people did. This Chamber has a mission to cancel the crimes and execute the orders of the Greek people. This mandate is given by the Chamber, not to complete the crimes. In Skopje, they held a council of political leaders. What have we done here? First he made the deal and then the House was called. What did the House know about what she was going to do? What information did we have on such a big subject? Does that explain the way? Historically, will the historian be able to explain that the Prime Minister has neither convened a council of political leaders nor a parliament and after the agreement has been prepared and after the New Democracy has submitted a motion of censure, so we have come to this Chamber to discuss the scepticism? They went to sign without a debate in this Chamber. If the proposal for distrust of the New Democracy did not take place and this debate would not take place. Mr Tsipras would therefore be signatory to Parliament completely bypass. These are parliamentary coups, ladies and gentlemen. They are not legal acts. So the right thing is that the parties, seeing the now shaped will of society, are all backwards. We're all making the wrong assessments. We can all be mistaken on various issues, but we must also have bravery, when the people form a mature position, to succumb to the will of the people and not, as Mr Tsipras is doing now, and he can hardly convince the people that he is right. Prime Ministers who believe they are right, come down to the people with arguments, campaign and then ask for their opinion. If Mr Tsipras or Mr Kotzias or the government believe that they have any arguments, get to the people with these arguments, convince the people, make a referendum, and then I will praise you for these things where you are going. I mean for the Americans two things. I've never seen any more disgrace. For two months now, when my last meeting with the American Ambassador took place, I saw him extremely determined. 'We must be done' - it says - 'June'. I was talking about this with MPs from all the wings and they said, "Buy, it's hard, it takes time." But I saw in this man's gaze that he could barely get through. I saw that Parliament wanted, the political life of Greece, slaves in front of it. I saw he didn't raise any objections. I ask if he would ask Turkey for anything similar, would he? To us she had the argument: 'Russia didn't put her nose in the Balkans'. And when it did not reach this point, they added another argument: 'Turkey will not put her nose in Skopje, because it is training' - it says - 'Turkey already'. Listen to the US arguments: "Don't Russia put its nose in the Balkans and Turkey does not put its nose in Skopje. We must make progress." Instead of pushing them to conform, a twenty-year-old state, pushing Greece, a country with four thousand years of history. This is the attitude of the Americans. So this was to Mr Tsipras and the government of the Americans and the Germans is not to the credit of the political world. These 'bravos, go ahead, you're nice' is not only to honor because you declared left-wings, but because for the whole Chamber it's not nice to do whatever the Americans want in this place. I wrote to Mr Mitsotakis and asked him to say that the New Democracy as a party will denounce, when it comes, the agreement and make it annulled and, furthermore, will never use the word 'Macedonia' in the name of Skopje. She didn't answer me, and that puts me in more thoughts, because I remember that at the rally, Dora wasn't going, she was, like others. I don't want to expose names. At the rally, you of the New Democracy, and the reason why you are holding this stand is because you believe in giving the name to the composite name. That's what the New Democracy thinks. He just saw that he's losing the world and dragging himself into a change of place. That's what she does. I think PASOK does the same. They see the inflatable sea of opposition to giving and, in order to be destroyed, changing attitudes. Why did PASOK say, "If the anti-corrosion agents are gone, we should give". That was the stop. "If the paratrophics leave, we should give." So this Chamber, about all the wings it was called "Macedonia". And the people are coming now. The people won't be taken into consideration? Convince him that he must be given, then. Get down to the people and convince him. What are you going to sign tomorrow? What right are you going to sign? Get rid of the people, and I'm right next to you. You go, raping the people, and that's dishonest, Mr. Kotzia. It's dishonest what you're going to do tomorrow! And you've put all the parrots on the channels. I used to know the politicians were on the channels. Now they've stopped dating politicians and they're getting some paid-outs of each other, and there's some New Democracy wells coming up, SYRIZA. What system is that? There was a television theater the other day on a channel and he said something in front of which I'm bowing down. They all said in favor of SYRIZA, give it up, etc. Most of the panels were SYRIZA's. So she goes out and says: "For taxes, for all you did the Memorandums, the wage and pension cuts didn't care about me, but if you gave "Macedonia" you were burned." [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] You're laughing, huh? You know laughter is the stay of crying. Anyone who laughs a lot today is crying a lot tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u510	Come on, Mr President, don't even answer because we don't have unlimited time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u511	It's playing the courgettes, then. According to SYRIZA, it was the New Democracy that gave it, the old Karamanlis in 1997 who had recognized the language and the younger Karamanlis in 2008 who, according to Mr. Tsipras, also gave it to him. According to the New Democracy, it's your fault, after you sign, he says, you. What's that supposed to mean? If you were the New Democracy, would you say no to the Americans? That's the question. If the New Democracy ruled and the bomb was digging in your hands, would you have the mental power to say no to the Americans? When did your party say no to the Americans? Never! [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] They say that the Centro Association is a party which, while it says it is progressive, acts as a conservative. She believes a lot at home, in religion. I'll give you an answer. The great leaders of the Centre, George Papandreou, Plastiras, George Black, who were deeply democrats, and religion and homeland were burnt. They never went against official religion and never went against the concept of homeland. As democrats, however, you must run four, five centuries to reach honesty and democracy, George Mavros, George Papandreou, General Plastira, Eleftherios Venizelos and all these leaders. The center space has this idiom. In democracy, he does the same thing in the country as in the country. And religion poorly in some bills you have completely ignored. It's not your honor, because religion makes a lot of mistakes, but it does things that were the work of the state. You know that? He's doing things that were the state's job to do. The Church has made its mistakes, but it has also made a huge offer in the country. And it is not nice to ignore it completely, to deceive it and say, "Come on, Holy Synod" in such a disgraceful way. Who are you to deceive institutions that have become one with the people? Who are you to come today to dismantle the connections of centuries that have been created between faith and the people?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u512	Mr President, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u513	Mr. Janakopoulos came out here and said Samaras does what the Golden Dawn did was because of Mitsotakis. What you said isn't nice. In other words, the New Democracy put him there to say yesterday that the presidents should be arrested, etc.Huh? This is a crazy point of view and it does not honor you to reach your word at such levels. You are not honored, because you have passed many bills you of SYRIZA along with the Golden Dawn. I don't think I'm lying. Do you want me to remind you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u514	Mr. Leventis, please, finish it. It can't be done anymore. You're far beyond time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u515	Do you want me to remind you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u516	And your mistakes are known. We forgive you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u517	Therefore, Mr Theonas, I call on this Chamber to ask the Prime Minister not to go, to set up a negotiating group, and this group should go to both Europe and the Americans and say: 'We cannot make this moderation as a country. The people don't want it. And to such an extent we cannot violate his will!' If you don't do it and go ahead, it'll be the whole historical curse on your heads and you'll have the punishment. The punishment will be cruel. What, we'll see. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u518	Thank you, Mr. Leventis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u519	I want to say one thing about Mr. Kammenos. I respect him, he's a party that had a right, made his choice and supported a government. You found him in the New Democracy. But he was yours. Your customs represented. In the past, and Abrahamopoulos has left your ranks, and Ms. Bakoyannis has left your ranks. Others have returned calmly, others are still out. Mr. Burned to think well. After he has said that before people and gods he does not give Macedonia, he cannot say after a year 'the vote will take place'. Tsipras gives it tomorrow! Hello.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u520	I call on Mr Stavros Theodorakis, President of the Potamian Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u521	Thank you, Madam President. 1989. Do You Remember? Insurrection in Kosovo. I was then a journalist in the newspaper "THEI" and left by road, along with other journalists, from Thessaloniki for Pristina. My passport, like the passports of all Greek newspaper envoys, acquired a red seal: "Democracy of Macedonia". This was then called the sixth Land of Yugoslavia. And no politician until Yugoslavia broke up in 1991 did in practice question the use of the name 'Macedonia' by our neighbours. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] In the "Macedonian" the responsibilities of Greek politicians are enormous. Twenty-five years we lose opportunities, waste national capital and waste Greece's voice by giving the wrong battles. Result? Zero. All the countries of the world, together with the USA and Russia and China, have recognised our neighbours as "Macedonia" as "Macedonia". Unless we are satisfied with the resistance of Cyprus that remains on our side. But this is not Eurovision. This is where the stability of the region is at stake. The drums - and I think that we will all agree - are hitting the East. These days the Islamic Justice Party opened offices in Skopje. Erdogan's party opened offices in Skopje, a Erdogan who - if you are watching - does not forget to mention his brothers in Macedonia - says so - in Bosnia, in Kosovo and systematically strengthens the Islamic element in all the Balkans. What it does, that is, in the occupied areas of Cyprus: mosques, tutorials, medicine in remote areas. Halkbank, the bank that is closely linked to Mr Erdogan, finances in Skopje what Ankara decides. You will know that Turkey is the largest donor of weapons systems in the Western Balkans. Zafe admitted it on the last visit to Ankara. Turks modernise the airports in Skopje and Ohrid, while the conclusion from Turkey's action is that by stepping on the recognized Turkish minority in our neighbouring country, a minority of around 100 000 people, Erdogan has plans that should concern us in the neighbouring country. Greece, of course, is also a major trading partner: refineries, fuel networks, banks, store chains. But we - and I won't say any more - are in a fall. They're on a rise. And the national dilemma before us, ladies and gentlemen, is one and clear: will we give Turkey another ground or will we suspend their advance? The only solution, in my assessment, to stop them, is to bring our neighbours closer to us, closer to the European Union and necessarily closer to NATO. So let's go to the government's agreement. You will see on Thursday the headlines of all European newspapers. Everyone wrote "Macedonia is changing name!" And I wonder: is it possible for all the serious people in Europe, the progressives, the liberals, the socialists, and even the People's Party, to enthusiastically welcome the agreement and we only find signs of it? Are we once again living a moment of national blindness from what we have paid extremely expensively in the past? I can say many names and you know them: Gutierres, Monterini, Juncker, Tusk, Merkel, the German Greens, SPD, the PESS, France, all. Everybody? Not everyone. Orban, the extreme nationalist Prime Minister of Hungary, welcomed the syllables of nationalists in Skopje. All this, of course, does not mean that this agreement has no problems. Language would be better and closer to actually being recorded as macedonski. There is, of course, a reference to being a Slavic language. The most important thing, however, is that it is nationality. We should insist on the Citizens of Northern Macedonia. That's pretty cool. That is what I think is the vulnerability of the agreement and possibly a point that can cause problems in the future. Obviously - and here is the answer that the Prime Minister has to give - in a negotiation, you have to make a retreat, a compromise, because only in the war you win or lose always. It is important that a name has finally passed against everyone - erga omnes - because, as shown by all the testimony and evidence that have seen the light of publicity, the basis that our neighbours have accepted to have debated over the years has always been the double name. We were only demanding a change of name for international use. Incidentally, Minister - I am addressing Mr Kotzia - I would say that you should not use confidential documents. You should give the leaders of the parties access to see all the documents at issue in the last twenty-five years. Let them see everything, everybody! Don't take copies. To see them, to know exactly what we have negotiated for the past twenty-five years. Ladies and gentlemen, my opinion - and I have said it before - is that politicians cannot be dragged from the slogan of the square. And consider how many times in the heroic past Eleftherios Venizelos denied the cry of the crowd. And in later years, another Haniotis, Constantine Mitsotakis, soon dared to tell the truths that we didn't want to hear. Politically, I've never been with Mr. Mitsotakis. But then, as a journalist, I supported his attempt to tell the truth and I was across from Mr Antonis Samaras, who forged any solution and finally threw the Mitsotakis government. And I wonder: does not anyone remember all this today in the New Democracy? Is that all I remember? It is, of course, an inappropriate thing to do with politics. And it applies to all of us. But if we set a limit, it'll be for everyone better. And the limit is that the purpose does not justify the means. Potami - and I have told you before - does not believe in the second political presence. We must not constantly push the problems under the carpet. And I am not interested in judging all the issues in thinking about Mr. Tsipras' political plans. We're rivals to Mr. Tsipras. His responsibilities, which identified his counter-population with his populism and his governance with his ideas, are enormous. But help at home does not mean support from SYRIZA - ANEL. Greece must stop wasting forces in the north. We must concentrate our efforts - and I will say it again - on Thrace, the Aegean and Cyprus. "Does it make sense" ask some "the opposition to facilitate the foreign policy of a government with which it disagrees?". It's a mistake. I am also gladly replying 'yes, there is a reason'. Because Greece's foreign policy does not end with SYRIZA - ANEL. On this issue we probably have a double reason, because we all know that if this attempt is failed, the moderate Zaev will be shattered and the nationalists and the hostiles will return. The French say 'people have a second life to repent, the states do not'. Continuous postponements in solving problems convey a message of vanity to society and push people into resignation, since nothing changes. The cost of conflict with lies and delusional society has always been unbearable in politics. We have also seen it clearly during the years of the crisis. SYRIZA - ANEL - and they have a great responsibility for this - accepted all the theories of the sprayed ones, as some of the New Democracy today accept the theories of the nationalists. I think what the Left, this Left, from the memorials, expected to win right from the nationals. The speakers at the rally, I do not know if you are careful, present a country that is frightened, defeated, that will eventually become a global conspiracy and the barbarians will come and understand us. It's funny to think, though, that they'll take us to the White Tower or Thessaloniki. We are a great force, and we can, if we want to, and if we plan it well, dominate the Balkans. Thessaloniki is the capital of the Balkans and not a province of Greece, a fearful province. Kastoria, Florina, Pella, Kilkis, Serres, Drama want jobs and development in new territories and not dark business in new exclusion zones. decades ago the Bulgarians on the Greek political scene mirrored the absolute evil. Old Karamanlis dared and proceeded with a consultation with Ziefkov. The right-wing Seraeus, who spoke often in previous years about communist danger, dared and said: "So far here. No aggressive action from us to them or from them to us. We will resolve everything today." And he did. So it does not connect us, and it should not connect us, politically or aesthetically, to those who are talking today about traitors and hangers. Such mobilisations, such as rallyings, may lead to teratogenicities, see also SYRIZA - ANEL after the "indignant". We all condemn the misery, Barbarousi, which was said yesterday in the House. And then what? Do we have anything else to talk about? I say we say that. The mollusc must dry it and not just hunt its poisonous plants with scissors. Those who tolerate their coexistence with the fascists who shout at the rally "the time of the Army" must be apologied. I remind you that the rally of Thessaloniki, which some refer to as grand, closed with a retired officer shouting "hov the Greek Army, live the Special Forces. Politicians will find us in front of them, no matter what it means." And no Member or Member of the European Parliament reacted - and they were several below - to make no statement of reaction to this irresponsible. So let us stop astonishing every time the fascism's capitals are causing the House. And let's dry up the killer-killing gutter of arsonists - the burning of the three children in Stadium - who bears hooliganism, who bears fascism. The cheapest, the most extreme, the most infested theories are still easily planted in the minds of people who live and a major economic crisis. A few years ago there were parents who put their children on the shoulder and taught them to murmur the House. Then the memorials were then, and the slogan was "the traitors of german germans". Today it is time for the nationalists to call out "the traitors". I said nationalists and my mind is necessarily going - I saw him in front of me - Mr. Kammenos. The attitude of Mr. Kammenos is challenging and dangerous and uses his ministry, his variation costumes, to transmit wrong standards to the Armed Forces. Mr. Kammenos tells us he can't get back to his beginnings. What principles? The stones and the bearings, of course, laugh. We're talking about a man who's put as many red lines as his lies. That's the truth, Mr. Cammene. But it's Mr. Tsipras's responsibility. He got caught in a ditch. He used Mr. Kammenos as the heavy artillery of the far right, and now this heavy artillery threatens to tear down the bridges he builds with reality. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that I have been targeted as few of the SYRIZA-ANEL camp. I am obsessed with my views, but that does not mean that I see politics with the eyes of the person affected. The political change that the country needs includes for me and bold relocation to national issues, in Cyprus, in the "Macedonian" in our relations with Albania. Let's talk clearly. That is why I propose - and I will insist - the proposal for a National Security Council, because it is a pity for our people to betray it again, with politicians subordinate to populism and the applause of the applause. I may have made mistakes - obviously I did and will continue to do - one thing, but I have never done and I will never do: to change my views to the great critics of home and people, because the wind blows up. In the "Macedonian" most politicians are looking to find constantly pretenses to deny a solution. The same happened in the Cyprus issue - to say something else daring. Some considered treason and the Annan plan in 2004 and now forget to tell the Greek and Cypriot people that if the Annan plan had been accepted, Turkish troops would have left Cyprus today. I read: "Mr. Tsipras has no political legitimacy to commit the country", Kyriakos Mitsotakis 2018. I read: "The government is not legitimate to make decisions that are binding on the country", Alexis Tsipras 2014. Carbon words and I'm very afraid and carbon behaviors. And I'm pretty sure - and I'm going to tell you - that if Mr. Mitsotakis was bringing this deal, today others would be in the bars. SYRIZA's opposition would be in the bars.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u522	He wouldn't bring in.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u523	Listen to me. I'll tell you. For many centralised liberal citizens - and you will listen to them, I imagine, and you - the attitude of the New Democracy on the subject, this New Democracy, I mean, with the leadership of Mr Mitsotakis, is unexplainable. They had believed that Mr Mitsotakis had all the preconditions and especially family traditions to defend a solution, a specific solution and call it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u524	Not any.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u525	Let me continue. Allow me. One excuse I have heard is - you will all have heard it - that Mr Mitsotakis has an obligation to shield the New Democracy from its right hand and when he becomes a Prime Minister, all liberals will come back. However, the Greek and European experience denies this hope. Concessions to the extremities never stop the emitting of the extremities. They strengthen it, because, in addition to others, they discipline citizens in the dreams of extremist dreams, which are our own nightmares. Ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing to fear. When some were feeding the split by shouting "or ending them or ending us" I was courageous across the street. And today I will be against those who are "knocking" in 2014. To conclude, on the occasion of various comments I read, that it is very unreasonable or surrealistic or I do not know what else, because we see it positively, because we see the agreement with FYROM and, at the same time, voting in favour of the motion of censure, I would like to point out with every possible emphasis that the very opposite is true. It would be inappropriate and deed to vote against the motion of censure. According to the Constitution, the only question the Members are asked to answer by their vote is whether they give confidence to the government 'to define and direct the general policy of the country'. It's Article 82(1) of the Constitution. If they do, if they give a vote of confidence, they shall be considered as members of parliament from now on. But we oppose and oppose SYRIZA - ANEL policy, public administration, education, the economy, institutions, justice and security. In the months to come, we will be dynamically present in the battle to have the political change that the country needs. But in this fight, we won't be comfortable for anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u526	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Fofi Gennimata, President of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u527	Ladies and gentlemen, on 23 May, in this House, I asked for direct elections to be held, because the SYRIZA - ANEL Government leads the country to a dangerous road, to a dead end. The Greek people have the right to decide on their future. It cannot be found in the face of a fait accompli, through the commitments that you make in the absence of it. He has the right to decide only the conditions and guarantees with which the country will emerge from the crisis. He has the right to decide who at last trusts to be at the wheel on this course. And it has the right to claim an integrated national plan that has a wider consensus, so that the country does not find itself in the face of new deadlocks and dangers again. So it goes without saying that we do not trust this government. We do not trust it, neither in the economy nor in the institutions, in social policy, in security, in negotiation or in national matters. Nowhere on any subject! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] The connections in the House have nothing to do with what is happening today in Greek society. You're a sad minority. Your government proves incompetent and dangerous. You didn't just break up today. Narcotics tomorrow. The famous 'clean exit' is nothing more than a fourth memorandum without money, with the signature of Mr Tsipras. Sad are your performances and development: black hole. The new generation is gone. Our best minds are gone. Pensioners are in despair. Farmers, scientists, professionals on their knees. The unemployed are left to their luck. The social state has been replaced by ministerial charity. We have a total reinstatement of the client state. You are struggling better, you are extinct the evaluation, and you have a special allergy to merit and now too lately to self-government. There is violence and lawlessness from all kinds of crimes that threaten the life and property of Greek citizens with your own tolerance. Statutory logics prevail everywhere. You're trying to control justice. You're poisoning public life. You divide the Greek people and deprive him of his greatest weapon to face the crisis. And that's no more than his unity. It goes without saying that we do not trust the government, especially in national matters, for which it is particularly dangerous, with bilingualism, in bilingualism, with urgency and ineffectiveness, when Greece and Hellenism face adequate and escalating threats from Turkey. Turkey is now openly invoking dominance on rocky islands. Greek officers are still incarcerated in Adrianoupolis, without any charge. At a time when conflicts of geopolitical interests are taking place around us, but important opportunities are being created for the country, we are moving without compass and without a plan. Do we have a government on a raid, which is what he's doing? It is subject to pressure and is attempting to close national issues accordingly. I would like here to open a parentheses, because I would like to refer to the communication from the European Socialists. Listen, we respect our partners in Europe. But you don't need any suggestions. And they should be aware of the traumatic experiences that exist in our country and in the wider region. They have many reasons to rejoice that there is an agreement. For the content of this agreement, however, we, the Greek people alone, will be talking about because it concerns us and our own national interests. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We will continue to work towards a sustainable solution for the benefit of our citizens, our European perspective and, above all, stability in the region. Ladies and gentlemen, the juncture was particularly favourable to national interests. But the government did not take advantage of it. Her manipulations in the Skopje case were wrong. They did not seek, in essence, any dialogue with the other parties. They could have done it. They could have formed a national line. What would that give them? Great negotiating power to bring a better deal. We have called for the convening of the Political Heads of State or Government too many times. They refused. They went on their own, in secret, in the negotiation. They now go on to sign without ensuring that, not more consensus, but not even the assent of their co-government. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] It is clear that Mr Tsipras has all responsibility for the outcome of his choices for this agreement, but also for the division that he has currently caused in Greek society. We, stable in our position for a sustainable and mutually acceptable solution with objectivity, talked about the positive aspects of the agreement, but at the same time revealed the negative points, gray zones and the traps it contains. Ladies and gentlemen, our speech, our positions are not in the same wavelength as the extreme 'yes' and the triumphs of the government. I would remind you that a large part of SYRIZA's staff since 1990, before SYRIZA, has stigmatized every mobilisation of Hellenism as a nationalist act and, of course, every national claim to cancel the alphanumerism as a nationalist claim. These executives, which today are ministers, MPs, public officials, have clearly suggested that we give everything to FYROM, that is to say, that we should give language and ethnicity a hard time. They are stable in their attitude and have ignored even the clear positions and firm attitudes of leader on the left. Andreas Papandreou, PASOK and the democratic party with their positions and initiatives did not allow anyone to point to the patriotic sense of the progressive Greek citizens. It has nothing to do with the marker of the far right and the patriot. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] One more thing. We must respect the voice of citizens, understand their agony and, of course, isolate the extremist voices. They have nothing to do with the democratic citizens who file their messages, the nationalist extreme right and the racist and fascist Golden Dawn. As I have said before, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have a political embassy. You don't see around you. You can't see next to you. I would like, at this point, to strongly condemn the challenge against the regime by the Member of the Golden Dawn. We don't accept that it might be wrong. There are no excuses and we are not concerned about any deletion of the eyes of the world. The message is one and strong: No tolerance to fascists! Finally, justice must go ahead and judge their crimes, give justice to this place. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, our cool voice has nothing to do with the extremism and destruction of the New Democracy. In time and when the omens were better, you, the gentlemen of the New Democracy, through the wrong positions, the constant retreats, your transformations, transformed your inner-party spasms into a prolonged crisis over FYROM. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Our reason is not the same wavelength as the extreme 'no' and the unreasonable refusals from the leadership of the New Democracy and, of course, it has nothing to do with the extreme right delinquency of various officials of the Anti-Population Officer. In the New Democracy, in this critical national issue, they are all together, united, although they refer to diverse opposing views. They are all together and irresponsible, of course, because they never assume their historic and time-consuming responsibilities on this matter. But if anyone puts in the series statements, suggestions, initiatives and acts of New Democracy officials, depending on the time, then he understands the alalum on this side, a 'bambousca' component. In the hunt of power and party interest Mr Mitsotakis and his retreats did not contribute to the formation of a national line. He thus gave Mr Tsipras the alibi to go on his own in the course of this negotiation. Ladies and gentlemen, our party, the democratic, progressive party, has made a decisive contribution to good neighbourly relations with FYROM. We are the ones who concluded the Interim Agreement in 1995, an agreement which has put an end to acidification, has allowed dialogue, has opened the way for economic and trade cooperation. And, of course, it mainly opened the way to finding an integrated solution. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] The interim agreement prevented the dangerous deadlocks which, under the responsibility of the Government of the New Republic, had been created between 1990 and 1993. And, of course, no one forgets that it was our party in 2003, which opened the way to the European perspective of the Balkans. Today, in the Change Movement, as I have repeated many times, we believe in the solution, but not in any solution. The agreement presented by the Government is not a complete solution. It has positive points - yes - which respond to the framework we have set ourselves, in order to resolve the issue. However, its implementation is not dependent on Greece, but exclusively on the actions of the neighbouring country. So there is a great deal of uncertainty. There are terms and conditions, which are unknown if and when they will be resolved, and the commitments we make are immediate. In addition to uncertainties, there are negative points and problems that can remove the prospect of a sustainable and nationally beneficial solution. Greece’s geopolitical interests are linked to the harmonious coexistence with the entity of FYROM, but provided that all aerial references are cancelled on their part. That is why we believe that this agreement must be changed. It needs to be improved before it's too late. You must not hurry, Prime Minister, to proceed to the signatures. After all, haste has led you to agree to discuss in this so favourable context the "Republic of Iliden" and we were the ones who put an end to these plans. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] It is not a criterion for a Greek Prime Minister, the sum of praise from abroad, but the safeguarding of national interests. That is why you will be judged, Prime Minister. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Effort, Mr Tsipras, our attitude and, at last, claim to end the saturation of our neighbours. This requires the national duty, even at the last hour. In essence, there is not much to talk about, because things are completely specific. There are three main points which are particularly problematic and need to be changed. The revision of the constitution of Skopje should include the adaptation of nationality and language in accordance with the new name. I would like to point out here that FYROM's current constitution does not provide for Macedonian nationality. So the neighbours cannot be officially recognized by us with the Macedonian seal and the language recognised as 'Macedonian'. It is clear that, regardless of the footnotes, interpretations and asterisks, the spirit and dynamism of "macedonism" is maintained, which is the basic vehicle of insulating against our country. Moreover, there is a real problem with the timing of the procedures. The invitation letter to join NATO should be sent after completion of the process by Skopje, so that they do not create a fait accompli at the expense of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, once again it turns out that when Mr Tsipras is negotiating, all Greeks must be concerned. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] In the previous interview Mr. Tsipras gave a happy and happy statement, saying that he will be judged by the story of this agreement. Of course, it will be judged by history in the future, but before that it will now be judged by the Greek people. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] He fears and avoids the expression of the people's will and the elections, because he knows that there, in the elections, "no" cannot do so, "no" of the Greek people does not change again after these elections. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] So the time for the crisis is coming. The countdown has begun. The time comes for the people and the condemnation and yours and your co-pilot, who keeps you in power like a helmet, will be irreversible and heavy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u528	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Panagiotis Kammenos, President of the Group of Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u529	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during this two-day period I have listened very carefully to the speeches of all Members from all sides. And I think the Greek people, when they heard the Members' positions, would understand exactly what we are talking about. However, I will first address those who are outside this Chamber, outside the House building, those who are protesting today for the name of Macedonia, those who are concerned, those with whom we are, and we will be together in the syllables for Macedonia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u530	Please, no calls!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u531	And they're not all far-right. These are not all set up by local organizations in the New Democracy, which today came out to protest, while until yesterday they were hiding. These are not all the neo-nazi elements that they dared talk in this House about a coup and the activation of the country's Armed Forces, insulting the city and the army. A number of people, just patriots, who do not belong to parties, are concerned with them. They're worried about church people, they're worried about old people on Mount Athos. And they are concerned that what they consider to be a title for today, namely that today the Greek Parliament grants the term "Macedonia" is something which poses a risk of national retreat. I would therefore like to make it clear that today we are not voting on the agreement that Mr Kotzias will be going to sign, initialise, the agreement, which will only enter into force and, once a whole process has passed on to FYROM, elections will be held, referendum will be held, the two-thirds majority in Parliament will be obtained, constitutional changes will be made and then ratification will come. So this agreement and this initialling which will be signed tomorrow does not have any force, as is clearly described in Article 20, which says that the validity of the agreement is all the procedures described, as I said before. And, of course, when this agreement comes to Parliament, if it comes and if they agree on the other side, which we doubt, because this agreement in Skopje already has found the reaction of the President of the Republic himself, but also of the whole opposition, if the House comes. So here I want to make it clear that the position of the Independent Greeks, as we have publicly committed, will be negative not only by voting, but in any way we can, so that this agreement does not have to be ratified by the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] Because you're laughing, I'll tell you that you have no power and you lie to the Greek people. The Greek people, however, in the Independent Greeks gave the power to do so while they remain in the government. Many want the Independent Greeks from today to have left the government. The question I am going to ask is: if the Independent Greeks today voted on the motion of censure, what would happen? Two pounds. The first, exploratory cycles by the President of the Republic, where we would see Mr Theodorakis continuing to be a member of the Government, and of course a group of other Independent MPs who would not have any resistance to the tradition of the term 'Macedonia', as they say in public. The second would be if a new government were not to succeed, we would have elections. If in these elections, the Greek people chose New Democracy and gave Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the absolute majority, I would ask: Would he sign this agreement with the tradition of the term 'Macedonia', yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u532	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u533	‘No’. Mrs Bakoyannis herself gave her answer. The answer is given by your own speakers: A great 'yes', which you have said many years ago, long before SYRIZA said so before PASOK, long before anyone else said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u534	Please don't shout, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u535	You will hear them, ladies and gentlemen. You'll hear it all. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the Independent Greeks are in this government and we may not be as close as there are other Central Left parties on the SYRIZA Left, but the other Left Party or Central Left parties have problems of another kind. We heard Mr. Theodorakis. Mr Theodorakis is the one who just publicly confessed that he would vote for the Annan plan. The difference between the river - the four Members who have left - and the Independent Greeks is that the Independent Greeks are a civil movement, which remains solid in the House in a parliamentary group, while the Potami is a product of a median and entrepreneurial tube, which is completely triangular. In his speech Mr. Theodorakis to the Greek Parliament told us a moment ago that his passport has a seal of '89 that says "Democracy of Macedonia". Search your passport. Yugoslavia was still there. You're wrong. Look into it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u536	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u537	What about Mr. Black? And does it write you "Democracy of Macedonia" in '89? Well done, Mr. Black. Then we had you at the pole, I remember, but that seal didn't exist. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure concerns two issues. The first is the country's economic situation. The second is the text of the agreement on the solution of the scepticism. Mr. Mitsotakis sees the suffering of the Greek people ending in a few days, a torment in which he presented both the PASOK and his partner at the time, Mr. Samaras, with their unwise and criminal economic policy. So Mr. Mitsotakis, in full panic, bores political balls wherever he finds out, because he can't think that better days come for the Greek people and that he won't eat anything. After August 21st, when Greece comes out of the memoranda, which was our main reason for cooperating with SYRIZA, there is no hope for them all. He loses his political future and the political prestiges of the past who destroyed his late father, are here again and are lurking to destroy him. The oldest MPs - few of us have stayed here since '93 - will remember shaking the stage of peace and friendship with the 'daughter, traitor, Samara'. We will remember Antonis Samaras' statements about Constantine Mitsotakis who at the time called him "Efaltis". And we will remember very well his reports of how he threw the government of New Democracy, just before its work progressed, taken over by interests named by Constantine Mitsotakis. To save politically, it is indifferent, although it will destabilize the country and its course and its development. The New Democracy and its own policy have led to its President being actually overturned. He visited the President of the Republic, Mr. Pavlopoulou, and before he even made a statement, the one who betrayed New Democracy in '93 and kept its sunshine today, Mr. Samaras making a public statement attacking the President of the Republic. He substituted for New Democracy, the "Nexalite", the one who brought the extremist elements of LAOS, which Costas Karamanlis called as extremities and announced he would never cooperate with them. Now, however, I come to the Skopje agreement, because we shouldn't be forgetting ourselves. Mr Mitsotakis, with the motion of censure, is not aimed at the government. In the Independent Greeks it aims and seeks to devalue policy in national issues and our credibility as a citizens' movement. I would be absolutely right to do so if the Movement of Independent Greeks adopted the complex name and did not insist on its battle line, which insists that the term "Macedonia" should not be included in the name of Skopje. It is New Democracy that accepts the complex name and grants Macedonia to the Skopje. That's why he doesn't dare make a word about what he's proposing. It has not been heard today what they would do if they were government, if the motion of censure were to be passed. Hypocrisy and political amoralism have no limits, Mr Mitsotakis. It speaks of national retreat and treason, a party that sold the national theme from its creation, both this and PASOK in 1995. Who started talking about double names, composite names, international names? Who spoke of North, Youth, Upper Macedonians, and there's no end to the sale? The PASOK. Who first recognised Skopje as Macedonia on 2 December 1991, and indeed in a regulation of the European Community on the import of products from the Republics of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Slovenia? Mr Samaras, the one who overthrowed the then Prime Minister Constantino Mitsotakis, the father of the current Head of the New Democracy. Who said on 18 February 2008 as Foreign Minister: 'I am, however, willing to accept what my father hid in '93', clearly implying the name 'New Macedonia'? Mrs. Bakoyannis! Who said on 26 August 2008 that ‘North Macedonia is a geographical designation’? Mrs. Bakoyannis. What Greek Foreign Minister at a meeting in Paris with the Skopje Foreign Minister on December 6, 2009 did not insist on the erga omnes and the change of the constitution and proposed the term "Makedonski" to the Cyril as an indication of the language and ethnicity? Mrs. Dora Bakoyannis. What Deputy Foreign Minister in May 2010 said that "North Macedonia" fits in the solution we want? Mr Dimitris Drucas with Prime Minister George Papandreou. The list is very large, and soon the Minister on Foreign Affairs will submit such documents, which will understand who had closed the matter beforehand. And it's not the current government. It's not even SYRIZA. We have remained firm in our policy since the movement was founded and we will remain until the latter leaves and close the door of the movement, a movement that survived five elections, unlike everyone else. Do you know that, Mr Mitsotakis, your father had been a step before the agreement in June 1993, with the then President of Skopje Gligorov for the name "Slavic Republic of Macedonia", "Macedonia" as a geographical designation and "Slavic" as an ethnic designation? And it didn't work because Gligorov didn't have the parliamentary majority for five seats to change the Skopje constitution. For five seats! There is also a text which has been handled by a diplomat who is alive. Mr. Mitsotakis, I will disappoint you once more. The ANEL movement remains unbelievable in its place. It does not accept the term ‘Macedonia’ in the name of the State of Skopje. He does not accept the text of the Agreement. He won't vote when he comes to the House. He'll do anything to keep him from passing. The Members of the Independent Greeks will not put their name under this text.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u538	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u539	You're shouting. You are the same ones calling the "daughter, traitor, Samara" and then kissing pissed aprons to put you on the Ministerial Council. You're the same ones who blame the extremes of LAOS, that you don't cooperate, and you made him Vice President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u540	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u541	Because you have great pain to know when we will leave the government, I inform you that this will not happen until we get the Greek people out of the burdens you and your teammates have sent him out of PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u542	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u543	Mr. Davakis, the left was the first to collaborate with Constantine Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u544	I understand your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u545	Do you remember that? We went out with MPs then. Do You Remember? It was 1993. Did you forget that, too? I don't understand. What do you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u546	Please don't hold a dialogue, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u547	Along with Mr. Kirkos, Mr. Floraki, we were all together.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u548	You were in the wrong party then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u549	May I remind you of your speech in Laconia? We were together.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u550	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u551	That's all I'm told not to. We've lived together twenty-five years. I know you and you know me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u552	You have to blush.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u553	Mr. Davakis, have you thought if everyone did like you, what would happen in here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u554	No, it wouldn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u555	You haven't thought about it. Please think about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u556	So the problem is not in the name of Macedonia, because this is reflected in Mrs Bakoyannis' speech yesterday, which on page 1 of the Minutes says: 'All those who approached it calmly and soberly agree that not only could we, but that a solution had to be found from the beginning of the 1990s. But then, unfortunately, it covered us with the wave of populism, of patriocapelia. It's over. It's over. It's over. It's over. It's over. It's over. Samaras won, in other words, who overthrowded her and today has him inside her party. And a little later on in her speech again, she says: 'We agreed to all parties' assent, except for the extreme LAOS. The extreme LAOS is in the Vice-President of your party, Mrs Bakoyannis, right now and with him, what you even deny. So there are two schools in the New Democracy today. There is the school of Mitsotakis with the "erga omnes" and the double name that includes the term "Macedonia" and there is the LAOS with Samaras, which I warn you to leave you very soon. [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] Very soon! You'll see. Sunday's short celebration. Sunday's short!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u557	Please be very quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u558	Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you something. I'll take orders from the buddies, drop the junta, I don't get it. The order you took to drop the junta, you took it from the buds, one who's considered if he's dealing with drugs and he's your best man and sponsor, but Tsipras doesn't have orders to take from anyone. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] And that's why we're together. To protect the fodder, you do it! Not to drop the junta. To protect the fodder, protect the scandal of 'NOVARTIS'. You're doing this to protect your own people from justice. Can I tell you something else? We may disagree with the Prime Minister as the Head of SYRIZA politically, but Tsipras never took the airplane with Christofokos to go to Skopje to do business for his family. Tsipras never had the best oil dealer, who was accused of smuggling with Gligorov at the time of the embargo. So, let's get together!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u559	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u560	Well, one and one does two. We remain faithful to our positions. And the Greek people have nothing to fear. We are the insurance company, the Independent Greeks. But until then, until that time comes that we may separate our streets, you know that Greece will also come out of the memorials and corruption, on which you and others have relied, will be struck through Greek justice and no one will be protected. We will move on together and Greece will be able to live for better moments, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u561	Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me for a moment. I shall refer to a mini-procedural issue, but it is important, because there is a different view that has been tabled by the Qualified Opposition, and I would like to explain why the latest speakers will take place in the order that I propose. Article 142 provides for a motion of censure, the procedure of which goes in proportion to Article 141, which is the article on the vote of confidence. There have been three previous discussions here with an article on the motion of censure: they were two to the government of Karamanlis and one to the government of Samaras. On the first two, in March 2008 and in February 2007, the Prime Minister, spoke beforehand the Minister responsible and immediately the one who made the motion of distrust, namely the Chief of Police Vice-President. And in the latter, which was toward the Samara Government, it was the order: the last speaker spoke to the Chief of Staff and the Minister in charge earlier. In other words, there is no clear rule on this. It is clear, therefore, that since the government - I say this directly, because we have discussed this issue and the issue has been raised in time by the Civilian Opposition - it considers that it should be done in this way, namely that President Mitsotakis should now speak, then the Minister of Foreign Affairs and that the Prime Minister should be closed, that is to say we should do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u562	There is no question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u563	Thank you very much. Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u564	Ladies and gentlemen, this man, whom you saw a moment ago in Stepa, is the Minister of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The problem is that not only do the Greeks see him, they see him outside Greece. Only for this monumental speech was the motion of censure tabled by the New Democracy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Such a political hypocrisy and cynicism recital this Chamber has never seen. I shall, however, come back to Mr Kammenos next, although I see that he has left the Chamber very quickly. I wonder why.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u565	There's a need. For all of us. [[Laughers in the Chamber]] Be quiet, please. Mr President, I beg your pardon, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u566	Ladies and gentlemen, this sitting of the House is indeed one of the most critical of recent years. The government today has to account for the suffering it has caused in the country, culminating in the coincidence of a fourth memorandum, more prestigious to all the previous ones, with a severe national retreat for the scaffolding. Because you can make politics with lies and mud, but the political world and, above all, society is not suffering from amnesia. But we are not here today to discuss the past, but because today you are all mortgageing the future of the country, not only in the economy, but also in your choices to national issues. That's why we're here. And it is our duty to do everything we can to stop you so that the elections end your irresponsible course. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is also clear that behind the retreats, the compromises, behind this incredible theatre, which we saw was played just now in this Chamber, behind the mechanics, behind the slanders, is your anguish about the upcoming loss of power and, above all, it unites you, Mr Tsipras, with the honest - so you described him - as your partner, Mr Kammenos. But this meeting is also an opportunity for democratic clearance, a process which not only reveals the suffering caused by the SYRIZANELs over the last three and a half years in the country, but also the hope that, together with the truth, the plan, the work and the result, will come. Because the Greeks are united and we deserve better and we certainly deserve much better than this irresponsible government. Three years now, ladies and gentlemen, we have opposed ourselves with responsibility. These three years have taken place in the country, which could justify tabling a motion of censure: from the break-up of the productive economy to the knife to wages and pensions, from the provocative tolerance to violence to the undermining of institutions and the provocative interference in justice. The submission of the motion of censure has the heaviest symbolism of all the weapons available to the opposition in its institutional arsenal. We have chosen to activate it now, with a clear aim: to put all Members before their responsibilities in an extremely critical historical context. So I will say it simply to understand it: a vote against the motion of censure is a vote in favour of the Tsipras-Zaef agreement tomorrow. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] By voting 'no', ladies and gentlemen - and I am referring specifically to the ANEL Members - you are making each and every one of you a separate individual ticket to the press. You will leave power, but for this country this agreement you bring will be a return-free ticket, because the agreement produces a fait accompli, which will be very difficult to change in the future. It will come for ratification, if it comes, many months later and it will be extremely difficult then to make any changes. So now it is time for everyone to assume their responsibilities, including, of course, the Members of the Independent Greeks and of course their President, Panos Kammenos. I want all Greeks to understand the unprecedented hypocrisy theatre set up. In the words ANELs appear to disagree with the agreement. They say that they will not accept any solution including the term "Macedonia" or its derivatives. They claim they will not ratify the agreement when it comes to Parliament. We are told, that is, 'we do not want to drop the government now, but perhaps some convenient moment in the future. But at the same time we support with passion the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who negotiated it and signed it tomorrow." They do not even give up their ministerial chairs as a minimum indication of political emotiveness. You introduced a new condition in constitutional order, that of the opportunityal declared. I'm reading something about Nobel Peace. Here you deserve Nobel "political fraud" to both of you! Because all you do is consensual. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It's painful, you know, in this room, to be mixed with your past. But allow me to submit Mr Kammenos for a while to this suffering. May 12, 2014: "There are issues for us that are a'red line' that we will never violate for any reason. We are not involved in any government if these red lines are not within the framework of cooperation on governance. Who are these? The first is national issues. We are not talking about Macedonia. We do not participate in a government." 18 January 2015: ‘... the ‘red lines’, which do not exceed one millimetre. Do not think, then, of negotiating for the name of Macedonia." Two days later, you joined the government. I've got too much here. I'm reading some tellin's. 11 January 2018: "Macedonia and the name of Macedonia is one. We will never retreat to the tradition of Macedonia's name." And that's where it starts. "I have complete confidence in Foreign Minister Nikos Kotzias to negotiate a name that will not bring the Greek term "Macedonia", but will bear whatever name they want in Slavics." [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Take them and give them to Mr. Kammenos to remember them. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Do you still trust Mr. Kojia? You surround Mr. Kotzia with your trust. Isn't that right, Mr. Cammene?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u567	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u568	You're swinging your head too. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] More demagogues and liars have been in this room. But the historian of the future will keep a special place for Mr. Kammenos among the opportunities of politics. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, since the Skopje issue came back to the public debate, it was clear that Mr Tsipras was not really interested in solving the problem. He wanted to look like he was the only one seeking a solution, while everyone else prevents him. In other words, it has played a small-party game against national interests from the outset. The man who has made a career in the opposition in overthrowing and threatening our allies has been found trying to extract the praises of foreigners and perhaps exchange a bad deal for Greece in the scorpion with some facilitations towards his Government in economic matters. His main aim was to create a problem for his political opponents, especially in Civicism. In addition, Mr. Voutsis had predicted by a loud voice, perhaps unwittingly, a reorder of the political scene through the sceptic. I am sorry that, Mr President, you have shown your intention, which is not to turn a national issue into a tool for your purposes, namely your political survival. Mr Tsipras, unlike what happened to previous governments, never - I repeat, never - sought any consensus with the political forces of the whole Opposition to form a national line and a national front. He did the exact opposite: Secret diplomacy, with leaks, with implying, instead of detailed information with transparency and accountability, as all previous governments have done. But it didn't stop there. As he attempted to trap the political system, he also despised the citizens who expressed their patriotic concerns. He called them degradingly a mob and slandered them massively as far-right and nationalists. I'm standing on the rally for a while. We in the New Democracy respect and listen to the citizens who have been protesting at great rally throughout the country all these months. But we are here, we are in the Chamber to stop you following parliamentary procedures. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because we are the sideline of responsibility, which has always guaranteed normality. We take power from the citizens, but we do not motivate the rivers of anger and indignation, as you did when you were in the opposition. We listen to society, but we reject intolerance, a intolerance that you cultivated when you were in opposition. And you have the nerve to blame us for the responsibilities of populism and division, which you opened before the 2015 elections. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are here to unite and not to divide the Greeks I return to the sequence of recent political events involving the scepticism. It was clear from the outset that Mr Tsipras was looking for a solution in every way, not even clear tactics, of course without'red lines'. We put them on. The Government was finally forced to adapt and adopt them only after the New Democracy made decisive the issues of the revision, of the Erga omnes and of the perversion. Until then, Mr. Tsipras, you were just looking for a quick solution to the name. Even there, however, it seemed that you had neither historical consciousness nor, of course, negotiating resistance. The 'yes' which you said, Mr Tsipras, in Macedonia, Iliden, that is to say, in the epitome of scepticism, you have taken it. Neither then, however, did you go to a line of national unity, because all you were interested in is'solution', any solution, as soon as possible. Describing to his well-known telemonists, the Minister of Foreign Affairs was optimistic for a quick conclusion, and the Prime Minister showed an unexplained rush to a timetable of expressions, which obviously concerned NATO and Skopje. So we had this paradox: Mr. Tsipras, who until recently wanted to take Greece out of NATO, now runs into it and Skopje. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And while they were our neighbours who were supposed to be cut longer on this matter, it must be the one who is the first to come forward to make the biggest retreats. The only reason he knows about it is because he knows it. But, as I said the day before yesterday, the coincidence in voting for a fourth memorandum with the signing of an agreement expressly in the sceptics can only raise questions. The simplest explanation is that you're trying to clear out impressions. You want the reactions to the scop, which you think are from citizens who may not support you, to meet the commitments of the fourth memorandum, tax-free reductions, pension increases, increases in contributions. But there, you're wrong. Because for the scorpion, you know, all Greeks have an opinion, just like all Greeks know how much longer lasting austerity brings the fourth memorial, which you voted yesterday, without even having ensured anything tangible to alleviate the debt. Another more complex explanation, however, says that Mr. Tsipras implements the agendas of others who found him easy to settle all the loose ends. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Why, Mr Tsipras, I imagine that you and Mr Kotzias will also attempt a dive in the past, but after tomorrow history will write that you will be the Prime Minister who finally said yes to all that all your predecessors had said 'no'. That's what history will write and that won't change unfortunately. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Only you have accepted them and this is an unprecedented retreat from the national line. It is the main reason - there are others - that this agreement should not be signed tomorrow. For all of you who vote 'no' in the motion of censure, you vote 'yes' in the legal safeguarding of our neighbours, not to identify themselves as 'Macedonians', but to be recognized as Macedonians by all and by Greece. That's what you vote on. The real problem, you know, was never Gruevski's nonsense about slendering the ancient heritage of Alexander the Great. That wasn't the real problem. The real problem was Macedonian alutism of the end of the 19th century, which was manifested by the slogan "Macedonia in Macedonia". That was the request, that was the main slogan of the Illinden revolution. And because I believe that your Minister is not invincible - of course, for Mr Tsipras I have some doubts - I find the government's retreat to Skopje's request for a name for Iliden. There is also a reason, Mr Tsipras, that Bulgaria, although of the first countries to recognise Skopje under their constitutional name, "Macedonia's Republic", has never recognised Macedonian language. Because once you accept the existence of a Macedonian nation and language, geographical definition is essentially unreserved. Those who speak "Macedonian", are in fact excluded from being called "North-Macedonians". Just to say, with the agreement, the state of Skopje takes a geographical determination, but its people don't. With the agreement of the inhabitants of "North Macedonia" they will be called "Macedonians" and can be said to speak "Macedonian language". If, however, "North Macedonia" lives "Macedonians", there are obviously some who can claim in future that there is a "South Macedonia" to which also live "Macedonians". Even if they live in two states, their nation will be one, just like the Koreans of North and South Korea and sometimes the Germans of East and West Germany. Do you understand what you're doing, Mr. Tsipras? You know, it's a little rude to keep looking at your phone while I'm talking from the Step of the House. But new parliamentary customs enter, I imagine. Do you tolerate all this, especially the SYRIZA MPs in northern Greece? Not only do you legalize, but you are strengthening the scepticism with your agreement. And that's what I'm saying to you, Mr. Cammene, so you don't pretend you don't understand what's going on in this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, altruism by means of Macedonia and Macedonia by means of language and ethnicity is affecting our national interests. And, unfortunately, this is not only the only serious problem of the Tsipra - Zaev agreement. The 'erga omnes' is essentially not guaranteed, as for the international use of the name is given a five-year period. For internal documents - for identities, for example - no limit is set. It is, in general, linked to the Skopje European path, which if ever happens, is placed in a distant and uncertain future. This whole arbitrary construction of Tsipras - Kotzia is on the air. Every step of her can undermine the next one. In the medium term, however, it will be produced with a mesh size, which will not be able to be undocumented later. The neighbouring country is invited by NATO to join now. Greece will expect to ratify the accession protocol lately. How easy will it be to do otherwise if twenty-eight of the twenty-nine members of the North Atlantic Agreement have already done so? That is why we are telling you that the agreement takes effect with its signature. That is why the Members who support it and who support the government are co-responsible for what is going to happen in the press tomorrow. That's the negotiation you made, Mr. Kotzia. And if your statement is true, how will you solve Albania's problems before you go on vacation, one more reason to start a lasting holiday with the Greek people's decision to send you to the opposition headquarters to stop doing other damage to the country. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But all this is fine letters for a Prime Minister who is still lying. Where's the Severna Makedonija? Mr. Tsipras, look at me if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u569	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u570	Where's the Severna Makedonija, which you announced in your report? The last time I mentioned it, you were not in the Chamber. So I read what you told the Greek people a few days ago: "They agreed to rename their country to the Republic of Severna Makedonija, that is, in our language in the Republic of Northern Macedonia". I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u571	Ladies and gentlemen, be quiet. We're not all talking together.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u572	You read it yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u573	Really, when you were saying this in your letter, were you lying or hadn't you read the deal? You probably don't know where you're getting your signature, Mr. Tsipras. That's the worst. I doubt that you have read the agreement that Mr Kotzias has made to you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Let's go down. Is it a right to self-determination to call every Skopje "Macedonian", as you said on bad state television?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u574	Do you have any idea what's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u575	Awful, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u576	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u577	Sloppy! Propaganda tool is the ERT as you've done it. You're not shy. A vulgar and disgusting propaganda tool! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I was mild in my expressions. And what will happen, Mr Tsipras, Mr Kotzia, ladies and gentlemen, on trademarks, with the companies in northern Greece? Really - watch me - joint committees will our history books now write? Is that what you agreed on, Mr. Tsipras? Because this writes in what you're going to sign tomorrow. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And if all of us who disagree, along with the great majority of the Greek people, on this agreement, are extremist nationalists and ultrapatriots, then what is it, Mr. Kammenos? He had the nerve this morning, Mr. Kammenos, to say that an agreement is good, but the name is bad and that is why he is voting against it. And, of course, Mr Tsipras, I understood - he doesn't want much to understand your body language - your embarrassment when Mr. Kammenos was in Stepma. I was looking at you all three - Mr. Kammenos in Vima, you at the seat of the Prime Minister and Mr. Kotzias next to you - and I said that you have the fate of the country's foreign policy. Unfortunately, at night you called him an 'Honest Man'. "Mr. Kammenos is an honest man. It does not trade in patriotism." Aren't you both a little ashamed of this theater you're setting up here? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You are a consortium of political cynicism that is capable of everything now. Just "Macedonia" you once wanted, Mr. Tsipras, you and your comrades. Don't forget. Listen to this, ladies and gentlemen. Something will remind you: "We will not allow any Samaras - Venizelos and no Tsipras to negotiate Macedonia's name," said Kammenos. That's it. Now that they have become partners in power, everything is done and everything is allowed. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that because all these self-defences are difficult to answer, the government is resorting - and I am sure it will also resort - to the so-called method of diversion, mud on the opponent, a turn in the past with a selective pattern of statements. In other words, back to yesterday to hide the national damage of today. I'm sure some people stayed up late in Maximos and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by cutting off and sewing papers and stories. Provocations, lies, declassifications of classified documents with a view to creating confusion. "Once Karamanlis said, but Averov wrote, "Samaras did", "Andreas wanted", "Simitis", "Dora", "Karamanlis" etc. Only deliberately do you not say anything: that all these were fragmentary positions in the context of discussions. They didn't end up anywhere. And it is incomprehensible to try to offset the concessions you make and which are now explicitly reflected in an official text, in an official agreement, which you will sign tomorrow and which is binding on the country. So by refreshing the past, ladies and gentlemen, you will not escape the truth of what you are doing with the scout at the present time. In the meantime you appear, Mr. Tsipras, to various monologues, as a protector of the memory of Constantine Karamanlis, Andreas Papandreou, Konstantinos Mitsotakis, at the same time as you are a partner with Panos Kammenos, you have only lied and charged the place with two unnecessarily memorable memorials! What else do you have to show? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The fact that you are posing here as a judge of the leaders of postpopulation is politically irresponsible. But we are not here, ladies and gentlemen, to have history seminars. We're here to write our own story, which will be written with our actions and choices. And I and you, Mr. Tsipras, are taking our decisions and we will be judged on them. You are ready to sign an agreement tomorrow, which for me is a major national retreat, and I am trying to prevent it. Believe me, I already have a quiet conscience. I doubt this is the case with you, Mr. Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As I said, I will not allow the Greeks to be divided to unite the Skopje. I will not, however, allow Greeks to split up each other. For me, "or we or they" is devastating. It is the motto of a minority, who had the delusion - another delusion! - that he'll find fake lifesavings in the As for the good words that are heard about the scout outside the border, they should perhaps make you worry. Any solution that would get a thorn out of NATO or Europe's agenda would be enthusiasticly accepted. It is not, you see, the foreigners at risk of their own national interest nor is the sensitivity of their own people at stake. Isn't the same, Mr. Tsipras, too, in the economy? "Have the clean exit," the Europeans say, as the country's cheap loan from Europe expires now and Mr. Tsipras imposes austerity lasting on his people. They are not cut, you see, the pensions of European citizens, nor are they those who will pay for years of taxes and contributions. However, it remains very worrying that the two main issues of the safety and well-being of the Greeks are of great concern. I hope - it will, if necessary, be seen in the future - that it does not hide fraudulent netting or exchanging national concessions with some unadulterated wishes for the economy. We, however, have an obligation to look ahead and pursue an honest relationship with the citizens. We have today the task of rejecting Mr Tsipras' agreement, but also of closing the wounds that were opened up by his turbulent prosecutions. Why? Because secret diplomacy, the targeting of political opponents, the self-esteem of the sensitivity of Greek society, have unfortunately caused a blind indignation again. Passions again besieged the logic and manipulations of the SYRIZA - ANEL, unfortunately, offer ground in marginal elements to land in false nationalism, which, unfortunately, is happening almost everywhere in Europe. Patriot is not the one who bluffs the symbols of our history. Patriot is not the one holding the largest Greek flag. Patriot is not even the one who falsifys history and makes miserable historical comparisons. And it is not a patriot who, instead of exploiting an extremely favourable juncture, instead of stepping on the successes of the previous ones, goes on to use it to create a problem in Anti-Population and to divide Greeks. The elections, whether you like it or not, are a matter of a few months' time and the citizens' crisis in the polls will put things in place. And you, Mr. Tsipras, will take the place that you deserve, that of the worst prime minister in the history of postmulsion! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, it has become clear that the four-year term of SYRIZA - ANEL has turned the country back for many years and is now threatening society with permanent ties, with this last twin of the fourth memorandum and agreement on the scorpion, which is sedating nationally and economically the future of the country. Today's sitting should be the sad epidemic of a government on a run-off, which I hope - and I think most of our fellow citizens wish - that it does not take place under the dark clouds of a national retreat. I warn once again from the Step of the Greek Parliament, how to sign this agreement tomorrow makes it very difficult to overturn its consequences in the future. That is why your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the House, is severe, because your vote, the vote of all of you, concerns Greece and national interests. At the same time, however, I must say that the political landscape was never cleaner. After the lies, after the mud, after the populism, after the decline in recent years, the dilemmas are clear. In front of or behind, progress or regression, democracy or paratrooper, normality or autocracy, credibility or cynicism, responsibility or delinquency, efficiency or inability, truth or lies. These are the dilemmas that our fellow citizens will be asked to answer in the next elections. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The country needs a new direction, a new leadership and a new spirit. That is why the citizens now demand the elections to be held as soon as possible. And if our proposal is passed today, the polls road opens and the country will be freed from this nightmare that lives for three and a half years now. Greece has healthy, progressive, creative powers. Greeks also have capacity and optimism. We deserve better and we can do better. We deserve it and we can do better than this government that has to leave before it does more damage - this time national - in the country. You all have a moral responsibility today. That is why I call on everyone who realizes how heavy this responsibility is to vote in favour of the motion of censure against the government tabled by the New Democracy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Greece will be strong and proud again and the Greeks will raise our heads again! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u578	Thank you very much. I very much ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Nikos Kotzias, to come to Vima.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u579	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Prime Minister of the country for the many and creative discussions we have had on the sceptic, to thank my colleagues at the Ministerial Council and, in particular, for the four meetings we have held on this issue. Above all, however, I would like to thank the service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has firmly supported, contributed and worked on this agreement, which is the first agreement of this kind not with external partners, not with Gryllaceans and NSA agents but with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The first question we have to answer is this: what is being judged today? In 1990-1992, all politicians said that the international treaties were changing and we did not get it. Now they're changing and some people want to act like they don't change. For us, for our Government, the primary patriotic duty is to see and develop Greece's role in our region, get out of the crisis and go to development with the entire region. The solution to the spy problem does not want it any more than we do, no one else wants it more than the peoples of the Balkans, no one else wants it from the Macedonians and the Albanians in the neighbour's friend country any more. Because Albanians and Slavomaedon are very concerned about the growing presence of religious fundamentalism, which seeks to transform Albanian nationalism into Islam and which seems to want some not to take this into account. This agreement is patriotic because it allows us to gather together the forces of the country, where there is the real problem. One day we need to talk, from who is the country really at risk? From countries that have neither Air Force nor those that are ready to buy F-35? Let's stop being a prisoner of history. History is a school from which we must learn and turn to the future. I would like to say this: patriotism - and this is its main feature - is fascinating, loving the Patriarchal Territories, the Patriarchal Culture, the old historical traditions. The opposite is true of national chauvinism. He considers himself superior to all others. He does not respect the culture, history and perceptions of other peoples. He thinks that because of his blood or for some other reason he's superior. I will make a comment on what I heard yesterday. Many people say to us: 'You are bringing fruits', but they are not telling us anything else. In these twenty-seven years - or more correctly in the last seven years - how much has been accomplished on this subject? They also don't tell us. Aren't our neighbours going to come out of this deal? So it's a small thing that this country should change its name? Is it a small thing to change her regiment and then we say if we're going to ratify? They will do the two maximum acts for their identity, and then we will ratify. 'If we ratify after' - says the Opposition - 'you have created a fait accompli'. I'll be clear. Yeah, we're compromised. Does anyone have the impression that an international agreement is being made without compromise? Do you know when an international agreement is made without compromise? If you've won a war. New Democracy should tell us at last. Did you win war gentlemen, and you don't want anything, no compromise, the other side not get anything and just vote? Why would he vote? Because that is the way Mr Ivanov wants to do with Mr Mitsotakis. I'm asking. Have you ever made serious negotiations, or is what your Vice-President said, "we've made plaques to strangers"? Serious negotiation, you can't make a point. Why can't you make her point to point? Because you have another opinion on everything. The only serious negotiation you are going to make is the negotiation - 'pack', where you will give what the other one is burning for more than you and will give you what you are more burned for. When you make this negotiation with Skopje, remember always that it's based on what we found in front of us. Don't blame us for your own accomplished. We found earlier texts in front of us. The "Macedonian" was divided into four areas by the Treaty of Bucharest in 1913. As I hear you, you are following the line of international review. You consider that the international treaties do not apply, that we should not take them into account and we will go and tell Mr Borisov, who is from Pirin's Macedonia: 'You are not allowed to be called Macedonia'. We in the 1913 Treaty do not recognize it.' And then Mr Erdogan won't recognize the Treaty of Lausanne and go by saying. Do you know where this state and its foreign policy are based? International law. Anyone who thinks this international treaty is not right to say it straight: 'We want to overthrow international law, we want to do things so that we can get everything from others', because all the others are propaganda without beginning and end. Can I tell you what I think from the beginning? All of you want the SYRIZA - ANEL Government to resolve the matter. All of you. Just the difference with us do you know what it is? You hide it and you want to "shoot it up" us. That is the issue and I will prove to you why you want to do that. Let's go down. Is there one side in the deal? There are two sides. I've been hearing this amazing for days. I follow Skopje very well. I am listening to Mr Ivanov, VMRO and the annex to VMRO in Athens which is the New Democracy. In this policy, it is an annex. So he says: "These you have to give them everything. We give them everything, our national identities, our national rights, our national concerns." We handed it over. Let's go to Skopje. What does Ivanov and the others say? "You want to deliver everything to the Greeks." How can this phenomenon be explained, and we deliver it all and they give it to us? Alexis Tsipras, do we have to reveal that we have two conditions, one of them here to deliver to them and one of them to deliver us? This policy is no longer the case. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The country is divided into two camps in the scorpion. They are the ones who want a solution and those who have made the political start not to solve it. They are the ones who created all the problems, and we are the ones who solve them. That's our difference. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You're fans of inertia. We don't do anything and we don't care. You have a few more experts. They're followers of the loose end. Just keep it all up, don't do anything. I am told four - five Foreign Ministers from their experience in the hostel: "Niko, don't do much. There is no question of a foreign minister being criticised and excruciated if he leaves it all behind. If it solves problems, it has to deal with too many issues.” It is, then, an alliance of refusal. It is the same party that considered Greece to be 'priority' and which is afraid to make an international agreement, because we are in danger of losing everything. No, the international agreement is progress, it is much better than the situation we have found. The New Democracy, in the time that negotiations on the skopje were taking place, ruled ten years with seven ministers and even today, when I listened carefully, they did not tell us their position. What's your position? Well, we did, we're bad people, we're turbulent, old people, and so on. What exactly? Are you ashamed of what you did and not say? Why didn't you give us the list of names you supported? Did some of you not know? Do they speak of secret diplomacy and ignore their party's diplomacy or simply the "littles" as anyone said? I'll tell you what. There are times of good diplomacy, as Karamanlis did in Bucharest. However, there are also moments of bad diplomacy, such as the seven years when Greece negotiated the name "Macedonia – Skopje" as an international name and internal name of that country the beautiful "Macedonia". It is the continuation of the negotiations in eighteen of the twenty years, where there was no 'erga omnes'. You are shouting that 'erga omnes' takes five years for passports. Who? Those who accepted the definition of 'erga omnes' only for international use when they accepted this. You have never made the negotiation of 'erga omnes' also for internal use. And tell you the worst? When in these six-seven years they accepted the inner name 'Macedonia', what a derivative did those who ask for derivatives and aggressive determinations look like to the name of the state accept? After you agreed to be called the "Macedonia Republic" this state, what would its inhabitants call itself? What would their passports be called? Who are you talking to? Who are you telling? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] To say this here and I will submit it to the Bureau - I will give it all together - I have been authorized by the High Representative, to make use of documents that have been declassified. It's the legal way. Let's go:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u580	With what purpose? What is the highest interest?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u581	You'll hear them. You'll hear them, be patient!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u582	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u583	What the committee considers is the case for your interrogator.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u584	Calm down, Mrs. Bakoyannis. Mrs. Bakoyannis, you're irritating. I'm not gonna make it all right now. I'll see you in the end. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] What were the names Nimitz gave? Nimic’s names were first, ‘Vardarski Macedonia’. I believe this name is practically not accepted by the older governments, because Vardarski can also mean the worthy person in Greece. The Skopje do not want it because it is linked to the fascist payouts of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. The other name was "Upper Macedonia", which the Skopje do not want, because the last state with "Upper" and "Upper Volta has been abolished and we didn't want it, because archaeologists tell us that "Upper Macedonia" is a part of Greek Macedonia today. We did not want Macedonia - Skopje, we because it would be 'Macedonia', as they did not want Skopje - Macedonia, because it would only remain 'Skopje'. We have therefore gone to the name 'North Macedonia'. And we heard the representatives of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group the day before yesterday say that it is the name that has the greatest pervertism and it is the most disgraceful name that could be given. Yes, sir! But this proposal for "North Macedonia" is the best time for the New Democracy in the negotiation when it was not "Macedonia". It is what Constantine Mitsotakis said that the name "North Macedonia" could be the result we seek. It is what Mr Nimic was saying when he campaigned for the New Democracy government if he accepts the "North" or "Upper Macedonia", the Greek Government responded "North is more right and does not cause confusion with past historical data". It is what Mr Nimic said that he accepts the proposal from the then governments on 'North Macedonia' because he fulfils the geographical criterion. And it is what on 8 July 2009 -- all of this is 2009 -- which the Minister replied then, after questioned by Mr Nimic, "I want to ask you, I deserve to continue my efforts for the name of North Macedonia?", the Minister, on a telegram from Paris on 8 July 2009, replied: "Of course it is worth it." How is it possible for the name you have claimed but did not manage to get it, how is it possible for the name that you have earned, how is it possible that the name you have chosen, when this government wins it, to create the problems that you have gained? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And who do you object to 'North Macedonia'? [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Don't be afraid of the truth. It's an equilibrium, the truth. Who does the name "North Macedonia" scare you? Along with those in Skopje, it's not just Gruevski, it's not just Ivanov, it's the ones who had a career and spent 15% of the country's GDP to make alperatorial statues. And you say here, I heard yesterday and the day before yesterday, "it makes no sense to the archaic, the archaic. There is a series of meetings of the two states negotiating team with Nimic, which first or second theme in the negotiation was to downgrade the statue of Alexander the Great and change the name of the airport and change the name of the avenue that connects the Greek border with Skopje. As soon as we got it, you don't mind. It didn't make any sense. Why? Why should you have the honesty and courage and say: "Bravo, Tsipras and your government, Bravo SYRIZA and ANEL, that you have managed to download all these all of these all of the alpha-corrosions through Skopje".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u585	Iliden.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u586	Illiden is Mr. Zafe's proposal and you can discuss it with him if you want. The name is already over. The next argument is coming and I have heard it from a friend of mine, a respected professor, Mr Maniatis, who says that we are giving the EEZ under Article 13. Isn't that right? This article 13, however, is an article that is written and in coincidence, the same article in the interim agreement that you and your party considered to be important. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Not a word. It's only a reference that's changed. Instead of saying in Article 18, it says in Article 12. And I wonder: When you take care of us here and tell us that we are this and that, didn't you know what the interim agreement was saying? So much study on our deal, and fourteen years, didn't you get a hamburger? Also under international law - and this is how it has been interpreted since the interim agreement - a special agreement is needed. This wording of the UN at that time and now, is that there will be a special agreement on how this use will be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u587	28 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u588	We've seen that, too. Is there a presumption that you agreed to Macedonia - Skopje? There is. There are telegrams. There are signatures here by Mr Vassilis, who did not represent himself but the government at the time, that we 'like this proposal and can negotiate'. And even the then representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that the Greek side first thought that the proposal, although it did not fully satisfy us, is good to talk about it. And he asked - says - at the end of the negotiations Mr Nimic said: 'Do you remain in the same proposal? And you answer: 'Yes, three years well, we have remained, but now we have elections and we cannot go with such a proposal'. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Let's go down. We, unlike the past, did not give the agreement ethnicity. I've been listening for two days about ethnicity. Open the deal. It doesn't say any ethnic, it says citizenship. And if he doesn't understand this difference, the majority of them are legal, I don't have time to explain it. But let me just tell you something. You give it to the nation, because when the agreement says "identity" and you say we have given "ethnicity", you will again invoke the other side. What, then, is citizenship? Nationality translates citizenship. What, then, is citizenship? Is it not a right to self-determination of the state? Is it not a case that is so terrible, as you are presenting it, why is there a distinction in Article 7 that their language and the other subsequent Slavic? And why do the Macedonians want citizenship? Because they want to include both Albanians and Vlachs and Turkish people under one word. We don't like it. Let's see. The UN resolution of 13-8-2001 which tells them that they are citizens of Macedonia - to remember whether we were on the SYRIZA government in 2001, somewhere near there - is a decision without comment. The passports that we sealed and sealed until today are passports called "Macedonian". We just put a seal down here and laugh at each other. And - says - Greece does not recognize these, but it is allowed to use and come to Greece. Let's go down. I heard about the leaders of Constantine Mitsotakis and Andreas Papandreou. The second I appreciate him more than the first, but both on the Skopje issues had more rational positions than New Democracy. What does Andrew Papandreou say? Let's see what the L.A.P. party says. "Oh, go, go! Nationality! Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! The language!’ "We are not trying to instruct or force Yugoslavia not to use the term "Macedonia", without at the same time referring to a nation." He says Andreas Papandreou: "They are their rights as an independent country to do whatever they want in their country." It was a time when we did not ask for 'erga omnes' within FYROM. "We do not care and do not care, but it is impossible to accept their own intervention, as to whether there is a minority or not." And he writes Mr. Skoutakis, Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in his book on Mitsotakis, that Mitsotakis said on 27-6-1992: "Greece was not interested in the name of Skopje within them. It is their topic." And now you're criticizing us that we gave them timelines? And tell you about the schedules. We sat down and studied the West German-East German Agreement. It was the agreement on Eastern Germany's membership of the West, a state of hostile and socio-economic. How long have they been given to adjust their papers, new and previous? Four years. We're talking about the German state. What did we do? We agreed with FYROM that the new forms will come out directly with the new name, Article 8. And Article 8 says 'the new names directly with the new name, the old ones in a five-year process'. What does it mean by a five-year process? Because you seem to be unconscious. Skopje currently has one million, ten thousand and one million immigrants. How will they impose that the papers of a million immigrants will change the next day? Shouldn't they end their passport, go for renewal at their consulate and at the time of the renewal the new passport bear the new name? Or do you think that Skopje have any police to find a million immigrants and get them a door-to-door and get them to change their passports tomorrow morning? Are you reasonable? Are you the party of entrepreneurship, of efficiency? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And let us come and stay on a final issue with citizenship and all that. He made an official list of negotiations on April 30, 2008, the UN, official paper is not any secret paper, to give it here to people and he says what they have proposed and where the parties have come to. And, as a twelfth point, it has the use of the term "Macedonian" or "Macedonian". What is the comment made by the second part of the parties, namely Skopje? That the other side must not be used exclusively. What is the Greek comment officially recorded in the UN? That the other side should not make exclusive use of the terms 'Macedonia' and 'Macedonia'. That's what you've given. And don't do what you have no idea about that. Here we have an old-fashioned issue. What's the oldest? It's the tongue. What's the tongue? There was "Macedonian language" either in antiquity or in the FYROMites etc.Huh? Oh, no. Yugoslavia followed the Soviet Union's practice. In every small or large ethnic group they made a written alphabetical and written way of recording their speech. So in 1948 FYROM, the then Socialist Republic of Macedonia, became the "Macedonian". In 1948 the Left was in the illegality. You who ruled, what did you do? What did you say? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] This language was recognised in 1954. And after the 1954 recognition, Averoff did... After the 1954 I.D., Averoff did...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u589	You did the fifth plenary...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u590	Let me know better the story of the JRC than you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u591	But are we talking about a fifth plenary right now? Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u592	In 1959 Mr Averoff, the person responsible for this matter published, acknowledged the existence of a 'Macedonian language'. Have you condemned him? Is it in the history of the Greek right-wing convicted, or is he an ideal with his "fire and axes"? In 1977 the UN came to Athens. And there in Athens in 1977 the Cyril language was accepted in the internal decision of Macedonia and, at the same time, - what has not been said publicly - a call was adopted by Yugoslavia on these languages. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] After that in 1977 this language was posted in the official languages of the UN. Go see the painting. Do it hard to see the painting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u593	Be quiet, please. Minister, can you close up in three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u594	Mr President of Parliament, I am entitled to eighteen minutes, plus nine seconds, plus three thirds. I haven't even reached it yet. I haven't been in the first place. I haven't misled. Give me some time, please. In 1992 and 1994, in the international organization of ISO, which patents the marks from languages to signs, the Greek side was absent. He only had Mr Babiniotis in 1977, who does what he is the only language expert. But I remember Mr. Babiniotis saying that there is no primary language in Greece and he had built the new Greek common then defending the cleanser. To be clear. You actually know what happened? Because you're shouting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u595	Tell us about school books.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u596	We caught you as a student copying and yelling and you want ten.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u597	Mrs. Vulture! Don't ask questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u598	Let's go to 'erga omnes' now. At first when this state was created, Mr Samaras' position as Foreign Minister was "yes in the name of the Republic of Macedonia". What can we do? The documentary's left. I don't have to open the ministry's files. It's said in his book that Varvitsiotis also says it in his book. All people with authority on your lines say it. Then they said no to the name "Macedonia" and remained a combat perception of the Evert team, Kanellepoulou. They insisted against Mr. Mitsotakis. Since 1993-1994 all the records have been accepted - the complex name. But what complex name please? Another on the inside and another on the outside. Complex name only for abroad. And the concept of 'erga omnes' in all your negotiations until the last few years was one. There is no more than a complex name for bilateral relations. It must not only be for transnational relations, it must also be for international organisations. Or against others not only for international organisations but also for transnational relations. The 'erga omnes' if you see it from the first telegrams by Mr Zacharakis, who was also your MEP and can show it to you, was as he wrote for all international use. Not for any use. And now that you have negotiated some time, even this, for all international use, complain to us why we have practical timetables for implementing 'erga omnes' internally.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u599	But you didn't sign.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u600	Some didn't sign on the other side.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u601	Mrs. Vulture, please. Be quiet. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u602	What did he say about the passport? He was saying a new name and a constitutional name. That's what the reports say. Greece has agreed to discuss a proposal by Mr Nimic for a name in the interior and a name abroad. Greece agreed that Macedonia should be for internal use. It was also confirmed that my assessment that the name...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u603	Are you going to testify to these in the Minutes to get them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u604	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u605	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u606	Some people can't stand the truth. Also along with that name, there was an amendment to the design of passports, which will bear not only the new name but also the constitutional name of the state, and only to us has the new name.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u607	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u608	I have a suspicion that many of my friends in the New Democracy - with some I have good friendly relationships - have confused the name with the aggressive definition. That's another name. 'erga omnes' is not about aggressive determinations and nobody has ever fought this. The ‘erga omnes’ refers to the name and name is above ‘erga omnes’. And that is why I respect them for accepting this issue. And ‘erga omnes’ is not just for external use, it is for all uses. But remember how the problem with 'erga omnes' arose? That's very simple. The European Economic Community decided in 1991 to set up the Bandadter Committee, which would see whether or not the constitutions of these countries have been insulating. And what did the New Democracy government do then? He refused to go to this committee - the bad one - whose creation he voted for. And here, Mr Papoulias, not the former President of the Republic, who was a State Secretary to your own governments - but the former Ambassador says: 'To accept the setting up of a government's representative to any international body, NATO, the EEC and the UN, in order to discuss a national matter in this committee of his own country, without first obtaining its participation, is a sign of diplomatic infidelity and incompetence'. Your Minister has said that. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And now we're going to school books. The accusation is that we are willing to see them, too, and they are ours. Is there anyone who's afraid that if they see ours, they'll find violations of international law? Is that it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u609	Is that the answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u610	Mrs. Vulge, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u611	Mrs. Vulture, it's not my fault if you're irrelevant. All the states of Europe, starting from the Aus Politik of Villa Brad in the 1970s, built joint committees to see history problems in their books. And the first example began between Germany and Poland, which had 10 million dead by the Germans. And you don't even want that? This is international practice. It's my fault you don't know her?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u612	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u613	Mrs. Vulture, I withdraw you to class and do not repeat it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u614	We also met at a dilemma. There is the name of the brand names, the names of the businesses. We did a study with the University of Thessaloniki and the Society of Macedonian Studies - which is not described as friends to us - and found how many companies? Three thousand four hundred found. And how will these companies solve the problem with the name? One year's negotiation for each? We have decided, together with the European Commission and the UN as in other cases, because this is International Law, unless you want to say so...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u615	Please, gentlemen, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u616	The Society of Macedonian Studies is in Thessaloniki, for you who are yelling, not to talk about the relevance you have. We have decided that the best solution is an international committee for three years under the UN and the European Union, which will monitor trade rights on the basis of the criteria of the agreement. It was the only way we could regulate them. Also with regard to NATO and the timetable, I have here a letter to Mr Stoltenberg for sending it to NATO the day before yesterday. It has been committed and the NATO Secretary-General has publicly said that if ratification passes to their Parliament, they are entitled - we are not putting them, we are not claiming to put them or not, they want to - to receive an invitation from NATO. What does an invitation from NATO mean? To start a dialogue with NATO. Are they becoming NATO member states as immoral as I hear three days here? Oh, no. When does he become a NATO member? Only if they fulfil the conditions laid down by Greece. What are these terms? In Article 2 on its last point it says: 'We will make known - in other words - that the first part has completed the referendum, that the constitutional amendments provided for in this agreement have been completed' and that they will be incorporated. So watch out for this. You say we surrender. They are basically a referendum and a change in constitution, to give them after 'O.K.'. And I remember - and I thought we would agree on this - that you always said: 'Don't finish this ratification process before we get the constitutional change', which you have never asked for. You've never really put her in a negotiation. There are texts in the negotiation that the constitutional review is being contraindicated at the moment. Let's not ask for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u617	Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u618	Here it is. Everything will be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u619	You're welcome, Mr. Cryazides. Do not interfere with matters you are not aware of.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u620	Have I ever interrupted you? I'll give it all together. You won't tell me how to talk, sir. That's all in your party. I have freedom in the place I am.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u621	Mr. Kotzia, please don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u622	Here, I'm filing the paperwork for you. I don't give the manuscripts. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I also present to you the interim agreement, Article 13 and four pages from Mrs Army's book on the subject, which shows that this attack is not true. [[At this point, Minister Nikolaos Kotzias presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I want to tell you one last thing. What's the last one? And if I'm provoked, we'll talk about it when we talk about it. There is a negotiation without anyone knowing it or the Council of Ministers to which it was called - I am not saying which government, I do not care about that, I am interested in this secret diplomacy, etc. - to go the negotiator to the Security Council and say that Greece agrees with the same name, but because it cannot be made public, it cannot make it an agreement, passes as a Security Council decision, which will then be invoked by the Greek Government to implement it. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Don't shout. I'll see you in detail when the deal comes to Parliament. Don't shout. We were the most democratic government. We held four ministerial council meetings and informed the Chiefs. Some people didn't want me to let them know. They think I don't know letters and they sent me their representative. We made them updates to the Special Committee on Foreign Affairs - because someone said 'you did nothing' - which they would then come out of. We have therefore accepted today's debate. We have an agreement that makes this distinction in the Balkans. On the one hand there are the forces in Skopje and Greece who want solutions with great effort and effort, and on the other hand there are the forces of inertia, of loose ends and of the game of nationalism and not of patriotism that do not want solutions, but want to perpetuate them and do not care about their consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u623	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u624	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u625	Please, Mrs. Bakoyannis. I want to clarify two things both to the Chamber and to the Minister. Firstly, the documents submitted were submitted in the Minutes. He's with my signature and I've got them here under the cult which he said directly and from the outset is licensed by the Ministry's Supreme Service Council. Otherwise there is a very specific procedure that the Minister is well aware of.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u626	It's a decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u627	Yes, Minister, I know. I am making it clear, because Parliament had yesterday, it has today, it has tomorrow. We do not change logically, on the basis of which documents make it convenient for them to be submitted or not. I'm saying it straight away. I've still kept them here. With this explanation I submit them to the Minutes. Secondly, on the issue of working hours, it is clear that the Minister would be given - and this should be given, because it was the key issue that we discussed - a timely time, as was given to former Prime Ministers. That's how it's given to ministers. It is not a question of the right of time, because the time that the Minister has mentioned is about discussing the draft legislation of the ministers responsible on the one hand, and the secondary and tritology on the other. The times of these debates have been decided by the Conference of Presidents and were the fifteen minutes that we had put together. And it was right to go to forty and there was no objection, as far as I can tell, from either side of the Chamber. I want to clarify these issues, to be in the Minutes too, so that we know how we operate every time. You wanted to say something, Mrs. Bakoyannis. Of course there is no question of discussion, because the Prime Minister will now speak. You understand that. Do not place on the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u628	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u629	What did he tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u630	He referred to me. I need a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u631	I'm not giving you the floor. What did he refer to?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u632	Mr President, I just want a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u633	Then I might give it to you. Wait a minute. Mrs Bakoyannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u634	Mr President, I asked you to be able to answer Mr Kotzia - and I had come yesterday and told you - for a very simple reason. For matters as serious as foreign policy when it is used - in the way in which the Minister made selective - classified documents, they create impressions that do not correspond to reality. I asked Mr Kotzia to submit all the documents yesterday. It's a deal anyway. We are here to go to the House and every colleague from '89 who has been invoked by Mr Kotzias to date and by his own to see. I must, however, present to the House three documents which are not classified, Mr Kotzia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u635	And which you will not read, because you will not speak now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u636	A moment, Mr President, I am sorry, but of course I shall speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u637	No, you don't have the floor, Mrs. Bakoyannis. You should deposit the documents with their title. Understand? [[Noise - Protests]] You're going to file the papers with their title. You'll tell which documents they are and you'll testify. There's no such procedure. Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u638	Mr President, I would be done. The first document is the explanatory memorandum to the Hague decision, because Mr Kotzias said in 'Macedonia - Skopje', which expressly says that Greece - I do not translate it to you much - immediately refused the proposal of 'Macedonia - Skopje'. It's in The Hague's recital so that Mr. Kotzias doesn't use things he doesn't know about. The second is my letter to Mr Milososki with my signature - I am entitled to give it - to which he says why Greece refuses a joint committee. I say that I want to stress that history is a science that is not written by committees and Greece refuses to accept this proposal. I'll give it to you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The third is a non-classified paper from the American Embassy, where the American Ambassador in Skopje says he saw Mr. Gruevski and makes a reference to the center and says Gruevski - because we and Gruevski negotiated, we did not have Mr. Kotzia's fate to negotiate with Zaev - that the Greeks insist on the issue of identity, that is citizenship and want to put their hands on our language. That's what Gruevski says to the American ambassador. And one cannot claim that this was not a matter for the New Democracy. Anyone who has another document and Mr Kotzias will be able to present it all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u639	No, thank you very much. I gave you all the power and I ask you to agree. It's not a matter. It was what had to be done. He wants the floor, too. There's no question, we're just closing up. The Prime Minister will close the debate to proceed with the vote. Mr. Maniot, what do you want? Is there anything personal? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u640	Mr President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs read what I said yesterday in his own way. I would therefore like to inform the House and ask, because it mentioned me personally, Mr Minister. The International Convention on the Law of the Sea was ratified in November 1994. Greece ratified it in 1995. The interim agreement was made in 1995, that is, only a few months after the entry into force of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. Consequently, the Hellenic Republic only a few months after the entry into force of the international agreement was required by Article 13 of the Interim Agreement to give the enclosed state of Skopje the right to access the Greek EEZ. But since then - come to see the tragic mistake you have made - they have been intervening for some twenty years and, therefore, the question I want to make...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u641	Please, Mr. Maniatis, no questions. You did that yesterday. You specified what you wanted. Please don't worry about getting answers. That's what happened now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u642	I'll be out in ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u643	What's it gonna say? For three days you've been out here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u644	This right that after twenty-five years you have been assigned to Skopje, Albania and Bulgaria, countries with which also border Skopje...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u645	Good. The question has been raised. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u646	...and countries which also have sea and which would have had to have given rights about twenty years later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u647	Mr. Maniattes, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u648	And we are the first country to delegate to this enclosed state...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u649	Now what are you doing? Do you have a speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u650	...right to EOZ, while the other two haven't assigned it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u651	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u652	That is the question, and the Minister will have to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u653	Please very much, Mr. Maniotis. Any matter raised and considered by the Minister will be answered. Don't put each other here to what he's going to answer. For God's sake! Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u654	The reason why Article 13 of the Interim Agreement has not been applied is that Greece has not delimited the EEZ since then. As a result, the commitment you have made goes on with us. What I do not find elegant is to accuse us of your commitment, which we found in the negotiation. Secondly, as far as Identity is concerned, the letter quoted by Mrs Bakoyannis, reminds me of what the telegram says: 'In this point, Madam Minister for the term 'Makedonsky'...' - the term 'Makedonsky' is Macedonia - 'as an indication of the language and ethnicity of the people of Skopje'. I didn't want to read it to you. You accepted it. It's a telegram dated 20-9-2018 in Cyril at all times.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u655	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u656	Second of the books, even with Albania, the joint committee that sees Albania's books began. Now, if Samaras did the crime you charge me five years ago, put him in. What's my fault?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u657	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u658	And for The Hague one last thing I'll say. Listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u659	There they are.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u660	Mrs. Bakoyannis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u661	Mrs. Bakoyannis likes to make personal attacks on me. I don't think he's comfortable with what I reveal every time. In any case, as far as The Hague is concerned, I would remind you that we went to an international court, which we lost because of you, because you were out of Bucharest, which did not have to use the veto, thanks to Mr Karamanlis' excellent policy within the Council - because it is only the prime minister in the council - and he took seventeen countries with him thanks to this policy. And then you came out to rejoice that you vetoed, that you hadn't vetoed, and Greece was convicted of the International Court of The Hague for a veto you didn't put. This International Court of The Hague with its decision made made made a difficult challenge for us in the negotiations, because we found a decision that was binding on the country. Your own feats are invoking them to criticize us. That's all I had to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u662	Mr Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u663	Ladies and gentlemen, there are, in fact, certain moments in political time, certain moments in which one has the feeling of being in front of critical decisions, of a historical nature and of a historical nature, and I feel that these days are part of these moments, which one might call historical ones. I say this because in a few days' time we have a very critical meeting that finalises, it closes the last evaluation of the last support programme after eight years in the country. The first day before we had the ratification, the last measures were voted on in this Chamber, which were taken in consultation with the institutions. At the same time, just two days ago, we ended up - after many months of negotiations on a crucial foreign policy issue, in an open wound to our foreign policy, which has been tempting our country for over twenty-six years - with our northern neighbours in an overall agreement which, of course, has several stages until it has been ratified by the Greek Parliament, but can only be described as a very historic moment. So we have two extremely important events for the country: one is the one that seals the passage of Greece from the era of economic covetousness to the age of recovery, and the other is the one that seals - if you like - the passage from a time of stagnation of a problem to our borders, to our northern borders, to the era of the strengthening of the country's international position. What conclusions, however, have you, ladies and gentlemen, drawn from this enlargement of time? The Civic Opposition of these two events has come to the conclusion that now is the time to table a motion of distrust against the government, which has not been done for three years. Honestly, I find it difficult to understand this study, as it may be difficult for the history of the future to understand. It will be difficult to understand, because at a positive juncture for the country the New Democracy is now choosing to exhaust one of its most powerful institutional weapons, its strongest institutional weapon, in order to throw the government down or threaten to throw the government down. But the truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that none of the historians of the future, like any other sober and objective observer, could understand either the limits of your inner-party difficulties and problems or the limits of your political cynicism. Because you know the last thing that concerns Mr Mitsotakis and the leadership of the New Democracy, that is to say the arguments he is reproaching, is in the motion of censure on the government. Neither the strengthening of the country's international position is of particular interest nor the restoration of Greece's leading role in the Balkans is of particular concern to you nor to the recovery of the economy. None of this matters to you. All you care about and seek is the fall of the government, before we finalise the country's exit from the memorial to which you have led the country for eight years, bringing it into bankruptcy. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And that is because you know very well that the beginning of the new era for the country is at the same time the movement of the countdown for any political account of you. Of course I have seen throughout the whole meeting and throughout your speech and your irritation about the double event, firstly, that international public opinion and European public opinion, but also, of course, our partners recognise that this government restores the credibility of the country and, secondly, that there is an international recognition and European recognition of the fact that you are, Mr Mitsotakis, a political opportunist and that you are acting not on the basis of political values and principles, but on the basis of the timing. Because you referred to a point in your speech whether I have a quiet conscience and if I sleep quietly. The one who's stable on what he said has nothing to do with it. How about Macedonia and the Macedonian problem, Mr. Mitsotakis? What was your position and attitude? What was your position and attitude toward Macedonian for all these years? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The most important thing, though, which I have heard and need to comment and comes from this irritation about how international public opinion is recognizing your behaviour, is that it has to do with this creativity which you have told us, that our partners are supposedly happy because we are making it easier for them, as you said - they are happy that we are going to go to the exact interest rates by coming out of the memorials and that is why they are not paying us, and that is why they are not doing so. Listen to what the Chief of Staff Response said, that this is a negative development, that we are leaving after eight years of creditors' actual lower interest rates to go a little higher on the markets, so what are we going to do? Let's stay for ten more years in the memoirs, Mr. Mitsotakis! That's your idea! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Obviously, you did not understand what you read from your speech. You didn't even understand. You have therefore caused this motion of censure for reasons I explained before and not to do with the agreement. But since you have provoked this debate, you will get answers. After all, you have received forty-five minutes answers from the Minister of Foreign Affairs enough to fill anyone who has no full picture of things. I will try to give some, especially to clarify your real motives in the eyes of the Greek people. You went out and told us, Mr. Mitsotakis, that this agreement attempts to divide the Greeks to unite the Skopje. For your bad luck, however, at the same time in the neighbouring country, both Mr. Gruevski and Mr. Ivanov and others, plus these nationalists, say exactly the same thing to Mr. Zaev, that he divides his people to unite the Greeks. In fact, Mr Gruevski said: 'We cannot accept this agreement, because for us it is much worse than the one we discussed in 2009'. He said it. We don't. Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen, obviously because both of them cannot be applied at the same time, that is to say, we must divide the Greeks by uniting the Skopje and Zaev into the Skopje by uniting the Greeks, the truth must be somewhere else, that is, none of them. Do you know what's going on, Mr. Mitsotakis? It applies that you chose with this irresponsible attitude in the "Macedonian" to open Pandora's box in your knowledge. With your identical "driving" positions with the nationalists of VMRO on unauthorised national retreat and dismissal, you do nothing but legalize the extreme, arrogant, nationalistic reason and extreme nationalist terminology. You do this in order to fish in the cloudy waters of the nationalist audience. Indeed, just before, you spoke of false nationalism in your speech. You have not denounced nationalism. The falsifier! Because, obviously, the original you adopt, you have him on your side. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So you have dispersed these two - three days that we are discussing this issue here in this Chamber - and I refer to your Members - who have not been heard in Parliament in dealing with a national issue, from post-multiple and then at least. You have left your MPs, I do not know if you have incited them to speak of traitors, of betrayals, of dividends, and as a result of this behaviour you will leave the ferry door wide open to the nationalist evacuation of the Golden Dawn, of the praisers of the junta and of the nazis to come to Parliament, in this House, and inciting them to be devastated in a democracy. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] You have a full responsibility, Mr. Mitsotakis, for that. You have a wholehearted responsibility that, as a hostage to the right wing of your party and Mr Samaras, you are giving the snake legalisation to eviscerate from his egg and even within the man of democracy in Parliament. You have a huge responsibility because you are the one who finally chooses to divide the Greeks into your desperate attempt to unite your haircut. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] In this respect, you did not even hesitate to involve the President of the Republic in the attempt to destabilise you have tried to set up. But, Mr Mitsotakis, I will tell you frankly that despite the poor representation of institutional derailment you have attempted to set up on the occasion of the 'Macedonian' agreement, your big problem - and you know, this is not easy to hide - it is that you are pretending that you do not believe what you are saying. And that can't be hidden. It is not easy for you to claim and draw up serious arguments for the construction of an agreement which includes - and above all - what was first defended by Constantine Mitsotakis and then, of course - very soon, of course - was the backbone of a line that was also called a national line. Because what we now have on the table and which the Minister for Foreign Affairs has presented to you in detail is an agreement that every Greek Prime Minister, I admit, since 1995, at least, after the interim agreement, would like to have on the table. Because it includes not only the composite name with a geographical definition of erga omnes, but it also includes the constitutional change to date of the neighbour's constitutional name, which is recognised by a hundred forty countries throughout the world and not by Zimbabwe and Burkina Faso, as heard by this party, but by the United States of America among them, Russia, China, the largest countries in the world. It therefore includes, as a precondition for the constitutional change of the name, but also for the constitutional change to eradicate any term of invasion contained in the constitution of our neighbours. You made me laugh because you read my message. And you read what I said right. In other words, you read that I said that the neighbors decided to change their name, from now on they would be called 'Severna Macedonija', which in Greek - I said it - and at least you should have had the intelligence to cut it down there, and if your argument were believed, you said so - it is 'North Macedonia'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u664	They missed them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u665	He didn't get away. They're looking for them to keep saying we made fun of somewhere we lied to. So what did the government representative of Skopje respond next day? Asked by the real.gr - because there was a matter in the media on the Internet and in the pro-political press that we lied to this issue - "Is it true that you have agreed with Greece that he can choose whether he will call you "North Macedonia" or "Severna Macedonija" in your bilateral relations?" And the answer of the government representative was: "During the negotiations there were a lot of discussions in this direction. For this reason and yes, Greece has this option." Let's go down. Say, and say again, you're rejoining in your attempt to find falsehoods, that this agreement allegedly recognizes Macedonian nation. Please show me what part of the agreement is recognised as a Macedonian nation. I, Mr Mitsotakis, see nowhere in the agreement there is either English translation or English, the word "Macedonian nation", "Macedonian nation", the word "nationality", the word "ethnicity".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u666	The components are two: language and citizenship.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u667	Leave the components, Mr. Athanasios. We've been through this for three days.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u668	Mr. Athanasios, you know what? I have no objection to hearing your thoughts and you are a mild man and nobleman. But I noticed that throughout your Chief's speech no one was interrupted. Don't interrupt me. So I, ladies and gentlemen, see what I see in this agreement, Article 7(5), is that we fully safeguard the right to continue using the conditions we have been using to date for the designation of our neighbours. Do you want "Slavumacedons"? Do you want Skopje? We are not prevented by anyone, on the basis of this agreement, as far as their ethnicity is concerned. And of course at no point in the text is there a nation recognition, a Macedonian nation recognition. I also see in this agreement, in Article 1(3)(b), that we fully reserve the right to call the nationality of our neighbours. While for the past twenty-five years in all their travel documents - and the Minister of Foreign Affairs informed you - and with what they have travelled to our country they have travelled with citizenship 'Macedonian', 'Macedonna', as if all of a sudden we have discovered America! However, I see that in Article 1(3)(b) from now on it will appear in the travel documents next to the word "Macedonian" in force until now and entering Greece and around the world, the words "Citizen of Northern Macedonia". I also see, ladies and gentlemen, that Article 7 has done something that has never been discussed and has obviously never been conquered in the twenty-six years that we have been negotiating on this issue and in my personal assessment - you may have another view - I think it is the most crucial issue. I think it is the most crucial issue because, in my view, if you want me to make a paradigm, our soul is not the geographical determination in front of the word "Macedonia", but it is our history, it is our cultural heritage, it is our symbols, it is the historical faces that have been carved and usurped all the previous years. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] In Article 7 there is an absolute differentiation once and for all from the ancient Greek heritage of Macedonia. In other words, a definitive end to our attempt to familiarize and revitalize our history, through the complete, clear and explicit recognition of the Greekity of the ancient Macedonian historical heritage, historical persons and historian symbols. They are also bound by our neighbours with Article 8 to make changes to all monuments, all official texts and all inscriptions where reference is made to the ancient Greek history of Macedonia. Already before the agreement, the name of their airport, their national road, their stage and soon - this has been decided - the name of the statue will be changed in the central square of Skopje, where it has been deliberately mentioned to date as the statue of the field warrior. They are therefore required, on the basis of Article 8, to place in all statues where they refer to historical faces of the Greek cultural heritage the inscription that it is, for example, the Great Alexander that it is the Macedonian warrior of ancient Macedonia, and it is a symbol of the friendship and unity of the two peoples. When did you win that, which is what we're represented by the Macedonians? When? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The same will be done for Olympiad and for Philip and for all the other monuments of the cultural heritage of the Greek years of Macedonia, which, of course, at the same time - and they will mention it and we are honoured - are part of the global cultural heritage. At the same time, Article 8 is required within six months in any public space the sixteenth star of Vergina is posted to restore it, because this symbol is a symbol of ancient Greek Macedonia. When did you win that kind of thing, merchants of patriotism? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] As I see also, ladies and gentlemen, in this agreement, because I would remind you that it was a major issue in the period 1992-1993, that any insulating from the Constitution is removed - it is not a theoretical commitment - since, with the revision of their Constitution, they will eliminate any reference to minorities in neighbouring countries. I repeat, it has emerged - and rightly - as the major issue between 1992 and 1993. Finally, I see, for this very infamous debate on the Macedonian language, which, in passing, was recognized internationally by the Conference of the United Nations in 1977, there is a clear reference to being recognized as South-Slavic, which has nothing to do with the historical heritage of ancient Macedonia. Because Aristotle did not train in the slavics the Great Alexander, but used the ancient Greek language. That's what I see in the deal you don't see. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And I ask you: do all this matter to you or do they not? You who have been negotiating for so many years, have you ever managed to ensure that? Nikos Kotzias told you what you were giving to the negotiations. Tell us what you've got? Did you get anything? So let's talk openly. Your problem isn't that the deal is bad. Your problem is that we have an agreement and - even worse for you - that this agreement is good. Half of you wanted no deal. The Foreign Minister referred to the two camps, those that leave issues open and those that solve. The other half, however, - because they are not all in this line that did not want an agreement - do not want one thing: it is this government that proves it can succeed where all your own governments have tried and failed. Before I go to the fait accompli, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say: I listened with great interest to the former Minister of Foreign Affairs, the former President of PASOK, Mr Venizelos - I heard you here at the Step - saying that he defended himself as Foreign Minister in 2014, at the UN General Assembly, your view and position...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u669	As a place of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u670	As a place of the country, but yours. I also heard Mr Samaras confirming it, that it was not his opinion. Well, I'm going to overcome the fact that it's extremely acidic to criticise Kammenos, who has another view, while you as Foreign Minister said that you had another view, not as Minister of National Defence. But I'm over that. For Kammenos it is an institutional diversion, but for you it was an institutional balance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u671	I have made the country's standing position since 1993.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u672	But I do not want to open a debate on this. That's not my argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u673	It's your firm opinion. Okay. You said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u674	Obviously it's your firm view, but that's not my argument. Listen to me. So you said that and Mr Samaras also defended it. I now read the government's programming statements, the first of Mr Samaras, of 2012, by the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the time, Dimitris Avramopoulos, who says: "On the subject of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Greece Greece, in displaying the required constructive spirit, Greece has taken a major compromise, accepting a complex name with geographical identification and use for all "erga omnes". What's man doing? He's reading the national line. And on this matter Mr. Samaras didn't know? And in this regard Mr Avramopoulos had a different view from the Prime Minister of Government? Who's he laughing at? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Obviously, I'm not talking about you, Mr. Venizelo. You understood the argument. So, here or you were, as Mr.Adonis Georgiadis, the Vice President, "bluffads and pajamas" has already confessed, or you are also mocking the Greek people and the international community. Decide what you've done for so many years! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So now I come to the crucial question, which I would like to put before those who managed the Macedonian for years, and above all, of course, in the Anti-Civilisation. My critical question is this: when these feats were being created, for which, indeed, today you are abdicating us that we have not been able to lift them, where have you been? Because, obviously, we didn't rule the country. So where were you in 1977 when no objections were raised to the adoption of the Macedonian language at the UN conference here in Athens? Where were you when the late Evangelos Averov in Parliament in 1959 spoke of Macedonian language? Where were you later when Evangelos Averov told Popov, the Yugoslav Foreign Minister, the famous phrase "We have an envelope, but do we keep it in the drawer" and secretly agree the line of silence, the line of unopened opposition to the issue of identity? In this debate in the Chamber there have also been interesting reports from the years of Penelope Delta and the Myrbilis Army. I confess I didn't know. It's been recorded. I looked. It's true. Penelope Delta and the Myrivilis Army wrote about Macedonian language and national conscience. And now you say that SYRIZA came and loaded them on the back of the Greek people. But let's not go that far. When this state was independent, what did you do? Caesar's Caesar's. Constantine Mitsotakis has proved himself, in very difficult circumstances, attempted to find a viable solution. But Mr. Samaras, who's giving you a line today, what did he do? After giving a broad signature to Community Regulation No 3567, I referred earlier - on 2 December 1991, in which the term 'Macedonia' was registered for the first time in a Community document, he later decided to resist attempting to throw the government of which he was a member and was trying to find a solution. Just like you do now! And it's ironic of luck, Mr. Mitsotakis. You are not a member, obviously, but you are trying to throw this motion of censure a government trying to find a solution after twenty-six years. And you, Mrs. Bakoyannis. I'm interested in historical moments when younger people learn to remember. I will not refer to declassified documents. However, I shall refer to events which are not very much in the memory of the older and of course younger people do not even know them. On 1 April 1992 Mr Samaras met Mr Pineiro, the Portuguese Foreign Minister at the time, when Portugal was presided over by the EEC. Mr Pineiro presents his proposal package, which includes an amendment to the country's constitution, in full accordance with the proposals put forward by the Greek side to the Portuguese Presidency, as he says. Mr Samaras then rejects the name "New Macedonia" proposed, but welcomes the adoption of the Greek proposals for the Review of the Neighbourhood Constitution included in the Pineiro package. What were these proposals? I'm going to testify them, but please just for the use of the parties' leaders, because it's not right...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u675	Not in the Minutes, Prime Minister. It will only be at the disposal of the political leaders.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u676	I will submit them only for the use of the parties' leaders, because, you know, it is not right to enter a tide now with these arguments. So I have here the aide memoir of the Greek proposal, where there is not even a word about changing petitions to a nation, a language. No mention! To remember what you were negotiating. So Mr Samaras has never asked for a change in ethnic and language from Mr Pineiro. For this reason, I will also be tabling the Minutes from his meeting with Mr Pineiro in April 1992. Of course, later, in the interim agreement, it also does not refer to any arrangements concerning the nation and the language or the nationality that we now regulate in a more favourable way for us, so that the use of the term 'Makedonski', 'Macedonna', as well as the use of the term Macedonian language over the years, is consolidated. But, in 2001, when the Ahrid Agreement was signed and a representative of the European Union, this agreement is clearly mentioned in Macedonian and Macedonian languages, without objection from the Greek side. And you now have the courage - you who have been negotiating all these years and never raised this issue - to say that it is a bad deal because we did not get these two back. It is a shame, ladies and gentlemen, and the Greek people must understand that this is a shame to some who simply do not want to accept the great success of this government. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] In order to be very clear about the hypocrisy of Mr Samaras, I would like to submit to us again, of the parties' leaders, the official minutes of the talks that took place on 30 January 2013 under his prime ministership, as well as the talks on 5 May 2014, where the negotiator expressly says that ‘According to his instructions, the issues of identity do not fall within the UN talks, as they do not refer to either the UN decisions or the interim agreement’. It is a package of documents which I will make available for the leaders of the parties. So where was the fiery fighter and vindicator of the sacred destinies of the country and Hellenism to come back to take back ethnicity and language and to secure the place of the country? And today I was disproved by the Stepma and said: 'But how can you blame me for being in the two crucial sessions in 1991, the one which was at the post of Istanbul Mitsotakis - the other where the term 'Macedonia' was registered for the first time in a Community directive and the crucial meeting of the Foreign Ministers at which Yugoslavia was dismantled?' So this fiery fighter, while fully responsible, because in these two critical meetings he did not claim Greek interests as he should, he later came to charge that responsibility to his Prime Minister. That's the reality. Am I wrong? And he accused me that I cannot say that he is both endemic and also intransigent. That is exactly what I say, that where it was necessary to be intransigent, it was endemic and later where it did not need to, but it had to go into the national interest, it made it intransigent to sell patriotism. That's why I blame him. To trade patriotism, to build a political career. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And he gives you a line today, Mr. Mitsotakis. And don't play with your phone and you when I'm talking, because before you've noticed me. I'm kidding. I don't mind you looking at your phone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u677	Prime Minister, before you continue, please deliver these documents - the head of the Legislative Service will come - in a file to follow the procedure and you will proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u678	There is no such procedure, Mr President. He had to give it a little ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u679	Please, Mr. Tragakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u680	So at this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you - and I will submit the relevant document in the Minutes, because it is also a video that is circulating and giving the e-mail address - that in 1992, when Mr Samaras left the Mitsotakis government, and it was his responsibility that we had not established before the independence of this country, another name came out and said in his statements: 'I asked Mr Mitsotakis to make a clear statement that Greece does not recognise the Skopjes the right to call itself 'Macedonians'. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister did not accept it because he wanted to call himself "Macedonians". That's why he quit the government. That's what the older ones remember and learn. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The fiery fighter, however, came today to say that I am a nationalist and Mr. Kotzias great nationalist. That's well known. But this is the unshakable judge of the patriotism of the Greeks. He is so steadfast that he has the inalienable right not only to criticise me and Mr Kotzias, but also to monitor the views of the President of the Republic, a man known for his political path and, of course, the fact of how close he was to Constantine Karamanlis. He told us, however, that he has no responsibility for the birth of the problem and that I am slandering him. Therefore, instead of my reply, I would also like to quote for the common use of videos - an address, which refers to videos - for the Greek people to know and remember how Constantine Mitsotakis had mentioned in the House in 1993 what I spoke about the two critical meetings the day before yesterday. He said that on 2 December 1991 Mr Samaras had accepted, during the debate on the Rules of Procedure, that the Republic should first refer to the name 'Macedonia'. I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I think, however, that the most important thing that will be interested in being submitted to the Minutes is exactly what Constantine Mitsotakis said at the time, in an interview included in the book of Stavros Jima entitled 'Centre' for this critical meeting, at which Yugoslavia was dissolving. Mr Mitsotakis had called because he obviously was a meeting of the Foreign Ministers, and he had actually asked him to resolve this matter, precisely because he had acknowledged that there was a dreadful desire on the part of Germany for the independence of Croatia and Slovenia, so he gave it a matter and believed that we could win it. It says, then, literally: “It was wet. It's not his fault, it's my fault I sent an infinite man. Retreat to unbearable pressure." [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Look out! "It would retreat anyway. I didn't disagree why he retreated. But I said to him after that, ‘ Untouchable. At that time you could take what you wanted, say "I retreat, but I want you to solve the Skopje problem". The Germans would then solve the problem of Skopje in exchange for that of Croatia”. I am tabling this document for the Minutes too. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So now it comes, it moves our fingers and gives you a line, Mr. Mitsotakis. Because I'm already over time, I'm not going to go on. I warned you the other day, Mr Mitsotakis, that it would be a little painful for you to meet, precisely because you will not only be measured with your responsibilities towards history, but you will also be measured with your family history. So I come, ladies and gentlemen, and ask you directly: we have an agreement in front of us. We have presented to you why we think that Mr Kotzias is the best country has ever had in recent years. There may be objections to that. I would like to ask you, however, directly: after all these years and all that has been done, it is in Greece's interest not to perpetuate this dispute with our northern neighbours when, in fact, they accept 'erga omnes' geographically prior to the name 'Macedonia', they accept to clarify - the most critical one! - that they have nothing to do with the heritage, language, tradition, symbols of ancient Macedonia. Is it in our interest to perpetuate, yes or no? Is it in our interest to perpetuate? Yes or no? Is it in the interest of the place to perpetuate? Is it a national, patriotic attitude at a time when the challenges in the Southeast Mediterranean and the Balkans and the Aegean are huge for the country? At a time when our concern inevitably requires our diplomatic capital to be targeted at Cyprus and the Aegean Sea. Is it in our interest to keep an unjust front open now to our foreign policy? Is that patriotism? If you believe it, tell the Greek people. Do you also consider, ladies and gentlemen, that this small country, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, poses a threat to Greece? Is that our national confidence? A country of one and a half million poses a threat? Or do you consider it beneficial for this country to remain a pretext for the mountainous outlets of third countries investing billions in the region, including Turkey? If you think so, say it. Or do you think it would be good for this country not even to exist and to our advantage to dissolve? Break up for the benefit of whom? Obviously, in the interests of a large Albania and a larger Bulgaria. Because that's what this is about. If you think this is a national and patriotic interest, say it. Explain exactly what national interest this development serves. I, ladies and gentlemen, having not the responsibility for managing political costs, but the full consciousness of the responsibility for managing a country-critical issue, namely the full sense of historical and patriotic responsibility, refuses to accept this dreadful and miserable perception of my country. I refuse! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I refuse to accept this miserable and appalling definition of patriotism, which has been given by this step dozens of patriots of patriotism. For it is not patriotism that hates people's homelands. It is not patriotism, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said, to insist on the preservation of the loose ends and the majesty. Remember, it was the majestics that led to national tragedies, as in the case of Cyprus. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I, ladies and gentlemen, take responsibility, historical and political responsibility, and my government, because I believe that patriotism is to protect our historical and cultural heritage and, at the same time, to make Greece a leading force for cooperation and co-development in the Balkans, the leaders of stability and cooperation at the eastern borders of Europe. That's patriotism. This is a patriotic vision and a sense of national self-confidence. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] That is why, friends and friends, colleagues and colleagues, I believe that we need to move forward. I believe that Greece is not a weak, small and frightening country. It cannot remain captive of inferiority and persecuting complexes by invisible enemies and cannot be a retreat in geopolitical games of others. It is a country that recovers its lost self-confidence, which is actively moving in the international field, exploring alliances and partnerships, a country with objectives, hierarchies in its foreign policy, which knows to see dangers and prevent them, which recognises the historical importance of its role in the Balkans and the Mediterranean, a role of leader on the basis of the friendship and development of the countries of the region. I invite you all together to consider what made Greece great over the centuries. It's her story, it's her culture, it's her values. It is Greece of democracy, freedom, peace and cooperation. For that reason, I feel that Greece has a historic responsibility for the National Representation to work, this Greece of tomorrow to build. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] With these thoughts, I call on you to reject the proposal of distrust from the New Democracy and to move on together, to return a page for Greece tomorrow, not Greece of yesterday, of misery and bankruptcy. For Greece we deserve to go forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u681	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u682	It's not a day-to-day conversation. It is not the Prime Minister's announcement, as it would have been. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u683	Ask the Prime Minister if he has any objection to me answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u684	Please very much. It's not about asking the Prime Minister. The procedure is that you have asked for distrust and for the government and the Prime Minister, as last speakers, to fall completely back on why the government must be voted on. That's how it closes. There is no debate that would be perfectly reasonable if we had, I told you, either the procedure you rejected, that is to say the Prime Minister's announcements or the debate before the day before. A ping - Pong of statements and clarifications cannot now be made. You recognize it. This is a topical process which cannot be interfered with or anything. You're very welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, this procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u685	Ask the Prime Minister if he has any objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u686	What do you want, Mr. Mitsotakis? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u687	You are very selective, Mr President, when you refer to the procedure. Because you are well aware that no debate on a motion of censure or a motion of confidence has been held by a Minister following the speech of the Chief of Staff. No one!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u688	I just told you both in 2007 and 2009 in the Karamanlis governments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u689	You regulate the procedure as it suits you. I understand - and I close with this - the fear of the Prime Minister and his inability to refer to Mr Kammenos. It's okay. I think everyone has understood exactly what happened today in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u690	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this procedure lasted thirty-eight-and-a-half hours in fifty-one hours, in other words within two and a half days and less, after the previous procedure for the provision of prerequisites. I think full comfort was given. They spoke a hundred and ninety-three colleagues. They have all spoken and I think it was really worth it on the ground that this debate should take place. Now the National Representation will decide on the request for distrust to the government. Please, the texts that have been tabled will be in the custody of the Head of the Legislative Service, in the vault of the House, with access to all the Heads of Parliament's parties and their associates. Tomorrow you will see how you will have access, in the process that we have followed, to other documents beforehand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u691	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the motion of censure against the government submitted by the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis and seventy-fifth Members of the Group's Parliamentary Group, in accordance with Rule 84 of the Constitution and Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure. There will be a roll-call vote on the motion of censure, which will be held in accordance with the provisions of Rules 142(4) and (5), in conjunction with Rule 141(5) and 72 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Responding to the motion of censure responds to 'HAI'. Not accepting the motion of censure responds to 'OR'. Refusing to vote will answer 'PANIS'. Mrs Anastasia Gara is on the list by SYRIZA and Mr. Apostolos Vesyropoulos from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, which makes their vote known on the motion of censure. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u692	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, the letter sent to the Bureau by Mr Christos Karayannides, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u693	Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that a letter from Mr Ioannis Sahinidis, who knows us that he is absent from the vote on the motion of censure against the government tabled by the Chief of Staff, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and that if he were present he would vote 'NAI'. This letter, which expresses the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but is not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u694	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u695	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House the result of a roll-call vote on the motion of censure against the government, submitted by the Chief of Officerial Responsibility and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis and seventy-fifth Members of the Group of the European Parliament, in accordance with Rule 84 of the Constitution and Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. A total of 280 Members voted. In favour of the motion of censure, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 127 Members. On the motion of censure, 153 Members voted against. ‘PARTS’ voted no one, in accordance with the following protocol a roll-call vote:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u696	The motion of censure by the Members of the New Democracy against the Government is therefore rejected. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour of announcing to the House that the President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos by letter to the President of the Parliament informs us that Mr Kammenos Dimitrios from today 16 June 2018 does not belong to the Group of Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u697	I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u698	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-16-S1-commons.u699	With the consent of the House at 22.08 p.m. the sitting for the next Monday, June 18, 2018, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of current questions.
