ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the current questions, let me announce the following requests for the absence of Members abroad: MEP Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis seeks permission from a short-day absence for personal reasons in Great Britain from 6 February 2018 until 8 February 2018. Congressman Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from February 5, 2018 until February 6, 2018. MEP Mr Nikolaos Dendias asks for a short-day absence abroad from 7 February 2018 until 9 February 2018. The Member, Mr Eleftherios Aygeakis, shall request permission from a short-day absence abroad from 7 February 2018 until 8 February 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The second, under number 948/30-1-2018, timely question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament Fotidis of the New Democracy, Christos Stakouras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Evolution and completion of the process of repayment of public debts to individuals", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. George Hulirakis, due to a workload. The fourth under number 953/30-1-2018, the first question of the Attica MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problems of the students' restaurants, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Education, Research and Religion Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou, because he will be a speaker at the Regional Conference in Patras. Furthermore, the first question under number 949/30-1-2018 of the New Democracy MP, Nikis Kerameos, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Inspection of violence and lawlessness in higher institutions", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religion Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou, because he will be speaking at the Regional Conference in Patras. The first question with number 180/5-10-2017 question of the circle of petitions and questions by the MP Drama of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Following vacant posts of educational staff in the Department of Oenology and Food Drama of TEI Drama" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou, because he will be speaking at the Regional Conference in Patras. Also, the fourth question under number 600/23-10-2017 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The establishment of an Environmental Education Centre in the Antonis Tritsis Park" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou, because he will be a speaker at the Regional Conference in Patras. The fourth under number 880/23-1-2018 appropriate question from the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Gakis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Measures for the dental care of children with special needs in the island country", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. Also, the fifth question under number 849/16-1-2018 of the Second-cycle MP Arta of the New Democracy, George Stylios, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Illustration picture presents the General Hospital of Artas", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Paul Polakis. Also, the sixth question under number 851/16-1-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems of personnel shortages, building infrastructures and equipment at the Hospital of Agios Nikolaos Lassithi, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. The seventh question under number 772/9-1-2018, the Second-cycle question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: Paediatric Hospital in Western Thessaloniki, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Deputy Minister of Health, Pavlos Polakis. The eighth Question No 708/2-1-2018 by Mr Georgiou Vlachos, Member of the Commission of the European Communities, concerning the application of clawback to Contracted Health Providers and not Manufacturers, importers, distributors/suppliers of medical devices, will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis. The ninth ninth under number 754/8-1-2018, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, New Democracy, Jason Fotilla, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "In a marginal situation the infrastructures of the public hospitals in the country", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. The fifth question under number 453/17-10-2017 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: ‘EKAV Station Recommendation in Neapolitan Boeia of the Municipality of Monemvasia’, will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis. The second question, under number 954/30-1-2018, of the second question of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To pay the former employees everything that is due to them", will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou, because he will be a speaker at the Regional Conference in Patras. Also, the third question under number 879/23-1-2018, the second time question by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gregorios Stoyannidis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Following the licensed number of jobs in casinos", will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotou, because he will be a speaker at the Regional Conference in Patras. The third question with number 2290/28-12-2017 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To renew the concession of use to the Ministry of Justice, in order to advance the maintenance and improvement of the existing Judgeial Palace of Heraklion (previous court/Privatial court building)", will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou, because he will be speaking at the Regional Conference in Patras. The third, with number 942/29-1-2018, a top-circuit question from the First Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republic of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Loss for benefit from the night-to-day charge and the increased VAT on the islands", will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Catherine Papanatziou. Finally, the second question under number 895/2-11-2017 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The need to rationalise the number and minimum amount of payment of the instalments of inheritance tax, donations and parental benefits", will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr.Akaterini Papanatsiou. There is a letter from the Secretary of the Ministerial Council stating the reasons for the infringement. Before we begin the debate on the one timely question that remains to be debated, I will give Mr Kyriazidis the floor for a minute. Minister, although as many times as I at least chair you are present in the Chamber for the parliamentary control of your Ministry, I must say that if this goes on, one of Parliament's two institutional functions better to abolish it. I see that parliamentary control is on the verge of getting into an intensive care unit, and I don't know whether or not we're gonna find a bed! I see Ministries, where there are Deputy Ministers and State Secretarys. To accept that the Minister went to Patras for a conference. I understand that. There is also a deputy, a State Secretary. You're on your own and you're on your way. Mr Kyriazides, I understand that you want to protest because I see that your question is repeatedly postponed. I don't take time because we have a problem with the watch. But take for a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, you have made the recommendation well and to some extent I would say that it responds to a joint request from Members of Parliament. I must tell you honestly that I have been trying since the end of June to get a reply from the then competent Deputy Minister of Education. I would stress this, because it is indeed the Deputy Minister who is responsible. So it would be possible to be here today. Unfortunately, since June, I have been trying with questions and since October I have been trying with specific timeliness to get an answer. It has been about a year now and I see the same tactic and practice here, and you will allow me to say and strengthen and make the request and request to you, because we have made an effort as Members, in any case, to improve this process, to change - and it has indeed been accepted in the sense that the whole issue will be improved - and finally I see that not only has been improved, but that seventeen Members have tabled corresponding questions, from the seventeen topical questions only one will be answered. I am, of course, interested in the Oenology Department of Drama. Indeed, I had made a commitment that it would be sent from the point of view of staff in the new educational year and that is why I have been trying since October. I haven't got an answer. On the other hand, I see a subdelegation of the Oenology Department, of course, and the removal of the President of the Oenology Department recently. If the government wants the Oenology Division to close it, I say clearly that this is not going to happen. Drama is maintained to a certain extent by her wineries, if you like, and her economy, but also the society in terms of finding work. The wineries of Drama are well known and famous as the excellent wine. We won't allow it. On the other hand, I would like to say, Minister, that your government...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u4	Mr Kyriazides, do not now address the Minister. I have left you to develop your position, but the Minister is neither responsible nor competent.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u5	I'm sorry, Mr. President. I say this in the sense that it was a government commitment that public accountability would be one of the main issues that it would serve. I don't see that. On the other hand, if you want to abolish the relevant procedure, we will not allow that to happen, Mr President. Indeed, as you have pointed out, it is one of the two parliamentary procedures which tends to be abolished, what we are discussing here today and I think we are not going well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u6	Shut up, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u7	On the other hand, Mr President, I must stress that this cannot continue. If you want to degrade us, deport us as a Parliament, the Bureau has this responsibility. We have recently seen what happened with a Minister who has been delayed for a short time, and he apologized publicly to his colleagues and submitted his resignation. There is a challenge here, there is a question, there is a problem, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u8	It is, of course, not the work of the Bureau - the Bureau is in a difficult position - it is the Conference of Presidents. Without wanting to make Mr. Voutsi's attorney, Mr. Voutsi does not feel happy about this situation. You're right, though. We'll see what can be done. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to my colleague Mrs Katsavria - Sioropoulou, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-seven students and students and two teachers from the 2nd Corinth High School. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] So we move on to the debate on the first with number 952/30-1-2018 in the first cycle of MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Iamatic Bathrooms and Karditsa tourism policy". My fellow Member - I don't know - at Plastira Lake do you want to do this? The only question that will be discussed today will be answered by the Minister of Tourism present, Mr Helena Kountoura. Here, Mrs. Katsavria, you have the floor. I will allow you to develop it - after all, only one question will be discussed - as the clock does not work and I cannot start the time. I would ask you not to abuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the main priorities of our national tourist strategy and the region's tourist development are the promotion of thematic forms of tourism, such as health tourism and health and well-being tourism. The great stock of natural resources and thermal sources available to our country is recording a prosperous outlook for the development of heating. The lack of an institutional framework in the health tourism sector as well as the financing of the exploitation of thermal sources and their infrastructures has not facilitated investment in order to create a quality tourism product and appropriate infrastructure and has kept investments and production of high level heating services away. For many years, OTA I have been in the jurisdiction of the above thermal sources and their businesses, which have been operating so far, have been facing an important problem related to the recognition of natural resources as thermal resources, the licensing, the certification of thermal water and its tourist use. It is important, Minister, that OTAs should be given the opportunity to distribute thermal water legally and in accordance with rules to open up the investment horizons in the area of thermal tourism. The Municipality of Sofadon, Karditsa, has rich natural resources with two thermal sources in operation and use, the Smokovou Loutras and Dranstas-Kaitsas, which operate, but are not sufficiently exploited, as well as the Sulla source that is bending with excellent water and remains untapped. With supportive policies to exploit this healing wealth, coupled with the excellent climate, the natural beauty and rich cultural and historical tradition of the region, it can emerge as the destination of healing tourism for four seasons with multiple benefits. Despite the excellent water quality of these thermal sources, these have not yet been officially recognised, which discourages the full use, modernisation and expansion of the existing infrastructure, the improvement of operating conditions and the upgrading of their services and investments in the wider region. Minister, thermal tourism in the Municipality of Sofadon - and in Carditsas, in general - can be a lever of economic growth by spreading to local communities, creating new jobs, new professional activity and entrepreneurship and new sources of revenue in combination with other forms of tourism, but also with the primary sector, processing and trade. So I ask you what action you are going to take to simplify and speed up procedures for the recognition of health resources and for their exploitation. What funding and from what sources - national or European - has the Ministry guaranteed to encourage investment in health tourism? What height is it? What is the aim of the Ministry of Tourism and of whom is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u10	Here, Minister, you also have the floor for comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, the legislative framework concerning health tourism and, in particular, health tourism has had serious deficiencies and has not enabled the natural health resources to be recognised in Greece. So we could not move on to growth and investment in health tourism. I would mention to you that the legislative regime, which we have received, has essentially prevented the development of health tourism, because the effluent waters of the thermal sources have been considered as waste and sewage, so that they cannot be recognised, but of course they cannot be licensed and, as you can see, they cannot move forward with any investment interest. We have resolved this chronic problem by declassifying water from sewage and waste and by identifying the beneficial properties of the health sources so that they can be recognised and then licensed. This regulation authorised Greece's first special tourist infrastructure with health services in March 2017 in a hydrotherapy centre in Evia, which finally received the special operating signal so that it could operate legally. We have enabled the Committee on the Protection of Vimatic Natural Resources, which has proceeded with the rapid recognition of natural resources as thermal resources throughout Greece. Up to now more than 50% of the requests have been identified and the committee shall meet at very regular intervals to approve the applications submitted immediately when their dossiers are complete. We proceeded with drawing up joint ministerial decisions aimed at adopting modern standards for the operation of health tourism infrastructures. The two joint ministerial decisions have been concluded. We're waiting for their publication in the FEK. The first relates in particular to the definition of the technical and functional specifications for the establishment, conversion and expansion of thermal treatment units and centres for radio tourism, heating and a procedure for the provision of a special operating mark by the Ministry of Tourism. The second relates to the definition of the corresponding specifications for the maritime therapy centres and the procedure for granting a specific operating mark. In this context, both the source of Swaziland and the source of Smokov have been examined by the Committee for the Protection of Victims of Physical Resources, where it was found that there are shortcomings in the topographical charts sent, so that the Committee cannot proceed directly to their adoption. The service immediately followed the procedures provided for, as was in any case informed by the Municipality of Sofada - in particular on 16 January 2018 - in order to carry out the corrections and the committee awaits the transmission and submission of the new information in their file in order to proceed with the recognition process. With regard to the ESRB, we have designed and launched two programmes to support existing small and medium-sized tourist enterprises to modernise and upgrade them and to set up new small and medium-sized tourist enterprises. At this stage is open and the call for proposals to private individuals who want to set up a new tourist business, with a total budget of EUR 120 million and an investment budget of up to EUR 300,000 each. This action aims at strengthening small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and eligible categories of activities, of course including thematic forms of tourism, including health tourism. Having now proceeded to the necessary interventions in the institutional framework through existing - and also new programmes for the ATT - we are seeking to encourage the investment of thermal sources across the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u12	Mrs. Katsavria, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, the efforts of the Ministry of Tourism and your own personal efforts are evident in promoting thematic forms of tourism. I am pleased with your initiatives on thermal tourism. With this decision I hope and very briefly hope that the small details, which have prevented the certification of these thermal sources so far, that is, the sources of Smokovos, Drastas - Kaitsas and Sultana, will soon be settled. This certification opens the way for the use of thermal sources, facilitates the investment concerned and develops tourism in the region. Obviously in this direction other actions are needed, the initiative of which I hope the Municipality of Sofada will soon be taken, which is also a member of the Greek Municipal Association of Viamatic Sources, as well as the Public Property Company, with the support of the Ministry of Tourism, so that solutions can be found to key issues. I am telling you that the property of Lutras Sokovos belongs to the EBRD and has granted them for exploitation in the Municipality of Sofadon until 2028. However, the Development Company, which operates these Bathrooms along with the hotel facilities of Redina, is in a very unfavourable economic position. There is a clear need for substantial investment, both in Loutras Smokovos and in Loutras Drancystas-Caitsas and in Loutra Suladas, under an effective investment scheme, which must in any case come from the Municipality of Sofadas, in order to create a quality tourist product with appropriate infrastructure. So, now that the first step has been taken with the development of the recognition process, it is necessary to finance and modernise the thermal treatment units and the facilities of the thermal source facilities, as well as the accommodation and feeding infrastructure, which they also operate. Madam Minister, I think that after many years we are finally creating the conditions that will lead to the health tourism of our country in development. I am convinced that now is the time to plan, unfold and implement a development policy with measurable objectives for the organisation of tourist activities by region and in cooperation with local bodies. On the occasion of this question, let me focus on the issue of supporting overall tourist activity in Carditsa, which is at a critical turning point because of the crisis. I believe that the cooperation and dialogue of the Ministry of Tourism with local bodies, with the municipalities, chambers, tourist professionals, the Development Karditsa, which is doing a great deal of work, the counter-region, can produce substantial results for the benefit of the region and its inhabitants, by creating new jobs, good and sustainable businesses, which will produce high levels of tourism services throughout the year. I want to thank you in advance, in the hope that you will be close to us so that our county will be a distinctive pole of tourist development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u14	That's very gracious, Mrs. Katsavria. But I have told you - advice from an old politician - that we never thank the ministers for what they have to do as ministers. I'm saying that over time. I'm not talking about Mrs. Kundura. They have an obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u15	When we see ministers...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u16	If we start thanking ministers, we lost the train!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u17	Let's have a good word.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u18	Mrs. Kundura, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, let us say a few words.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u20	I barely said about you and my colleague. It's just, as advice from an old politician. It's about all of us, not you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u21	Good talk gives us joy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u22	We're ladies and we're very noble! Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. As I mentioned before and I will mention once again, tourism is a priority of our Government. In particular, the national regional tourism policy, which we planned and implemented since 2015, aims to make Greece an attractive destination of three hundred sixty-five days a year. It was our strategic axis to develop thematic forms of tourism, because precisely - and quite rightly so - through thematic forms of tourism we can support new Greek destinations that are not so popular, we can prolong the summer season, a very great issue that we have achieved in 2016 and 2017. I do not hide from you that our satisfaction is too great, because we have a constant record of all the sizes of tourism in arrivals and revenues. Tourism is the driving force, which really holds and supports our country's economy. The reason why we are interested in this strategy to support thematic tourism is not only the escalation of the summer season, the three hundred five days a year, or only the new destinations that we are promoting, but also to create precisely jobs and to enable the economic benefits to be crossed balancedly throughout Greece, opening up new markets such as India, China, strengthening America, Canada, Russia, but also to create all these conditions so that they can come, make investments. Health tourism is therefore an area where excellent investment can be made. Organised development and promotion of health tourism is a very important priority for us, including medical and health tourism and, as I said, creates new sources of revenue and employment and strengthens national and local society and supports local communities. The ultimate NSRF for the tourism sector at the Ministry of Tourism has promoted and implemented all those necessary actions to submit proposals for funding, focusing on highlighting and tourist use of natural health resources. In particular, through the EMASEC, we have specified the action to develop and promote recognised thermal sources, the jurisdiction of OTA Is, as you quite rightly said, with a total budget of 25 million euros, in order to encourage modernisation, the expansion of the facilities of the thermal sources, the upgrading of the services provided, as well as the development of activities for non-paid source visitors. In addition, this programme creates preconditions for basic infrastructure and benefits so that they can also be used by individuals at a later stage. We have drawn up a study and an action plan for the development of health and well-being tourism, which, of course, includes the institutional framework, the geographical distribution of thermal natural resources and related health and well-being infrastructures, the detailed recording of thermal natural resources with comparative advantages, their development and visibility strategies, the findings for the integrated development of areas of natural health resources, as well as proposals for State aid for investments in health and well-being tourism. We have also worked with all the relevant ministries, and we have also set up a working group to define the water distribution standards, the thermal resource and the overall framework through which the distribution, exploitation and exploitation of thermal sources will be carried out, so as to facilitate investment. Finally, I would like to point out that in the context of my visit to Thessaly in October 2017, which included meetings with tourist and development actors in Kalambaka, Meteora, Trikala, Carditsa, Larissa and Volos, we held a wide meeting at the Karditsa Chamber on all the issues of the region's tourism development. Everyone was very pleased. All representatives, regions, Chamber, Municipality of Karditsa, Mousakio, Sofadon, Plastira, Argithea, institutions and associations of the region participated. We have discussed cooperation with all the actors and coordination of these actions to be carried out in order to implement a specialised strategy for the development of health tourism, as well as for the development in general of the region there. I think what we have achieved - and it is very important to say - is that we are all united and since we can work together, we have the opportunity for all the regions that are interested in highlighting their comparative advantages in order to become a balanced tourist development throughout Greece. Thessaly is a region that can have three hundred and sixty-five days a year in tourism, have religious tourism, have marine tourism, have cultural tourism, have alternative countryside tourism, medical, thermal. It has all those standards so that it can actually have a great deal of growth in the coming years. The dynamics are there, and we do everything we can to project it, but to support, if you like, all these synergies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u23	The only happy ones, as you understood, were Mrs Katsavria and the Minister, in the absence of any other questions to be debated. Mrs Katsavria, Minister, and Mr Mitaraki, thank you for your support, the topical and urgent debate has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-05-S1-commons.u24	With the consent of the House at 18.36 minutes, the sitting for the next Thursday, February 8, 2018, at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work is closed: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
