ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 25-1-2018, Parliament's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, on Thursday, 25 January 2018, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Businesses of financial instruments and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Monday 29 January 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 878/23-1-2018 of the Athens Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Xydakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Illegalities in the exploitation of beaches in Mykonos and the rest of Greece". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 885/23-1-2018 by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Suspension of operation of the Transport Supply Training Centre as a Youth Training Centre". 3. PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Taking measures in favour of the small savers, who lost their money with the debt cut in 2012.” 4. The Question No 913/23-1-2018 by MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Dellis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Removal of ratings, divisions and sectors of the ESDP". 5. Under number 872/22-1-2018, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Who is the exact balance of the bank account of Law 128/1975?". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 879/23-1-2018 by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gregorios Stojannidis to the Minister of Finance, on "Following the licensed number of jobs in casinos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 886/23-1-2018 by Mr Athanasiou Bourras to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "Special arrangement for the affected students of Mandra High School". 3. The 880/23-1-2018 topical question by MP Dodecanese of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Gakis to the Minister of Health, on "Measures for the dental treatment of disabled children in the island." 4. The Question No 849/16-1-2018 by MP Arta of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Stylios to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Illustration picture presents the General Hospital of Artas”. 5. The 851/16-1-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the problems of personnel shortages, building infrastructure and equipment at the Hospital of Agios Nikolaos Lassithi. 6. The question asked by MP I Thessaloniki by the Radical Left Coalition Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Health, entitled "Pediatric Hospital in Western Thessaloniki". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Evangelos Karakostas (Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs) asked the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Full the decline of universities." 8. The Question No 708/2-1-2018 by the Member of Parliament of the Republic of New Democracy Mr Georgiou Vlachos to the Minister of Health on the application of claw back to appropriate health providers and contractors and non-manufacturers, importers, distributors/suppliers of medical devices. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The establishment of an Environmental Education Centre (CIC) in Antonis Tritsis Park". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Health, entitled ‘Recommendation of an EKAV station in Naples Boeia of the Municipality of Monemvasia’. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the fourth under the number 914/23-1-2018 topical question of the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party, Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Have hydrocarbons in Aliakmon's water supplying the Water Processing facility of the city of Thessaloniki". The Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr Famelos. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are assessing the issue we are addressing with our topical question as extremely serious. It is about the drinking water of Thessaloniki and its quality. Since January 10th, then, hydrocarbons have been detected in the water, which comes from Aliakmon and is being shipped to the water treatment facility of Thessaloniki before it was brought to domestic consumption. According to what the Private Workers' Consortium, which operates this water treatment facility, i.e. the water refinery, which reaches Thessaloniki from Aliakmon, a critical link in the water supply process of the city, surface substances and spreading spots of oil, written, oil in the D2 tank located at the entrance of the refinery and related to the surface water, reached by a canal from Aliakmon. In addition, they noted that this ocular pollution was also passed in the precipitation tanks and to a lesser extent on the surface of the sand beds. The seriousness of the situation and the extent of the pollution is the fact that floating dams have been placed along the canal, which brings the water of Aliakmon to the water treatment plant, for the maximum possible containment of the hydrocarbons, which have been detected, while we know that in collaboration with PPC S.A. There has also been a significant renewal of the waters of the St Barbara dam, where this canal begins. The questions, Mr Minister, are crucial and we say them: What urgent actions will the government take to deal with this serious pollution in order to identify the source of pollution and, of course, to ensure the safe operation of the Thessaloniki water network? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u3	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Delis, I would like to thank you for your question, because I, too, believe that the government is very critical, as you mentioned in quotes. You are giving me the opportunity to present the initiatives that we have taken on this issue. I have also taken the initiative personally, since it is the area where we live and the area from which we both come. On 10-1-2018 there was indeed a trace of oil spots on the surface of the D2 tank of surface water Aliakmon, as water enters from the Sindos pump and comes from the Aliakmon Canal. For this reason, and because we have nothing to hide the next day in the morning, the Chief Prototype Attorney and the Department of Health and the Environment and the Directorate-General for Police and the Region of Central Macedonia and the Ministry of the Fields of Thessaloniki - Lagada were informed. The prosecutor's mandate created a mixed set of steps from that day, from Thursday January 11th, and officials of all these services came out in the field and proceeded with NSAID officials from the Sindos pumping station, up to the Aliakmon dam, that is, above the tank of Barbara, to identify the origin and make sampling checks at the hubs. I would like to give you some explicit answers. Pollution has been dealt with in the water treatment process. There was - I confirm - and he was treated. Like you said, even though it was found in the entry tank, there were elements of pollution inside the plant, for example, before descents, which you mentioned. But, after the sand filters - because you mentioned the surface of the sand filters - there are also activated carbon filters and the administration of the NSA has chosen to double the time to stay in the filters, reducing the supply of entry and using an additional source of water supply for Thessaloniki from the Arabissos sources, because we have security provision in Thessaloniki. So we optimised the operation of the facility and did not come out - let's say so - it did not leave the sewage treatment plant or water containing pollutants for the city of Thessaloniki. At the same time, in consultation with PPC, we evacuated part of the water tanks in Varvara, as you described and cleaned up the canal and placed floating dams and other absorbents, which are prevention technologies, because the technology of processing ensures us the quality of the water, but yet we want to prevent the phenomenon so that there is no problem. I personally on Saturday, immediately after the phenomenon, on 13 January, went to the refinery and supervised double shifts in the laboratories and in the OHIM and the co-operating private companies, so that we could identify the source of the pollution specicly. There we have seen that these are high molecular weight hydrocarbons, which have indeed origins of lubricants, as was also published, we have not hidden it. We have doubled the workshops and the processing, even for the weekend, to ensure that nothing comes out of the city, which has been done by quality output analyses. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Allow me, Mr President, because this is a crucial issue and it is a matter of health. In order for there to be no problem, obviously with the information of the Secretary-General of Public Health, I called, at a teleconferencing conference, for the President of PPC, the environmental inspector and the chairman of the PPC, and we agreed on the creation of a special scale, intervening within the facilities and the Canal and the dams, so that we could have the maximum possible performance of control and safety. At the same time, we agreed on the mixed workshops that we have with the regions and central Macedonia and Western Macedonia, to check by the prosecutor for all regional uses, so that there is no new problem in the future, since at the moment the measurements have been reduced very much both at the entrance and are far below the thresholds even on guard. There's no exit problem. Non-detectable measurements at the output of processing in the last few days are undetectable. And I've had reliable measurements from two labs now assigned by NSATH to Thessaloniki and Athens, so that we can be safe and there's no problem. [[At this point the closing bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing again and again.]] I repeat for a part of your question that the competent public prosecutor is responsible for announcing the results of the investigation. But I will tell you in my second answer what else we are doing, so that there are no such problems, because I have had time for my prototype. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. Please, Mr Delis, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u6	Minister, we are not questioning the actions of the government, which the truth is that it reacted immediately. We would very much like to accept your reassuring assurances about the quality of the water in Thessaloniki. We do not have information on the size of the pollution, which you say was not too large. We have no evidence to question that. However, pollution has been. It's a fact. And the most crucial question, Minister, has not been answered so far. The most critical question is: What is the cause, what is the source of pollution in Aliakmon's water? Do you know that? Did you find it? Everything shows PPC, but do we know specifically where this pollution is coming from? Because if this question is not answered, if the source of pollution is not found - and if it is not then how to deal with it - you understand that until then no one can guarantee that such pollution and greater pollution will not be repeated, with what this means, for the water in Thessaloniki. However, there are also some serious questions on other issues. Let's say, to what level of pollution can the water refinery be withheld from Aliakmon? What is the limit of pollution on which it can respond? If it is necessary to stop supplying Aliakmon, what are there possibilities for the city to be watered exclusively by the sources of Arabic? And if not, then are there alternative sources of water supply? Furthermore, how security can an open and exposed can be provided by the water in the city? To ask a rhetorical question, political in nature. What kind of public nature is there, anyway, with contractors - the IHS talk about, the water of Thessaloniki - in the water refinery and the break-up of the IHS in the "Immediate Company" and the "Icely Ages" legal person in public law? We believe that the completion of the full privatisation by SYRIZA, the water of Thessaloniki and Athens is already under way. This company, like HSYP, is at the supreme for the next 100 years, and the aspiring big shareholders rub their hands for the gains they omit. We would like here to say, however, that as long as water enters the logic of the market and profit, the harder it will be to ensure its quality and its quantity, the more problems will be with the network and its maintenance, the more cost will be passed on to the people and the situation will also worsen for the water workers. Water, indeed social good, with what this means in practice only ensures that the JRC's position for a single state water management body, which will plan, implement, monitor its management, of course, on the whole social needs. But there is a radically different development site and the people, of course, really have power in their hands and not in their hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u7	Please, Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u8	Mr Delis, you have raised very interesting issues, which will probably have to be a special plenary sitting, and I will ask you to do so, because the water of Thessaloniki is indeed a social good and a public good and valuable quality of life and the health of citizens. That is why I have to tell you that we, on our part, immediately proceeded with the government's assumption to the planning of recruitment by the NGAA, which is in the air, because there were indeed many contractors who were hostage. If you wish, we can bring this information to a debate, even though it was not in the text of the question, so that I can present it to you. But I know that this tendering procedure has been opened at the moment, and obviously, based on the programming of the EESC recruitment, but also on the overcoming of the rule of recruitment restriction, we will proceed to the full staffing of the EESC so that there is no problem. With regard to the big issue of publicity, I must tell you that recently in the multi-brand plan, 51% of HNDTP was separated from the HNDTP and now passed to the Ultrasurf, so that the possibility or the possibility of privatization or sale is not called into question. Our government has stated explicitly and vertically that 51% is a public social asset, will not be privatised, will remain with constitutional provision in the ownership of the public and in the control of the citizens and the city. That is what I think it is that we wanted in Thessaloniki for years, which is why we did the referendum, which is why we claimed public character in the EYCD. I think that we can find common roads in this and also discuss, if you like, for the remaining 23% in the TSE, what the potential for participation by both self-government and research bodies and private sector is to see if the city needs and how it needs the best result from this process. However, since the subject of the debate and the content were different, I would like to say that the risk of an open canal incubator does not exist. In international and global literature, the vast majority of large town complexes are fed by open cross-sections, mainly rivers and cannot be controlled from their source to the point where towns are fed. That is why we are over-dividing and have a safety factor for refineries. The Refinery of Thessaloniki has this safety factor and it has been demonstrated, although there was incoming hydrocarbons pollution, the result of precipitation, sand, crocodile and then activated coal, has enabled us to overtreat the pollutant and have no problem. But I would like to mention three symbolic issues, Mr President, because this debate is very important and essential. I repeat that we can do it again on a wider scale, because time now does not allow us to do so. We have completed on 29 December the plans for the management of river basins for the whole country with six years' delay. And that was a factor of lesser resources of about 4 billion from the European Union. Therefore, the country now has up-to-date water planning as a whole. In this design - I say this because you are interested in - the implementation of water safety plans, namely supplementary water supply, not only for Thessaloniki, for all towns and large towns. And this is a holistic approach that thankfully Thessaloniki, because of Arabism, has this solution, first of all. However, a water safety plan should also be drawn up for Thessaloniki. We already have specifications from the Special Secretariat for Waters and we are already in contact with the President of the EEAS to draw up such an institutional plan, although I have told you in practical terms that the Arabs have already fed the city. Finally, to reflect the quality of drinking water we are interested in, to say that there is an environmental performance index and that is foreseen by the United Nations and sustainable development policy, so that we measure environmental performance and not just say air words that water is clean, even though there are obviously analyses. Let me tell you, then, that this environmental performance index ranks a hundred and eighty countries, in twenty-four performance indicators, for categories relating to the environmental health and sustainability of ecosystems. And these measurements have national indicators. And they are, if you want, measurable by international academic institutions and global environmental bodies, to give environmental performance, but also best practices. I close, Mr President, by saying that the environmental performance index is produced together with Yale University, Columbia University, in collaboration with the global economic forum. And I think I can say that according to this particular index, Greece is the first in the quality of drinking water in eighty countries. I think this gives one, if you want, safe and scientifically sound proof that we are doing our best for both the public character and the social character of the water, but also for the quality of drinking water, even in difficult cases, such as the one in Thessaloniki. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, too. Today, five questions are being discussed and no more five questions will be discussed. The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou, informs us that the following topical questions will not be discussed: The third, with number 874/22-1-2018, a top-stage question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseyas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Financing from PPC S.A. the work of improving the road of Pournaria - Kyriou Bridge - Mygdalia, worth 500,000 euros, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Stathakis, because of a workload. The fourth under number 801/11-1-2018 topical question of the second question of the MP of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARMAR M.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Repayment of producers - Plan for the reconstruction of the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ)" will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. The fifth question, under number 758/8-1-2018, is the second question of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Integration of sewerage networks and sewerage treatment of Kontovassina, Levidi and Callianios Arcadias", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr. The third, with number 852/16-1-2018, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Georgios Vlachos, to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the subject: 'Elefthening of the coastline front to the citizens of the city', will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis, for he will represent the government in Agios. The second, under number 883/23-1-2018, top-stage question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary, Mr. Miltiades Varvitsiotis, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "Incomprehensible the decongestion of the islands of the Eastern Aegean", will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister for Migration Policy, Mr. Musala. I would ask my fellow Members to be consistent with time, because then the question is followed by the debate. Now we will discuss the first question under number 877/23-1-2018 in the first cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Marios Katsis to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on "Selecting a Strategic investor for the company "FORTHNET" - a risk of restriction and distortion of competition". Mr. Katsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, today's parliamentary control procedure and the issue that we shall be developing in today's topical question is, in my opinion, extremely critical and serious. It is possible that our Government and you, too, have tried and finally managed, through many obstacles to regulate the broadcasting landscape, but there is another market, the telecommunications market, which, in my opinion, needs your attention. I am referring specifically to the emergence of a strategic investor for the company 'FORTHNET'. The process of raising this investor seems to have come to the final straight. As we all know, FORTHNET is one of the largest players in the wider telecommunications market, which in recent years has presented a continuous contraction and concentration. So we all understand that the choice of a strategic investor will affect and affect the whole telecommunications product, produced for citizens, telephony, internet, digital television. In recent reports we have seen in a press conference - and we do not know whether or not they are correct - unfair practices are being denounced. However, the acquisition of FORTHNET by its domestic competitors will, in my opinion, create oligopolistic situations on the market. This means that the infamous liberalisation of the telecommunications market will be a figure of speech, as we are talking about an over-concentration of companies. The country will therefore be at risk of being left with two ‘kitchen’ providers, from where it had five, which means that the Greek citizen does not have much to expect from competition between companies, in terms of lowering prices and improving services. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, I would also like you to count - and it is no exaggeration to mention this - that our country has the slowest, at the same time the most expensive internet in the European Union. This is an extremely negatively shaped situation experienced by Greek citizens, when they have disproportionately lifted burdens, i.e. they pay very expensive internet and telephony compared to the average European. In fact, the speeds the citizen pays are over the last decade. So we need to be very concerned about the effectiveness of the competent regulatory authority and its functioning over the past period, because from the result it has not benefited consumers as much as it would have expected, nor would competition. So, Minister, you have the institutional and, through your role, you ask: How will you ensure that the choice of a strategic investor for the company is based on fair rules? How will the market be protected against practices that restrict or distort competition? And how will this also be reflected in the interests of consumers?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Katsey. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I think the question raises an issue, which is burning, because all Greeks have an account of telecommunications services, whether mobile telephones or the Internet. I think we are all witnessing phenomena where, unfortunately, speeds are advertised online, which are not real, and 24 Mbps packages, which mean practical speeds of 6, 7, 4 times, so that it is not possible for the consumer to enjoy services such as online TV, 'on-demand' television. Our target, Mr. Katsey, is fair digital development. In other words, we should be able to make such contributions so that all Greek citizens have access to this type of technology. I will come back to see if what we do is enough. So let's see what we're ahead of. First of all, we want to take advantage of all the resources available to all citizens and, above all, to make use of the resources for technologies that they have to withstand in the future. This is where a big deal comes in. It raises the question of the attitude and priorities of the regulator. Unfortunately, Greece is a market in monopolistic, oligopolistic, and I would say that in practice, in telecommunications, and if you follow the course of the telecommunications market since it opened up, that is, the opening up of the market and the subsequent sale of OTE, it is a process of rapid market concentration. This, unfortunately, also has an impact on the quality of services, but also on prices. I would therefore say to you that we will have to - and we will have to wait and wait - for the new Committee on Telecommunications and Posts to go over these issues very quickly, very promptly and in a way that safeguards the interests of consumers. The complaints to which you refer have been brought to us and as far as I know they have been notified to the committee. The committee, of course, will also have to look into them and see what is happening there. I would agree with you that it will be painful for the Greek consumer to find ourselves in a situation where we will have less than two telecommunications providers. If one sees - and I finish and I am going to refer to my dentistry - the relevant indicators, Greece is the market with the most concentration in the telecommunications network and the country with zero connectivity, which concerns connections of 100 Mbps or more. The 100 Mbps and above may be heard at the moment by a very large number, but it is the cub that the European Commission itself has set for the 2025 connectivity objectives. In other words, in 2025 Greece must have, like all other countries, at least 50% of the households with this connectivity. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] You realise that with this reality there will be very great difficulties in getting the target. We will do what we need to do, namely dedicate all national and European resources to technologies that are compatible with the objectives of the European Union, but from there on I think there is a very crucial role of the Committee on Telecommunications and Post, which must be precisely such as to ensure the interests of consumers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Mr Katsis has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is extremely crucial. I really want to ask for your attention on this matter. We should think that the telecommunications market is some billion. In fact, Greek consumers did a very little research in my Law, in Thesprotia, in various municipalities and in various regions and did not find a citizen who pays and has made the corresponding speed. It locks internet speed at much lower speed. This, as everyone understands, is extremely unfair to the consumer, and much more so when we see that convergence at European level in digital technology issues in new generation networks and investments have been reflected in European citizens, but in our country no. Secondly, the domestic telecommunications market, while having had several providers, as I mentioned in my prototype, is a very terrible decline and accumulation and concentration and I think that if this practice continues, this methodology, nothing will be expected by the citizens at the above and at the speeds of the services and prices provided. So I will ask you and I will insist. Are you satisfied as Minister by what you received from the performance of the regulatory authority of the Telecommunications and Post Commission? Because, although it is an independent authority, it does not mean that it should not be subject to a criticism of whether it has actually fulfilled its objective and role. In my opinion, the answer is quite clear. We should not be satisfied with the functioning of the committee. I do not think there is any political point in this. Because a member of the committee and a Vice-President of the committee was a member of the New Democracy. It shows, of course, the way in which the Qualified Opposition is perceived by the independent authorities. And they have also taken the lead in members of the Regulator's and Officer's Regulator's Regulator's critical strategic choices, both in terms of the competition for DIGEA, as well as in terms of the frequency map and so on. So I really want to ensure - and I ask the Ministry and you to have our eyes openly - that we have effective regulatory control by the National Committee on Telecommunications and Posts for the benefit of the consumer rather than the oligopolistic situations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because it is this market that is perceived in everyday life when it has such a great deal of Internet penetration in all the villages and in all citizens and it is such a necessary tool. And we can see that the telephony is now taking place in VoIP and is not done in the traditional way. So we understand that penetration in the years to come will be so important to all citizens and people must enjoy these self-evident issues at a very cheap price. So, Minister, the process of selecting and promoting a strategic investor for FORTHNET must, in my opinion, be controlled by the committee, and the presence of the Ministry and your own personally must be such as to ensure that the committee is careful and regulate, according to the law and on the basis of its role, the best possible for Greek citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u15	For three minutes, the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr. Nikolaos Pappas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I think that the reality answers the question you have raised. It is clear that the composition of the previous committee was unable to ensure the conditions of competition that could offer the Greek citizen a product that was cheap and reliable. Unfortunately, we have the slowest and most expensive internet in Europe. Here it needs vigilance - and I would say - from the state, the government, Parliament with parliamentary control, the regulator and the citizens. There's a possibility. People who consume online services have shown that they can both mobilise and network when there are issues that concern them. And I think that if it is prioritised both at the level of policy planning and at the level of regulatory authority, but there is a similar mobilisation of citizens, the results can be very soon. We have a tendency once - you know - to blame the companies. Companies are speculative organisations and are looking into the regulatory and legal framework that is there to make their profits and maximize them. The question is whether the legal and regulatory framework is such as to ensure social good, the overall good. The company cannot guarantee it. It is the state that has to ensure, through its interventions, that the interests of companies are served within the general social interest. And the general social interest in this case, Mr Katsis, is to have all Greek citizens fast and reliable internet. The general and social good in this historic phase is to go to the next technologies. We can't stay far behind. It is not necessary that the private sector should be saddened with the present situation. The private sector's success measure is how it works. The private company will count what he's earned from there and he'll move. There were too many issues with the previous committee. There were public complaints that they were delaying the adoption of specific products by companies, but also delays in decision-making in relation to very specific fines. But in any case, I think we have entered a phase in which the new composition - I hope and believe - will respond to this debt. I will give you one final example, and that is what I will close. The country was awarded for the development of the “Rural” programme, which has gone in its first phase to about four thousand settlements and we will also have the extension of this program. If there is no role of the regulator so that telecommunications products can reach the citizen at an advantageous price, we will have done nothing. We'll just have a hole in the asphalt, we'll just have stretched the wires and we'll say, "Okay, we have networks modern." [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] If it is not at a price that can meet the possibilities of the Greek citizen and how much more than that of the inhabitants of the countryside - we have regions with 60% per capita GDP or 70% of the total - I fear that we will not even achieve the objectives of the European Union and, above all, we will be constantly left behind in the objective of fair digital development. And this sector, unfortunately, will also be a source of new inequalities, rather than being exactly the vehicle of a new social convergence that the country needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware to this House that MP II of Athens Mr Theocharis Theocharis Theocharis is requesting permission from 29 January to 31 January 2018 in order to be present in Brussels at a meeting of Mercator "The Energy Security Nexus". Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u18	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We move on to the first question under No 884/23-1-2018 of the second-round question of the Athens Parliament, Mr Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the electronic procedure for the adoption and movement of administrative acts and documents throughout the ministries. Here, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are here on the occasion of the fact that at the Ministerial Council the Prime Minister, when he cut the royalty, announced that any minister who found the flute, would gain priority in the digitisation of his ministry. And this in itself highlights the incredible sloppyness with which you understand the strategic planning, which has been entrusted to you as a newly established ministry, but also the implementation of the actions that you have undertaken in the context of drawing up the national strategy. I have called on you many times for delays, for ambiguities, for lack of strategy, for lack of planning, for incompetence in the implementation of actions. I would like to give you an opportunity today to tell us if there is indeed a strategy for the digitisation of the Greek State, which is not "whoever finds the flute, we go first to his Ministry". I say this for the following reason: In November 2016 with v. 4440 have been appointed on 1 July 2017 as the date of the entry into force of the provisions on the electronic movement of documents in the public sector. Following this, in June 2017 by Joint Ministerial Decision, yours and Mrs Gerovas, you extended the beginning at the beginning of this year. At the end of 2017, you again extended that date at the end of December 2018. Now, the only plan we hear is that "whoever won the flu, we'll go first to his ministry." Meanwhile, I would remind you that according to ELSTAT's survey, apart from this oligopoly, there is also a reduction in the usage rate of e-government services. In particular: According to this survey on e-government, for the first time after seven years, namely for 2016 to 2017, there is a decrease in the rates of use of information and communication technologies by citizens in their transactions with the public, unlike in previous years - I am talking about the period from 2010 to 2016 - where a gradual increase in the above percentages occurred each year, with a typical example in the period 2013-2014 where there was an increase of 10%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So you have managed to prolong the digitisation of the public three times - now we are waiting for the end of the year - and you have managed to make less and less use of these digital services. Is there anything else but who's gonna win the king's fleece? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u20	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Asmakopoulou, it is well the social media that also enables parliamentary control to be exercised. But we would prefer parliamentary control to be exercised through the monitoring of the government's work, which I think you have an obligation to do. If you were to follow it, and you had entered the 'DENMARK', you would have seen how much and what projects they have matured and started and have joined the Public Investment Programme and you will judge - and then I would like to discuss this again - whether or not they are going ahead with projects, whether or not they are compatible and whether or not the national digital policy is being implemented and completed. The statistics you have invoked - I think I have the research here and I will present it in the Minutes - are talking about small increases in the penetration of new technologies in recent years, which of course does not satisfy us and which is why we also have increased vigilance in relation to the implementation of digital projects. I do not want to specifically refer to the percentages, but we are talking about increases, about the sizes you have spoken about, 1% to 2% depending on the index you mentioned. [[At this point, Minister Nikolaos Papapas presents for the minutes the above-mentioned survey, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] First of all, I would like to tell you about the Ministry of Digital Policy that the electronic registration system is fully developed. At the moment, that is, in the Ministry of Digital Policy, documents are moved electronically, handled electronically, signed electronically, and the six hundred employees of our Ministry have a remote digital signature. Yesterday morning, starting on my day, I signed five, six, seven documents, electronically, with all the servants from the bottom signing digitals and my computer went right to the employee who had to handle it. Now, at the moment, we are at the point where the notice on the electronic handling of documents for the entire public sector has just come out, which will be built on the standards of this work. If you had done your research, you would have seen that the project has already joined the Public Investment Program since 24 this month, that is, very few days ago - I will submit the relevant document - and even joined with another very critical project that has something to do with digital agriculture. [[At this point, the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr Nikolaos Pappas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I think this is the first time that this will happen, and I would even say that it will happen in a way which is effective in the interests of the public. What does that mean? It means that it will be a project that ensures interoperability and a project, which, according to the only study, has been done and done by IOBE, will ensure in the public EUR 400 million. Now, you said about the flush. We'll see from which Ministry we'll start, but I assure you that the project is already part of the Public Investment Programme. It has matured too much and we are a few days before the relevant notice is issued. We have worked with Olga Gerovalis very systematically, and I would like to thank her and this for the step forward in cooperation both at the level of officials and at the level of political leadership. I think that we will be absolutely in the target, have digital, electronic document handling by the end of the year. It is a revolutionary change that you and we will have the opportunity to see - as took place in the Ministry of Digital Policy - all the public bodies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u22	Thank you. Mrs Asimakopoulou, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u23	Minister, you put the end date at the end of 2018, after you extended it twice and now you tell me that early January you have just joined a project. If that's what pleases you, if that's where the bar is, all right. But neither your inability nor your frustration on the issues of your Ministry is hidden. I think that your previous question was an outraged debate with a Member of your Parliament where, if I understand it correctly, you blame the independent authority because it does not cover your inability and frugalness. It is preparing - and you know it very well - for a huge failure to come to your surface, which would not be of interest to you personally if it were a failure, but I am interested in why it has serious implications for the country. You're telling us you're cutting off for the fast Internet people will get and the cost, etc. You can, if you want, deny or confirm the information in your dentext that the project, which you submitted for the allocation of the NRP 400 million funds, was rejected by the competent European Commission services, in the form of a demand subsidy for high-speed connection to the Internet of households and businesses. You know what projects I'm talking about, Minister. We've had this conversation before. They were projects registered, launched with a specific methodology that, from the idea of your predecessor and your own decision, you have decided to respond, to redesign in a way which has been contrary to the rules of the European Commission on competition, because they are considered state aid. Now what? Superfast Broadband and CE, Connected Enterprises, which were supposed to give 300 million and 100 million respectively a subsidy for fast internet in white areas, which for you reflect fair digital development. Isn't that right? So this work was redesigned and has just been rejected. What does that mean? We have asked you a lot of questions about the delay and frustration in the integration of the programmes. One of these is the digitisation of the public, which - I repeat - after two extensions, which you have given yourself, has just managed to integrate. You know, your inability is costly, Minister, and the cost is paid by the citizens, to whom the Internet does not go, not only in white areas, in all areas. Business pays, we're all paying for it. It is not enough to cut royalty, it is not enough to design things, which are not realistic, it is not enough to incorporate works. What matters to the world is the result. And if you, as a Ministry, cannot bring about results, then take responsibility and not blame and punish exemplary people to the independent authorities, who simply take you against them and tell their scientific opinion publicly, documented and the opposition that their institutional role is to control you. Apologise, Minister, for your failures and assume your political responsibilities. That's what you have to do. That's right, and that's honest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u24	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u25	I am impressed by the courage and pretension, I confess, but I really don't understand where it comes from. You had it all abandoned on the automatic, literally, TV, from the country's radio strategy, from the country's connectivity strategy. And you come here and tell us what exactly? What are you coming to tell us? You're saying we've incorporated a project? Who informs you, Mrs. Asmakopoulou? Do you know what I'm talking about? Do you have a man to go to "GENERAL" and see what's part of it and what's not part of it? I shall therefore table the list of projects here. It is nineteen projects since last August that have joined another seven which are for accession. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, Minister Nikolaos Papapas presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] You should therefore look into the Minutes to find out how many projects have been integrated and to explain to us why in your own governance we were in danger of losing all European money. And you're telling us about the Superfast Broadband here. Of course, this work will be planned in agreement with the European Commission. I don't know what the problem is. What did we say? That we're going to override the rules? Where and where? But really, I'm impressed by what's going on. In other words, this is also a downgrading of the level of dialogue and parliamentary control. Instead of having done your research, see what projects we've been all right, when they joined and what is their degree of maturity, you come and get from social media a phrase that we posted and say here that we will do everything in luck. We're not gonna do it in luck. For your own bad luck, it is the first time that the country has been designed at this level and incorporates projects. Of course, it does not integrate them with the previous method, which exactly brought the country to the edge of the digital cliff. What was the previous method and has been recorded by the services of the European Commission which you invoke? The previous method was that their worksheets and bulletins were not ready for service. Someone else was getting ready for the packages. And the country, in general, did works without any planning, so we are on the edge of the cliff and risk losing all European money. I would like to ask you to take a look at the list I have just submitted and next week to discuss in Parliament's scrutiny what the digital policy projects we are implementing are.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u26	We continue with the second with No 918/23-1-2018 topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on 'Is 30% of State Advertising in the region'? Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u27	Minister, this is a well-known matter. I hope that you will give some new evidence, some answers, some solutions and not repeat such a debate, because in recent years, with the previous governments and the previous ministers, we have had no results. I am saying this because I have now heard Mr Mitsotakis' disappearance, and I have sincerely wondered. Because I remember that Antony Samara's previous government with Venizelo said the Wi-Fi shepherds would have. Do you remember that terrible announcement? But you are not bored - it says - we are now very boring about a task, parliamentary control. I see Mr. Papadimitriou next to you. Well, well done, Mr. Papadimitriou. Two hundred times I invited you to the House to tell you about the Independent Competition Authority, where my colleague's husband is Vice-President. What if this government voted that you can't be in an independent authority and be here in the middle of things? And the close associate of Mitsotakis, again with Kyatsakis. Mylonakis is called if I'm not mistaken. What were they doing there? They did orgasms of orgasms! And so Parliament comes and says 'Lords, what are you doing with the independent authorities?' It seems - Mr Katsis left - that the Pope had it set up and with DIMMOCRATIA today - it is a right-wing newspaper - which says about the previous question that Mrs Michelle asked. Michelle, isn't she her name? That's how the king baptized her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Nicolopoulos, please don't make personal reports, because he's coming to protest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u29	I'm saying I'm wrong because I don't hear it like Greek. It says here they are being slaughtered and want to exclude some companies to become a monopoly. That is not what the independent authority is listening to. Minister, look, today is another dorm. Today ADA says of a doctor who was caught taxing, he was caught at 100,000 euros at the same time as a canalarch, who had come to the committee of inquiry, 77 million were charged for taxes he has not paid and still has not paid. Or we have canals selling the company they had on the Stock Exchange, buy it for free, eat the shareholders' money to support the channel or get money from the insurance company they own for their channels. And we have here the regional media, which have no such potential, nor can they extend their hands away from doing other jobs, no complications or other games. And what do we have? A law that has nothing to do with it. So I have come before you today because, Minister, I have seen that you have released a circular, in addition to what you may have done in these years, which you say 'Re, children, what are you doing?' Can you tell us what they said? I see Mr. Crecho. I am sure you are well aware of this and I do not want to argue about how unfair it is that 30% is not going to regional media. And at the same time, while we legislated with your own government to become directly, PPC yesterday, something eight hundred that it gave, again gave it through media shop. Yesterday, the newspapers wrote - I asked you about this - that there at the National Assembly, there is no change of government, there is a queen, there they are their own kingdom, there they do their own games, there they think they are their own shop and elsewhere. And why then did Mr Drasakis say 'it will be announced' - and good, and the House voted - 'Where do you give ads'? Why don't you tell the banks to be forced for 30%? What are the banks? What participation does the public have? The recapitalisation of the Greeks? So today, Minister, I wanted you to answer what you have received in response to the last circular. What are you going to do for those who still use media shop and, as you know, do something crumbs? Will you still wishfully stay here? They may call you Poppa, but, I imagine, you're not one of the priests, who only wish!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u30	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u31	First of all, Mr. Nicolopole. We can hear you a little wet. I wish your neck was well soon. I think it is very critical and I want to address you as well as my fellow ministers and people in the public sector who manage the advertising programmes of the relevant public bodies. 70% - 30% for the first time will be implemented. And we have also sent a relevant circular, which I think is the seventh, if I am not mistaken, which precisely underlines this obligation and recalls that there will be the relevant fines. What fines? If a public body has not reached 30%, it will get a fine such as to cover the distance between the percentage attributed to the regional media and 30%. What's the timeline and how will it be? The Circular obliges the public bodies to send the 2017 statement by 31 March and the budget for 2018. From there on, if it is found at the end of March that there are specific public bodies which did not respect 70% - 30%, there will be the relevant fines. However, I would like to say, Mr Nicholas - and in this sense I am pleased that there is also the subject of discussion here and in parliamentary scrutiny - it is a preventive matter. We would like it through the debate and convince her not to have to impose fines, i.e. all public bodies that have this 70% - 30% to implement it, which is very bad indeed. This was passed in the Venizelos Act in 1995, when we had the interim agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and it has not been implemented. Why has it not been implemented? Precisely because there was no ‘implementation mechanism’. I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u33	Minister, if you really think about making legislative intervention, it will be worth it, otherwise I fear that the years will pass and you will not succeed, as others have done. They wanted, I think, other ministers too - and Theodore Rusopoulos wanted - but what is the result? Zero! Don't turn through the engagement, as Mitsotakis turns now with Skopje! Did you hear him? His sister yesterday said that she is against the rallying, as Jerome said, he said "it is not the time". He turns over by the time he's gone. So you, don't turn around anytime now. We'll see. You're now an old Minister. They've rarely been in their chairs for so many years. There was a time when reshapings were getting faster, that's what I mean. So, then, make arrangements, if necessary, to complete the law. There will be no fines? You are also being written by the former regime, by those who catch them, etc. Haven't you heard anything? Don't you know what's going on under the table? You're a priest! Okay, you don't know any of this. Mr. Poppa, only 5% have gone to the regional press. And Mr. Cretchos knows about it. I've said that in our two-time meetings. So we are waiting for you today - and they are waiting for all the media - to tell us what you are going to do, since you know what happens, that they have set up shops, that they play politics too, Mr Pappa. Yes, today, that's what we're doing and you're just apologizing, and the others have the money and they're sharing it and playing whatever they want in the news releases and wherever they want. You don't know them? What are you waiting for? When are you gonna do this? Then what? There's no next. Now, now! I would therefore ask you to note that the banks are not excluded from this obligation. To submit to us the National Marketing Department for 2016-2017 how much money was sent to the regional media for 2018, which public bodies, one to one, campaigned, how much money they sent to the regional media. The answer is, no one, Mr. Crecho. Regional media didn't get advertising. So there is the application of your own law, which says to invoice directly to the one who commissions and does not do what PPC does. Finally, if you are ahead of your time, tell us what happened with the'sites' register and it was really a major development. What was the benefit for them to this day? You will allow me to tell you, for them, none. It is important for public service. Tell us which - and even one - concrete measure has been passed and have even taken over one euro for your day in the province's media? Because it is not a slogan that you hear many times, that on the one hand there is Greece of Athens and on the other there is Greece of the province. Greece of the province, therefore, has no Bombolaians, Constantinomenades, Vardinoyannis, has no such, it has simple lovers of journalism and information, which give a very hard struggle for survival and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u34	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u35	Allow me, Mr Nicolopoulos, to say this: it is not accurate that advertising in the regional media has not gone at all. I invite you to reconsider this and revise this position.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u36	I wish!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u37	You also said about some legislative intervention. If you become more specific, I could answer. But the legislative intervention we have made is precisely that we have put in place for the first time penalties for those who do not respect 70% - 30% and we are right at the moment, where the public bodies are going to bring us where they went and how their advertising expenditure has been distributed and where appropriate the appropriate fines will be paid. I also see two fellow ministers here, so I strike the alarm bell for those who are overseeing and who are in their power to have precisely this care. And our wish is to be done before. You will also allow me to stress the view that this government has done for the regional type which has not been done all the previous period and with the Regional Press Register and the 70% - 30% initiatives and, of course, with the Online Media Register, in which I would like to say that half the companies from which they have been registered are companies located in the province. Currently in the Online Media Register over five hundred businesses and around a thousand websites. Of course, this is the framework within which we ensure that all state regulations are implemented. For example, there has been a government initiative to save the EDPS. The authors' associations use the internet media register to register for the first time in their associations and journalists who work on the internet media, of course in the province. And that's what I think is extremely important. I would like your question to repeat it late in April, so that the accounts by all public bodies have been submitted. Then, really, let's sit down and see if it was applied or not applied...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u38	I hope the fines have been dropped, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u39	But that's exactly why I'm asking you to check on us. It's part of our duties.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u40	Why are the newspapers writing again today, "Support measures for the press," said Minister Pappas, and there again you need to care for the regional press.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u41	There will be the care to support the entire press. A fund will be set up. The details we're working on now. I must tell you that there is a cross-party consensus of the whole democratic political world on the creation of this fund, which will compensate for the above burdens, which have arisen from the regulation that has come to the EDEA. There's been a meeting with the banks. We have had the regulation that obliges them to make all their costs public. We cannot legally oblige them, because they are unfortunately considered...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u42	But you could, when you said you'd be published...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u43	Another post should be made of us...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u44	You're welcome, Mr. Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u45	To be published is a well-informed - and I think that it is an obligation from which our society is gaining. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u46	Me, too. On the occasion, Minister, Mr Pappas, I would like to pass on to you a concern on regional radios, which say that if licenses are issued to large radios, they will have a problem in terms of advertising, not public advertising but private advertising.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u47	For the Minutes, may I speak, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u48	I'm just telling you, but if you want to talk, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u49	Because people hear it, I'd like to sit here so they won't worry. You are giving me the opportunity, Mr President, and I thank you, to say that no one should worry. The possibilities, which the digital radio gives, are multiples of capabilities, which are currently available on the analogous basis. They'll fit around the thousands of three hundred stations all over Greece. At the moment, the operators are too many. It is a thousand stations, which are densely dense and paralyzed 'FM'. But on the digital radio the signal will be too clear and there will be no problems with overlap. We will also have no problems interfering with the Civil Aviation Service. You understand how critical this is for the safety of flights. And of course, per region, to understand the size, they come out around sixty and seventy stations. If I had known, I would have brought the relevant documents from the Telecommunications Committee with me, which shows exactly how many stations are located per region. So you don't have to worry and, above all, you don't need to worry about stations, which have a special social work, produce a program and...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u50	Religious radio stations, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u51	Mr Nicolopoulos, I think that the necessary clarifications have been made publicly. I imagine and I expect that we will also have official contact with the Church of Greece, which has expressed particular concerns. The necessary clarifications will be given and we will proceed further.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u52	Minister, thank you. Here is the question of the cycle of petitions and questions, by MP B' of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "No protection of the first residence of natural persons who are debtors, traders and traders who do not meet the conditions for subjecting to the extrajudicial arrangements of debt". Mr. Carras, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. When the law on the out-of-court settlement mechanism was passed, the conditions for joining those who were entitled and the main condition, as far as natural persons are concerned, were laid down. That is to be traders in the sense of the bankruptcy code. On the way, of course, the evidence showed that a small number of them could be chosen and followed by the extrajudicial settlement mechanism. While others, given that they typically have bankruptcy capacity, are traders, that is, they cannot follow the excessive burden of the well-known Katseli law, which excludes all those who have a trader's status. So the vacuum was automatically set as to what would be the fate of protecting the first residence of these natural persons. I asked the Minister a question first of all in asking for a written answer, Mr President, and in view of the announcement of an informal agreement between the Government and the banks, as it has been announced, there will at least be no risk of the auctioning of dwellings up to an objective value of EUR 30 000, I asked the Minister's views on how to protect those natural persons who have been rejected or who will not have any conditions of joining the extrajudicial regulation, and given that it is family protection. So the Ministry gave me answers that the Katseli Act applies to non-commercials, that there is a legislative framework for the extrajudicial compromise. Unfortunately, however, neither the Special Secretariat for Private Debt gave a convincing answer nor the General Secretariat for Consumers gave its answer so that the questions are at least met. After that, Mr President, I would ask the Minister to answer the two questions I have raised. Those who are rejected by the extrajudicial mechanism have the ability, have the protection of the state, protect their first residence or not? In addition, I have asked for a timetable for action to see how the government intends to deal with this issue, which concerns a large number of our fellow citizens' families who cannot, because of the strict eligibility criteria, be protected. Yes - and I shall end, Mr President - the person subject to the mechanism will be protected, but the first place will always be a national, and the one who is excluded as an ineligible is deprived of the protection of his residence. These questions, therefore, will be raised and I look forward to the government's reply. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u54	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your questions, Mr Carras, are unfortunately based on inaccurate data. Firstly, it is not true that the majority of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs cannot join the extrajudicial mechanism. The criterion of a positive use over the last three years is so relaxed that practically any open business that does not escape fulfils it. The criteria for the existence of due debts at 31-12-2016 and the existence of debts above EUR 20,000 in total ensure that only anyone who really needs the extrajudicial mechanism can apply. Secondly, it is not true that a large number of applications are being rejected. On the basis of the statistics of the Private Debt Management Special Secretariat, which I think you have received in an earlier reply, but I will repeat, in the twenty-four weeks of the extrajudicial mechanism, seventy cases were unsuccessful, seven of which due to the incompleteness of the file, while sixty-sixteen cases are under way the bilateral or multilateral negotiation process and in thirteen cases the process has been successfully completed. These figures may not leave us satisfied, but they certainly are far from being destructive in your invoicing publications, and you should not overlook the fact that there is still a large number of applications, which are in check-in stages from the coordinator or at a quorum stage, the outcome of which we cannot yet anticipate. On your first question, although the introduction of a general incompatibility with the first residence is primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, I tell you clearly and without rotation that the creation of anticipation for such a regulation would strengthen the extrajudicial mechanism, because it would create an incentive for businesses to be subject to the mechanism and thus make a genuine attempt to regulate their debts, and would also give a competitive advantage to strategic misappropriators. However, we are committed as government that the first home is protected by auctions. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. As far as your second question is concerned, we have examined the problems presented in the application of the extrajudicial mechanism and are working on improving it, inter alia, by reducing bureaucracy and by introducing the possibility of completing the application so that it is not rejected for formal reasons. In any case, however, there is no such risk of creating irreversible social and family situations that some media present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Carras, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. I listened carefully to the Minister. The evidence he has mentioned is well known, and I will repeat it. What I want to note in my second language with the beginning is that I didn't make use of publications, I made use of official communications. Therefore, you will allow me to mention the answer I have in my hands from the Special Secretariat of Public Debts. Fourteen thousand four hundred six people started their application. On 3-1-2018 two thousand six hundred sixty-four of them did not pass the eligibility check. That is, already from the first clearing of 20% has been rejected preamble. What results does this have, without us being able to predict what percentage it will eventually join or not join? From the evidence presented to me by the Special Secretariat of Public Debts, so far only eleven regulation agreements from the fourteen thousand fourteen hundred and six have been dealt with positively. So the problem remains. And it's not the data I report from sites. It's a public document official. So why is my question still being kept active? What about those who will be rejected? And they will not be rejected for formal reasons, but they will be rejected because they do not have the criteria for sustainability, which means that anyone who does not have the sustainability criteria, the natural person or the entrepreneur, is led to an enforcement process, and given that he is his personal property, the first residence, if he is unique, we understand that he will be deprived of the first residence from the application of the extrajudicial mechanism. For them, therefore, I appealed to the government, and for them, I put my questions, because the government lets things leak. In fact, they also spoke with ministers, saying that there is also an informal agreement until the objective value of EUR 300,000 is protected, without any distinction being made as to whether it is a commercial debtor or not. All this has been spread over recent years and has created the expectation. Therefore, Minister, I do not accept what you mentioned as regards me, that I have attempted to create by asking the question the expectation of strategic malpractices. That wasn't my intention. But even from reading the text of my question, I do not have such a disposition, nor do I have any positions. On the contrary, I expressed an agony to protect these people. To conclude, therefore, I remain a legislative void of protecting the first residence for these people on the standard criterion of commercial status, of bankruptcy and of the standard eligibility criterion, that they must have a profitable use. And here I want to comment on the Minister's answer. Does it mean that some toys are allowed to be made - I am not personally referring to, but to the law - for which they were announced, that they will be able to reopen business by stating the start of those who had ceased? So we're going to lead them to become strategic malicious malpractices with the legislation itself? And the third eligibility criterion, which is the most vague and dubious, is sustainability. And I would like to point out, lastly, that we are giving many rights to creditors with the extra-judicial mechanism and to the public, when we are making a positive vote on the regulation - and we have cases that have already been voted against - the one that the bank or the public or the insurance body would receive in the event of the forced execution of the civil procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u58	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u59	I shall conclude, Mr President. So we take all the property and the first residence, we put it in a package. And here I make a brief reference, as it is not the subject of my question: we put the property of the guarantors, which is accounted for, we put the property of the wife and wife, if she has a small, typical involvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u60	Please, Mr. Carras, complete. There is also the question that follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u61	So in that sense, Mr President, my question remains unanswered and I think that the government must take the initiative to legislate. There's no different way.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u62	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. I apologise for responding to my previous remarks and having to follow the formal stage.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u64	That's typical. It is predicted that Members and ministers are speaking in committees, while in plenary they are speaking upright.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u65	At least I didn't notice, so it's not about me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u66	Mr Carras, I listened carefully to what you said in your dentistry. What I want to say to you - and I will repeat - is that the government is committed to protecting the first home from auctions. There is this informal cooperation and consultation with the bankers, but we are not counting on it. As you know, the Act Katseli - Statakis protects the first residence. The extrajudicial mechanism is based on viable businesses. An undertaking must meet the criteria for membership and sustainability. What I want to say, therefore, because you are focusing on protecting first home, is that the government is committed to protecting it. And so far, as you know, despite the publications, there is no first home that has been auctioned. As far as the guarantor is concerned, I think that we have said so to a previous question, which you had done when we brought the bill of extrajudicial conciliation, that the guarantor will also be able to join the extrajudicial mechanism. Also, as far as the first residence is concerned, the guarantor can also be incorporated into the law of Katseli.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Papadimitriou. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 13/8-12/2017 by Mrs Fotinis (Phobis) Georgiou Arvanitides, Evangelos Venizelos, Leonida Gregorakos, Athanasios Theocharopoulos, Vasilios Kegeroglou, Harulas (Haras), Kefalidou, Yiannis Koutsoukou, Dimitrios Kremastinos, Odysseas Konstantinopoulos, Dimitris Konstantopoulos, Andreas Loverdopoulou, Ioannis Maniat, Ilhan Ahmed, Konstantinos Barriotas, Theodoros Papatheodorou, Constantinos, Constantinople, Michael Jele, Friday (Everi) Christophilopoulos, as well as Members of the Parliamentary Group of the River Georgios Amyra, Spyrdus, Spyridos Ljucoudis and Grigorios Ps Ps Ps to the Government's of Agriculture and Rural Development. Under the Rules of Procedure, the party's parliamentary group chairman speaks for ten (10') minutes, the second president of another party speaks eight (8') minutes. But these are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In any case, the letter of the law will not be kept, I am simply transferring it. As far as the honourable Members are concerned, the first Member of Parliament will speak ten (10') minutes in his prototype and five (5') minutes in his denture, the remaining Mr Koutsoukos, Danellis, Maniatis and Scandalidis will speak five (5') minutes in their prototype and three (3') minutes in their denology and Mr Constantopoulos and Mr Bargiotas will speak three (3') minutes in their prototype and two (2') minutes in their denology. Mr Apostle. Here, Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on our topical question coincides with the closure of three years that SYRIZA - ANEL is now managing a very important sector, such as the agricultural sector. And you, Minister, are the longest minister in the Ministry three years now. I must say, however, that you are also the most fatal minister in the agricultural sector. You have dissolved an important sector of the economy. And this has now become understandable throughout the rural world, that your agricultural policy nor has a specific national plan for productive reconstruction to play a leading role in the primary sector. The only crop that thrives is a new, innovative crop, fiscal policy on your day. By removing resources through tax lap and tax policy from agricultural income, you have made not only uncompetitive, but also inconsistent with all other crops. If we also take into account the high cost of production, the lack of liquidity, the lack of rules on the agricultural market, you lead the agricultural sector to the absolute poverty and the dismantling of agricultural production. So this is also our timely question, to highlight these anti-agricultural policies, your inability to design and inconsistencies of words and works, which deprive the farmer of the possibility of cultivating his field and being able to live in his village in response to his needs. But to turn back a little bit of time and remember what you were saying, not with the famous program of Thessaloniki, but what you were talking about next, when you actually landed. In fact, in view of the rally, you said 'no' to reduce the VAT on oil for farmers, a tax rate of 13%, an advance tax rate of 27.5%, a special tax on young farmers and a tax on compensation and subsidies and on the total agricultural income of up to 12 000 euros. These were your texts. What did you say next, though? In your programming statements, after you have now voted on your third - memorandum, in October 2015, you spoke and talked about substantial market interventions, lowering production costs in input sectors, examining in depth the potential for rationalisation and reducing energy costs. So far nothing has been done, and you have not even touched this hot issue. Instead, you abolished the agricultural current and increased it by 40%. You have abolished the reimbursement of the Special Oil Consumption Tax, but you are due to the return of 2015. You are asking today to answer when you will pay it, that is to say, even pay what you are due to the farmers. You have also left the question of substantial interventions to reduce production costs in input sectors unaffected. You have spoken about the rationalisation of the market which goes through the fight against harmonised practices in each sector and industry. The absolute nothing in this direction too! In fact, I have to say that at a harvest time, harmonised practices on the part of traders today operate inconsistently. At this point in time we have indisposed all the potatoes of Serres Prefecture, the mountainous volume and the lecadium of Neroscope, and even at the cost of such pressure by merchants, at EUR 0,08, when it is half of the cost of their production. You promised to fight a significant amount of tax evasion, tax evasion, subtracting the circuits of the market and establishing the mandatory use in tariff sales. What did you do to this day? You've achieved exactly the opposite. Your applied tax and insurance policy results in the disappearance of your sales invoices. The black trade in products has not just been fought, but has now become a norm. Here I would like to stress that you have abolished the register of traders of agricultural products that had to exist in the Ministry of Rural Development, in accordance with the PASOK Act. So you left trade in agriculture uncontrollable, because there was no such important instrument. For coordinated market intervention, you said that you would impose time limits on transactions in force in the European Union. You have clearly stated that it is incomprehensible that the country's agricultural production should finance the stores. Today it is just the same thing, with the stores speculating, since you have made it easier in this direction, because you have changed the payment of vulnerable agricultural products, which is one of the main agricultural products in the department stores. Thirty days since the payment, you took it in sixty days. But how can individuals pay when the state itself, that is, you are insolvent? Here I would like to stress that, at the moment, more than three thousand customs producers are unpaid by the Greek Sugar Industry, where you have changed five boards in three years. You owe about 10,500,000 euros. You have been making promises about promises for a six-month period and the customs producers have been unpaid. And that's not all, but you're hiding - in our repeated questions - to come and answer here in Parliament about when the producers will be paid. But, most importantly, they're going to grow the new growing season? What is the future of the Greek Sugar Industry after the three years of your co-government, to which you have changed five administrative councils? I am now continuing with the greatest failure, which is no more than the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme. You said and stressed with your own substantial and decisive intervention that the programme would work forward, with emphasis on development measures. Today we are faced with total failure in this area. Declarations, announcements, words and implementation of little! Measures that are constantly in the process of being procured! A moldy reality! Let's talk about your things. As far as the measure for young farmers is concerned, this is very roughly designed and many of the failures of the programme are. There is no serious concern about the implementation of this important measure. A number of young farmers are left out as perpetrators. On a pan-Hellenic level there are three thousand hundred twenty-two. Only in the region of Central Macedonia are a thousand hundred and thirty-three. Answer what you're going to do with them. You go to your regional conferences, as a few months ago in Crete, where you made promises that all the participants will join and so far nothing has happened at all. Do you realize, Minister, that every day that the participants have been delayed in joining the improvement plans, too? Measure 11, biological culture. This measure for organic farming and livestock can now be considered as the rural 'Waterlo' of SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence. I am talking about the fiasco of the first notice of measure 11, with the three amendments in the series - proposals and the commitment finally of 223 million of the 443 million, absorption of 50%. At the same time, as far as organic farming is concerned, you promised 220 million and based on your last announcements of 103 million. Where did the remaining 117 million go? For organic livestock, you promised in September 2017 that you would re-launch. We have continuous extensions which resulted in the number of applications submitted to be six times greater than expected. For processing the same thing, everyone fits. And now what? Are there going to stay out of mature plans to join those who didn't have mature dossiers? Six hundred 15 proposals for investment projects in the budget of 600 million, compared with a budget of 120 million. You have recently announced the improvement plans, but without the irrigation plans that concern and burn farmers. Why? Because the heresy that should have been closed by the end of 2016 is still open with even the large volatile projects that will be funded by the NSRP to be able to be implemented. The same is true of nitrates. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. I would like to say, however, that a measure that is important in terms of restoring the potential for agricultural production. It is necessary because of the adverse effects of climate change and the multiple disasters, such as in 2017, with clearly the inability of the competent insurance body to cope with them. You did not even touch this measure, and while we have disasters this year, for example, in peaches. The peach producers of Imathia and Pella are waiting. Repeated are your commitments that estimates have been made, that you will pay them 70% in January. And the day before yesterday, you gave extra-institutional bodies to make statements for three hundred thousand acres with 2.5 euros a acre, without knowing, close to 1 million. How did you give these? Without knowing, that is, the peach producers will be paid. The same has been done with the almond producers. The same happened with corn this year. Why don't you move such an important measure? I will say the rest in my dentext, both in relation to the common agricultural policy and your actions and how you move. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, however, I would like to say, Minister, that I am speaking as a representative of a party that has always had the rural area on its agenda. Because we have a vision and a plan for the rural area, which is why we are stressing today that the exit from the crisis passes through the productive reconstruction of the area, where the agricultural sector must have a leading role. Therefore, there is a need for a national strategy focusing on the revision of key policies such as: the reduction of taxation. Investment and tax incentives to create collective business activities by producers. Specific ESDP investment programmes for investment in sectors that the rural economy has a comparative advantage. Incentives to increase farmed areas. Support all competing products. Focus on research and innovation using national and Community resources. And smart processing of agricultural products with integrated sales and marketing organisation. These are all completely absent from your own government because your logic is that you are averting what creates and produces in this place. You unfortunately want the farmer and the beneficiary of the social solidarity allowance, because you think you can have him controlled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u70	The next honourable Member is Mr Koutsoukos. Please, Mr Kutsuko, you have the floor for five minutes under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I believe you have realised that you are the longest-lived Memorandum Minister for Rural Development and Food. Now, in your CV, when you spend a few years, you should think about writing it or omissioning it, as, Minister, you are operating within a government...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u72	As a result, we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u73	... which instead of creating incentives for production, so that the agricultural sector can contribute to our country's exit from the crisis, it does the exact opposite, it creates a stimulus. The counter-incentives have to do not only with the general environment investment and stability in the country and its prospects, but also with the specificity of the primary sector, as you have imposed a double system of taxation and contributions which is linked to one another and which leads mathematically to the reduction of production or to the concealment of the taxable material. There is no political liquidity to boost production in the agricultural sector, after capital controls and the lack of specialised interventions, no infrastructure policy, no policy to reduce production costs. I think that what our rapporteur has said earlier about electricity, energy and oil and, of course, there is no policy on Earth. Because you come from the traditional left, I remind you what Marx has said. Well, Minister, this whole framework leads to a'survival' of the agricultural sector, which, while it could be evacuated - because I want to remind you that we had made sure that we kept him out of the Memorandum of Understanding - you joined the Memorandum and so what dynamics he had developed in the first few years by increasing his export participation, you set it up. How this is reflected in macroeconomic data. Where there are positive, it is precisely because of our own policies. And because, Minister, you come from an area that had given us a tough policy to distribute the surplus of value added in previous years, I want you to tell us, now that you are taking the floor, where the lathe is now. So, if someone produces and has an income, who gets the surplus? Because, I imagine, you're probably going to some supermarket to shop. Can you see, then, - and I am not talking about the seasonal variations in fruit and vegetables that are often linked to seasonal conditions - can we go to products that have a stability - can you tell us, Minister, for example, why the price of sheep and goat milk has been reduced by about 30% in the producer? What's going on? Is the feta consumption reduced? Have prices decreased in retail trade, or has production been cut or uncontrolled imports of sheep milk increased, and can you not control it? I would like to mention a very classic example, we are all dealing with it in our constituencies. I guess you're dealing with it, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u74	Consumers may have intolerance suddenly to lactose.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u75	And let me combine this with the fact, Minister, that when you took over, you found the framework for the Trade Register, because an issue that is linked to the increase in the scissors has something to do with who is involved in the trade in agricultural products, which not only exploit the farmers' trouble, but at the end they also digging cannons. It is well known what is happening in rural areas. If we now come to the infrastructure issue, three years Minister and just the day before, the improvement plans were made public. What about young farmers? 30% of farmers hope to join the programme. The rest of you will stay out. In other words, youth entrepreneurship and the urge to enter the primary sector, you exclude it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to use a few minutes of my dentistry, Mr. President. Minister, measure 5.1 and 5.2 of the Rural Development Programme, which we "disastered the place" have taken care to include in the Rural Development Programme in order to make use of certain resources for natural disasters, which, due to climate change, are more frequent, what have you done so? Do you want me to remind you, Minister, that in September 2016 you visited the Lehannes, Bartholomew after the great catastrophe that took place and swept through all the greenhouses and said that measure 5.1 and 5.2 is directly activated? No activation of the measure. They abandoned the investments of tens and hundreds of thousands of producers and are in complete despair. No care. I will give you some examples of how you treat the farmers themselves, from the mechanisms you control. Natural destruction, hail in the watermelon of Elias, in the spring of 2016. Estimates in spring 2017. Objections in spring 2018. Neither is Moskovus, who we waited for him to come. The OGA, which you broke up and joined the EFCA, how long does it take, Minister, to pay the funeral expenses? We're killing them, and we're not paying them up. I would like to mention a few examples, Mr Minister, because farmers must also be taken care of, apart from the agricultural policy framework. You excluded farmers from the hundred and twenty instalments. A retired person who owes, how will he get what he is entitled to if he can't make a adjustment? And as if this general framework were not enough, you do not have a product policy. I mean, Mr. Jellonis said about the beet. I'll tell you two peak products, like the oil that goes well because of the timing. What about the homicide? This year's weather has favored us. Next year? What are you doing with the rejuvenation of the raisin you've been asked for? With the wine tax you said you'd abolish it? How do you do, Minister? And I'm ending up with this. The deadline you had set when the farmers of Elijah visited you for the policy of Earth is three times over. At last, sometime you need to get involved. You have promised that the subjugation of the irrigation network will proceed, because it is necessary to save resources. You haven't done any of this. As a result, Minister, let me finish. You are pursuing a policy that will make benefits to the CRL, the people that they can produce. Is that your ambition? Poverty, in other words, people to owe you a debt after an obligation to give them the allowance of EUR 200? I think this is disastrous for both the countryside and Greece as a whole. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Kutsuko. The next honourable Member is Mr Dannelis. Mr. Danielle, you have five minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u77	Will you give me the time of my dentistry, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u78	Okay. But you have five minutes prototype
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. I'll use it together. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with the great picture. And the great picture is nothing but the common agricultural policy and how it will change after 2020, which is tomorrow and, of course, how the current one will be changed in its second period. The changes imposed by economic data in the European Union, which are very different today, will mainly affect the first pillar of the CAP, direct payments. Both the pressure from Brexit which reduces the whole Community budget and the financing of the new policy on security in Europe, and the strengthening of the immigration fund, which were not initially anticipated when the European budget was drafted, all of this compresses and leads to a significant reduction in the rate of financing for the CAP. So the options that seem to be followed are through the renationalisation or subsidiarity of the CFP to transfer significant parts from the burdens of the CAP budget to the national funds. The European Commission Press Release on 29 November 2017 confirms this direction. We have the statements by the Vice-President responsible for employment and development, investment and competitiveness, by Yiri Katininen, but also by the Commissioner responsible for agriculture and rural development, Phil Hogan, who are clearly talking about a new model of the common agricultural policy that will provide a greater degree of subsidiarity to the Member States. In simple terms, there will be some common rules as a framework to ensure competition, but each Member State will impose a national plan - a dossier, according to the operating standards of the second pillar, on how it will make use of the resources it is appropriate and how it will then account for if it does not achieve the objectives it has set. This is a negative development, particularly for us in Greece, but it seems that we do not understand. I would remind you that our country is a stable country - receiver of funds, as opposed to the northern countries, which receive far less resources than those that contribute. Our country has been firmly opposed to any renationalisation of the CAP since the 1990s and it makes sense, since it has never been possible, particularly today, for the national budget to cover about EUR 2.2 billion of direct payments per year, directly directed to Greek farmers. On the other hand, the Nordic countries, when the agricultural budget is being discussed at European Union level, are setting a firm agenda for the renationalisation of the CAP, that is to say every country to finance its agricultural sector from national resources. To date, in this debate on the acquis communautaire in support of the European agricultural sector with common conditions and rules has prevailed. Things seem to be changing dramatically. The first step towards the renationalisation of the CAP, namely financing the agricultural sector from national resources, has already been taken and it is strange that Greece is drawing up with the request of our northern partners for the first time to renationalise the CAP. The Minister not only agreed with European planning rather than rejecting it, but also asked that the Member States should not be accountable for the way in which they make use of the CAP's resources. The logic of "ours are, what we want to do" is short-sighted, because it leads to "season and find them out of your pocket". We have, of course, forgotten what happened in the past few decades when subsidies were being smuggled, 'population' and, ultimately, a significant part of the agricultural world, as a result of the depreciation of national production. But also from the point of view of the Officerial Response, we have not seen the big picture seen, as well as the European-wide-playing association games, in which we with our well-known lightness always take the wrong side. In the context of a poorly understood party patriotism, the New Democracy has agreed with its European political family, the European People's Party, to the formation of the new architecture of the Common Agricultural Policy, but towards the desire of the northern countries. It is no coincidence that all the other countries in the European south have kept their distance from this proposal of the committee. Direct aid to the CFP is a financing of vital importance to European agriculture and especially to the Greek agricultural sector. Its structure in small and medium-sized, family-type farms does not allow it to survive in conditions of globalisation and large economic scales. That's for sure. To commit ourselves to renationalisation policies and even to committing ourselves to them even in the post- 2020 programming periods, which will completely change the landscape of direct payments, is naive. I shall speak very briefly about the Rural Development Programme. In addition to the measures under way, such as the 'New Farmers', the improvement plans, the support for organic production and investment of all kinds, the current PAA has had two very important new measures, the financial support of producer groups and organisations and the agricultural advisers. The measure of the system of agricultural advice, which is a regulatory obligation financed by the European Union with a commitment of EUR 120 million, and which should cover a wide range of advice on the regulatory obligations of producers, as well as economic advice on the economic growth of farms, is undoubtedly extremely important. I wonder, however, if we are all aware of this importance, because the agricultural advisory system would put in a class the existing unregulated regime of advice which is being paid by farmers and would cover the gaps that exist and which are particularly identified in the regional specificity of the Ministry's agricultural policy, the linkage of research with actual production and the dissemination of its results. To run the measure, however, a national institutional background must be created, on which it will be supported. Where are we today, Minister? And, of course, there should be a European certification to treat the farmers in the north equally, the farmers in advanced countries such as France or Italy, with the farmers in areas such as Greece or Romania. Ladies and gentlemen, January days and - as usual - an established date for farmers on the roadblocks is consistently made. "Revolutionary gymnastics", however, of taking the national roads, is not the answer to the existing problems of farmers, which are even growing. After all, the hardest moves have always reached an absolute defeat of the agricultural trade union movement itself. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, I shall conclude, Mr President. In order for farmers to be able to have tax and tax capacity, the government must create the conditions, above all, for the production of income. What is being demanded today is the use of the institutional and economic opportunities that the CFP continues to provide us, but also the opportunities, which the Greek-Mediterranean agri-food model offers to the Greek producer, with its participation, of course, in large collective schemes - mainly groups of producers - which are the key to its viability, since it cannot be fruited with the added value of the product it produces and of course cannot be sustainable economically viable. Otherwise, fate, we will see the years pass, opportunities to lose and problems multiply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much. The President of the PASOK Democratic Association, Mr. Gennimata, now has the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am beginning my intervention from the national issues and more specifically from Skopje, which has been dealing with these days, in particular, the Greek people. Unfortunately, as it appeared from the meeting of Davos, Mr. Tsipras continues his secret diplomacy, continues his secret diplomacy. Of course, we have not yet answered the main question of whether Mr Tsipras has made commitments to promote the Macedonian accession process to the European Union without having ensured a definitive solution to the problem. In any case, government bilingualism undermines any negotiation. On the other hand, Mr Mitsotakis' recent position on the issue of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia confirms his full extreme right-wing and does not serve national interests. It is unacceptable that the New Democracy, which has created and maintained the Skopje issue, should today try to avoid its responsibilities. The risks posed by the prolongation of the present deadlock make it necessary to seek nationally beneficial solutions, without meaning that we are giving a white cheque for any alleged solution. The government is calling for an effective and comprehensive solution that ensures that the Greek interests are fully respected and includes all the necessary guarantees to prevent acts of invasion, propaganda and circumvention of the spirit, as well as the substance of what will be agreed. No one can anticipate our final attitude, which will be determined by a sense of patriotic responsibility and not on the basis of micro-party considerations, but by assessing all the final proposal that it will bring, if and when it is brought about, the government and of course it will be formally formulated. We respect the genuine sensitivities of the Greek people. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA and New Democracy are playing on the back of the Greek people and with this national issue and trying to divide it. We are not going to allow that. We have a responsible and firm attitude. And I come to the question, the title of which could be 'farmers in the quote'. Their overtaxation is kneeling. He created very big problems in healthy farms. The State's revenue? Pneumatic. The linking of insurance contributions directly to agricultural income has crossed their necks. You took the OGA from a payroll fund and with unification you leveled it into the overall deterioration of the insurance system. The use of the EUR 6 billion of the Rural Development Programme is being carcinogenic. The Greek livestock farming is shrinking, due to the low milk prices, the high cost of feedingstuffs and the Greekizations. The absorption of the Fisheries Programme, zero. The interest shown by young people in dealing with agricultural income is not exploited by the government. The participants of the notices of the 'New Farmers' programme in various regions are on hold. This unfinishedness must be dealt with positively. We've been saying this for too many months. We must show by means of actions that the renewal of the rural population is a large, central, national objective. We must trust young people and give them opportunities, but also incentives. I'm on the subject of ELGA. The government also pretends that everything is going well. The truth is, however, that the delays in assessing damages and the payment of compensation from the ELGA, which result in the farmers in regions affected by various injurious causes and extreme weather conditions, are continuing today at a despair, unable to meet their financial obligations. In desperation there are also customs producers who do not know when to pay for the production of 2017 and do not know whether to grow in 2018, since the Greek Sugar Industry is in dissolution. In a particularly difficult economic situation there are peaches producers and fruit and vegetables producers affected by extreme weather, but also by the embargo on exports to Russia. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from all the above that the situation in the Greek countryside is very difficult and completely different from the virtual reality that the Prime Minister and his Government are trying to present at the various regional conferences. Instead of concrete measures and policies to support farmers, but also the Greek region, we are monitoring general declarations by the Prime Minister and his ministers for development, which are constantly coming, but unfortunately neither the country nor the farmers see her coming. The government must understand a very simple truth: the Greek economy is affected by the agricultural sector. So the development of the region with a reduction in farmers' incomes and farmers' incomes simply cannot be achieved. Development of the region, and without the linking of the agricultural sector with tourism, it cannot go any further either. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the government is unable to meet the needs and demands of the time. It does not have a plan for the productive restructuring and modernisation of farms. It's under the circumstances. It cannot inspire the forces of production and creation, it does not have the confidence of farmers, farmers, fishermen, fishermen who are struggling all over the country, asking for a policy change and demanding fair demands. As we have repeatedly said, we are not confined to criticism. We recognise the very great economic and social importance, the crucial role of the agricultural sector in exiting the country from the crisis and its contribution to both employment and social cohesion. We have worked out and tabled an integrated policy framework for farmers and the countryside, for the reversal of the disastrous process, for a better and hopeful perspective for the agricultural sector and the Greek region. We have committed ourselves - and I have also personally committed ourselves - to promoting concrete measures and policies based on a national development and productive restructuring plan. For example, I refer to ten of these today: Review the taxation of farmers, progressively reducing income tax and tax on aid. Disconnection of the insurance contributions from taxable income. Reduction of production costs, with emphasis on agricultural supplies, electricity and the introduction of agricultural oil. Adopt incentives to promote modern, strong and householded cooperatives and producer groups that effectively intervene in the supply of supplies and in the marketing of products. Infrastructural projects, using each euro available from the Community funds, for the energy self-sufficiency of agricultural holdings and water. To address the'red' loans and the primary sector for a second opportunity for farmers and agri-food businesses and to establish an inappropriate account for farmers, farms and businesses. Repeal of the levy on wine. The government is constantly talking about it in the future. Maybe he's been preparing it just before the election? It's her habit! But it must be done and it must be done immediately. Institutional protection of productive land and policies with tax incentives, tax exemptions, with Land Banks to exploit it by producers. Enable control mechanisms to fight illegal Greekisation, harmonized price practices and close the gap between prices in the field and prices in the shelf. Finally, updating the ELGA legislative and regulatory framework for the operation of the ELGA in order to address the new risks arising from climate change, as well as ultimately reducing the time to pay compensation. We want the space of the Greek countryside, a place to live, a place to attempt. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the European Commission is preparing proposals for changes to the CAP for the period after 2020. We consider this to be very important for the country, and that is why it should be at the Government's initiative that this dialogue has already been opened in society, and also in the House. In any case, we are opposed - as we have been in the past - to any attempt to renationalise the CAP and reduce the funds allocated. We are, however, positive in changes to fairer distribution of aid, to introduce young people into the agricultural profession, to reduce bureaucracy, to simplify the implementing rules and to reduce the administrative costs of implementing the programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that our resignation has strong ties with farmers. We're right next to them. We support their fair demands over time. We really care for them from the days of Andreas Papandreou and so far. Today, here from the House, I would like to express a call to the rural women and farmers, to all the forces of production and creation, particularly to young farmers, young scientists, young unemployed people, who suffocate in towns and villages, to take into account the development and productive reconstruction of the country. Together we can give the country hope and perspective, but also breath in the countryside. We are committed - and I personally commit - that the Change Movement will take the lead in the next period to give breath and vitality to the Greek region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u82	Thank you. Mr. Maniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Change Movement, Fofi Gennamata, said earlier that there is a government bilingualism and incompetence on the Skopje issue. And it's like that. We see it every day. The worst thing, however, is that this bilingualism and inability not only characterises foreign policy issues, but goes horizontally through the whole of government policy and much more through the issues of primary, agricultural production, fisheries, etc. Minister, the Ministry, with your responsibility, is the characteristic example of unreliable and counterproductive policy. A few days ago you didn't dare erase the three candles of your birthday. Do you remember what celebrations and biblicals you erased your first candle and the second candle? The third, why are you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u84	I don't get used to extinguishing candles!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u85	Because, obviously, you don't want to see Greek citizens in their eyes. Because, obviously, there should be a lamp to bury all the hopes, prospects and dreams that you have created to Greek citizens. So we are now coming to see what has happened in these three years of the Tsipra memorial. First of all, we have to tell the Greek citizens that, until 2015, the agricultural sector, the primary sector was outside memoranda. The troika had not intervened with Greek farmers, in the primary sector, until 2015. And what did you manage? You have fully integrated all the activities of the primary sector into the memorandum of yours, what you signed. Big accomplishment! And, of course, since you have brought all Greek production to a halt, you have made many other interesting measures, such as: Taxation of CAP aid, weakening of Greek livestock by extending the date of the raw milk, the lack of bank financing, the abolition of the OGA, and reduction of agricultural pensions, delays in ELGA payments and total lack of control on the market. Hellenization party is taking place, colleagues and colleagues! Greek consumers, outside the market, come out of the Greek producers and the speculative ends of the intermediaries are the rule in the agricultural sector. Let us start with the first point, to which I wish to refer. The first issue is extermination of taxation and insurance contributions. We had warned the Government: 'Create a greenhouse for evasion and tax evasion'. And the reality, unfortunately, came to confirm us. The new fruit in the Greek countryside, in the Greek region you know what it is. Various types, Greeks and Balkans, portray traders, buy products without documentary evidence and export them unannounced to neighbouring countries. This means that the national economy loses, that the Greek farmer loses, that the Greek product is discredited, that the health of consumers is at risk and that at the end of the day the primary sector loses another great opportunity, because precisely because of the loss and revenue of the public, there is no prospect and hope. I must tell you that we are dealing with this example in Argolida with oranges. These are tragic cases for which the government has no answer, as has no answer for the fact that the programmes of young farmers do not go ahead, it has no answer why they took out of the hundred and twenty instalments of farmers. I'm coming to the second topic, to the wine tax. Mercury! Tragic incapacity! In August you promised the winegrowers, winemakers, exporters, that you would abolish it. You're making fun of them. Now you're doing what's wrong. Even if you abolish the tax on wine, the damage has already been done. Many of these markets have already been lost and continue to be lost. The damage has come up now. I come to the third matter. Minister, have you heard the term 'Fourth Industrial Revolution'? Have you ever heard of your advisers, have you, that throughout the modern, developed world, agriculture is now changing by exploiting the new technologies? New technologies can offer us 80% reduction in waste water, 60% reduction in electricity, energy consumption, 70% reduction in agricultural supplies and medicines. Have you done anything? Can you tell us what your Ministry's policy is in this great revolution that has already begun and in which they are struggling to integrate some pilot areas, such as Xanthi, Argolida, Aitolakarnania? And to them these pioneer farmers find only the Ministry's bureaucracy! I will not go into the fact that you have not made progress in the drafting of the programme on agricultural advice and advice in the primary sector. The fourth issue concerns water and renewable energy. You know, Minister, because a few months ago you visited my place, Argolida, we then raised the issue of the expansion of the Anavalus, the work of the Argolida. It is a project launched between 2011 and 2014, returned a page and, in fact, in 2012, we announced the first extension of the project for 6.850,000 to Greek and Kossopodi. This project should have finished in 2015, we have entered 2018 and still the project has not been completed, because they have not moved forward, supposedly, some minor expropriations. But there's a second one. The hypocrisy of the government, its party of purpose, to present a false surplus, led her to do what she has learned to do: to reduce the Public Investment Programme by 850 million euros. The result of this reduction in the Public Investment Programme was the other extension of the Painting to Mycenas, Fichtia, Monastery, where we had secured 7.800,000 euros, we had completed the studies, and today we are talking about, after three years of SYRIZA, this extension to the Mycenas could have been carried out. You swallowed it all, so you could pretend to be the socially sensitive. Needless to say - we have also developed this in the recent debate of the Energy Communities bill - that the only action, which had to have been implemented since the beginning of 2015, was the possibility of installing renewable energy sources the fourteen local bodies of land improvements, where three hundred thousand Greek farmers are integrated, and which can reduce the cost of energy by 50%. The average farmer pays 5,000 to 6,000 euros a year, as a minimum, for PPC. This money can be reduced to half. You do nothing, however, while we have legislated since the end of 2014 the possibility of including it. I conclude, Madam President, with the latest, perhaps more important, observation, of the new common agricultural policy. Minister, for the 2014-2020 programme, for agriculture, fisheries, livestock and all sectors, you received EUR 20 billion from us and another EUR 15 billion for the rest of the NSRF. The bed of your negotiating capacity is 20 billion euros. Do not think of saying that because of Brexit there will be reductions, because I remind you that both in 2011 and 2012 and we prevented them. But move on to something tragic, inconceivable. Did you talk about the renationalisation of the Common Agricultural Policy? Is it a serious thing to address the Greek farmers and in front of the deadlock you have created with your inability to talk about the renationalisation of the common agricultural policy, that is, the Public Investment Programme to pay farmers' subsidies?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u86	Who said that? It's amazing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u87	In the face of your inability to formulate a national strategy, with consultation of all the political forces, for a strategic plan, for the foundation of the country's new productive model, which is the primary sector, you go on to "other words to be loved".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u88	Jesus, you can't lie inconveniently!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u89	I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen. I think it is time to be honest with the Greek farmers. We, in the Democratic Participation, in the Change Movement, have tabled concrete proposals and look into them. We have told the truth and we are the only party that has a reconstruction programme in the primary sector, which can indeed be the foundation for the country's new productive model and will bring smile and optimism to farmers. It will bring smile, optimism and perspective, especially to young children who want to innovate, create, become extroverted farmers and producers and bring new national wealth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Scandalides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, our President previously set the overall framework for a policy which could actually lead the agricultural sector to dismantling development. Our rapporteur and speakers have so far described the enormous problems which the anti-agricultural policy of the government has created in every area. The main of these are taxation, insurance, production costs, lack of liquidity and, above all, the inconsistency of the market. I would like to focus on the overall, structural contribution and the development process in the sector, because I understand that the distance between the Prime Minister's success story, that growth has come, and in fact, where the agricultural sector lives, is huge and cannot be covered with any finer or communication tricks. Can you, Minister, bring examples of numbers showing some improvements, but the question that you need to answer is as follows: has the rural economy and food become the steam engine of growth in these years, as could be done? Is there this reverse course of the country? It didn't happen. It's three lost years. That is the central conclusion of this policy. And yet, in the three years 2009-2012, a long-term national plan was set up which provided for multi-dimensional institutional and, above all, functional intervention in almost all sectors of the agricultural sector. I shall list, for example, and I will ask myself what has happened so far in land policy, which aims to exploit the high-purpose property to young farmers and new producers. Millions of acres could have been attributed and invested in large pieces of public property that were detected and were more than six hundred, could have been done now and there really is a resurgence of the sector's development. Nothing's happened at all. A regional development policy has been designed by activation of regions, product baskets, agri-food partnerships, contract agriculture and auctions. Then we turned around and talked to the farmers who brought their products. He became opposition, became a poor girl. In fact, then it was the first memorial period and it is well known what the atmosphere was in these processes. This institutional change began with a great deal of effort, but it stopped. We started the policy of strengthening and legitimising livestock units in order to enable mountainous livestock units to be legitimised immediately. The law was approved by the European Community. We have just signed an extension a few months ago to save the fines, because they have not been legalised so far, although it has been a very simple procedure. We made political intervention on the product market with the aim of intermediaries with the Trade Register, which you did not apply and you abolished, and of ensuring the guarantees for the payment of farmers. We have made a policy of reorganising and controlling the trade in pesticides. You are just starting to take some cowardly steps after too much delay. We have made a policy of reorganisation, reconstruction, modernization of the cooperative movement with counterproductive, dismantled and commentary units and all the rings of interest that afflict the country here and abroad and degrade it. Mergers, producer groups today had to be at the forefront of the export race and everywhere. There are no essentials! We have made a policy of highlighting model units and innovative practices that show roads and multiply initiatives. We have made a policy of unification of research, education and certification in a single organisation, but you have let it sink, and we have negotiated hard for the CFP at the time, and we have brought this possibility that the country has today, and we have ensured the smooth financing of producers in all appearances, whether it is insurance, whether it is disaster or the money coming from the European Union and we have also done and prepared for new institutional interventions. Unfortunately, you see this country is hunting for a curse, the state's uncontinuation. I can list you ten laws that have already been passed by other governments. Didn't the Minister read them? Don't the former government want to take the case that she's done it and not her? It's a curse that accompanies us and keeps the country on a sub-development path. We, by choosing, prioritised the productive and seamless development of the sector. We kept him with fingernails and teeth, except for the memorials. The money that was available at the time for the improvement plans went for too many new investments. There was a real safeguard of resources that could give impetus and finally develop this sector, which should be the engine of development. You, unfortunately, brought him back not only to the memorials, but also from the door and from the windows, so that today the potential of what exists, and which could give a breath in that country, can come on a real path. We have had unfinished debates - they are here Members who remember them - on all the issues relating to each step of our policy. We held cross-party meetings, held meetings with the institutions, everything, we went to every region. This orgasm of work, in an area that you have to take from the hair and literally lift it, we do not see him being made by your government. So there could be a restructuring which can be seen as a dismantling. Unfortunately, it is true that you have born a real hope that you would be the beginning of the new one. It's a shame because you're finally becoming the end of the old.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u92	Thank you for the time, Mr Scandalides. Mr. Constantopoulos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the ongoing economic crisis has exacerbated inequalities. The Greek society has become poor. The tax system and the social security system have been transformed into mechanisms for producing young people. Among them are farmers. And that's why? Because there were no reforms in these areas that shield their profession, create a social network of protection and transform the primary sector into a real pillar of development for the country. The political system has inactivated and is still inactive, standing awkward waiting for growth to come in a magical and transcendent way. Gentlemen of the government, six crucial points, I would say, keep the Greek economy at the dawn, where they reduce the country's credibility and bring production forces to pessimism and desperation, such as the great public debt. Secondly, the problem insurance system. Thirdly, problems and delays in the administration of justice. Fourthly, the malfunctioning tax system. Fifthly, the non-support of the primary sector and, sixthly, the problems of pluralism. For all of this, no positive development, no progress, no reform. Minister, on Thursday February 1st, on the occasion of the opening of the International exhibition "AGGOTICA", a rally will be held in Thessaloniki. The roadblocks have already begun. Let me stress that the farmers have no memory of gold. They see what? They see their income shrinking and instead the costs grow. According to ELSTAT, the revenues of September 2017 for farmers decreased by 3.2%, while their expenditure increased by 2.5%, compared with September 2016. Prime Minister Protestantly said from Crete that he who has an exclusive income from the primary sector or over 50% of his income must literally be protected, because he is the productive fabric of the place. And I ask: How do you protect them, Minister? With the tax burden on agricultural income, from 22% for income to EUR 20,000, up to 45% for income exceeding EUR 45 000, with an informal tax-free limit of EUR 9,445? With the obligation to pay tax for next year at 100%, which, moreover, also removes liquidity? With tax increases in land rent by 15% to 45%? By unwillingly establishing the irresponsible agricultural account? By increasing insurance contributions by 16% for 2017? By increasing the pension thresholds to sixty-seven and by taxing agricultural subsidies? By abolishing excise duty on oil and excise duty on wine? With ELGA’s residual function, when it has not yet paid compensation for 2016 and 2017? With the irrational utilization of the CAP's resources? All this in what? No progress, no progress. Minister, the work of the PASOK Agricultural Development Ministers has been untapped. I remember the anguish of Kostas Scandalidis, the then Minister for land policy in order to increase agricultural holdings, the register of farmers and farms, in order of course to map and record them, to combat smuggling and Greekisation within a system of organised controls. Gentlemen of the government, you have made a promise to the Greek people, which is about the next generations, to proceed with the productive reconstruction of the country, because we are not judged for what we have inherited, we are judged for what we will be inherited in the next generations. Even now, set up an inter-group committee to draw up a productive reconstruction plan for the country with objectives and timetables, with parliamentary consent, to proceed to an intersection for our country's development model. We, the Democratic Reconciliation, have the proposals to support the Greek producer and to encourage young farmers in the agricultural sector who are genuinely seeking opportunities to work in the agricultural sector, to provide the social protection that the rural world needs, to truly link scientific research to agricultural production, to make better use of domestic production in the context of tourism and export development. And we are in the mood to discuss and bring positive changes to the agricultural sector that will have a direct positive impact on the domestic economy. It is time for actions and not for speeches. So bring the farmers' red loans to a solution, because red loans to farmers today are a loop and ach, because the primary sector really is being put in place, which for all should be our bet if we really want to produce domestic wealth. So let us show respect, as is appropriate to these people, because they are waiting for us. We are judged and judged by our actions and our works and not, of course, by unrelenting promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Barriots has the floor. Mr. Barriotta, would you like to condense your time?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u95	I will condense him and then extend him, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u96	I won't let that happen! Mr. Barriotta, you can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Madam President. I'll try to be in my time. Sometimes it's good to look a little outwards before we start looking in. So I will mention an example that we often say. The Netherlands is a middle-sized country. It has two and a half times less rural land than Greece, is the biggest exporter of food to Europe, the second largest in the world after the United States, which is two hundred and seventy times greater than its farm. It's a question. How did the Dutch achieve it? Very - very briefly the Dutch twenty years ago set a national target for their agricultural production: twice as many foods with half the resources and underneath they hung on innovation and gave it an incentive, they tried seriously and had excellent results in reducing the use of water, antibiotics in livestock production, etc. That's how we arrived, while we evolved in our own interiors, the tomato of Ierapetra is often more expensive than the Dutch, not there, not in Munich, but in Athens' vegetable market. There are examples of this. So while they grow and grow, we sink more and more, it seems. Do we have a national plan? That's the question. The Dutch had one. Do we have national targets? Have we, for example, ever discussed, do we know what we want to have in 2030 from ovine and caprine animals, or will we be urging behind the debates, the one for milk, the other for CETA and indeed the conditions that have been introduced in the debate on CETA and feta in Greek production? Do we have a point of view? Do we know whether walnuts, for example, are a good alternative to cotton, which has begun to flood the place of Thessaly? What areas? Do we know what impact this has on water management and the desertification of Thessaly? Do we know by 2030 what kind of water we'll have? We have heard about 600 million in an optimistic programme in Thessaly, where 600 million are not there, are not written anywhere and there are no studies. The only serious work that existed and evolved was the irrigation by Acheloos, which was cancelled by this government, leaving a gap and there is no realistic programme in fact. Greek agricultural production has had problems for years. From now on, over the last three years, another one has been added. The vertical increase in production costs. If the Dutch had twice as much food as half the resources, Greece's government's choice in the last three years is multiple financial revenues from farmers and let the old Bell go! Because, I'm very afraid, unfortunately, that's where we end up. Up to EUR 7,500 on the upper income threshold above the time of insurance contributions. Look out, 7,500 euros! Taxes have been said, I will not say them, but the rates are scary, they have actually increased catastrophic in recent years. The current rises and the cost of oil increased. It sounds - and I hope it's not true - that HNVO will grow per acre at levels that are unthinkable, especially for mediums...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u98	Where do you hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u99	I'm not saying it's done, Mr. Papadopoulos, I'm saying it sounds. Let him be disobeyed, it's not bad. So, instead of incentives, we have counter-incentives, and indeed the anti-incidents are targeted, since economic bleeding is about a piece of farmers, which would in fact be what could reinvest and increase agricultural production. There is also in Greece - and one meets every day, especially in the strong regions - a new layer of farmers, young people with knowledge, with money, with land, with perception, trying to open up new crops, new markets and which is exactly what is affected. In the Netherlands, there are tax incentives and other incentives to introduce innovation. 2% of farmers who introduce innovative actions are paid to the Netherlands every year, those who implement innovation, new crops. Here the profitability, the increase in turnover is a stimulus, as insurance and tax policy is now structured. You don't want to make money, or he'll get you public. That's the reality. You have no motive to increase your turnover and production for the simple reason that by increasing production, you only have to lose. We have all said that the Rural Development Programme is unfortunately being delayed. ELGA doesn't pay. Yesterday, in Larissa, there were mobilizations. The delays are huge, especially with experts. Young farmers are being mobilized. After seven months, we heard that the perpetrators will finally get in, but on criteria that are somewhat curious and rather customer-friendly. It sounds like everyone in western Macedonia, but not in Thessaly, for example, has not been sufficiently explained why the Thessaly young farmers are staying out. There's a question there. There is a major objective here, an increase in revenue in the logic of overcrowding. There is no other policy in the rural economy than taking more tax and insurance than farmers. As I have said before, this policy aims and destroys the very ones that should be supported: young farmers, strong, with land and mood to reinvest. It has already destroyed the small ones, who are now turning into awkward allowances, having no hope of increasing their output or improving their position. In this context, the Ministry may have been transformed into a Ministry for the Management of Agricultural Mobility. We see it every winter trying to suppress the agricultural mobilisation, and in reality what the country needs - and it needs it yesterday - is productive reconstruction policies, in the context of the proposals that we have made today and in the context of the policies that we have tried to develop in previous years. The challenge for the next few years is this. We are tired of all listening and repeating it that one of the two or three key pillars of development that will take the country out of the crisis is the primary productive sector. With these policies, I am very afraid that the primary productive sector is not going anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, too. The Minister now has the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u101	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Gennamas for her brief passage in the debate. Of course, with regard to her reference to the Prime Minister for his participation in the negotiation, the Greek people know and have authorized the Prime Minister, who is characterised by the sense of responsibility in all his meetings and discussions, to deal with this particular matter. Wait and see that everything went to the benefit of the Greek society and the Greek people. I would also like to thank the Members of the Democratic Integration and of the River for their question, let alone in an hour when the rural world is being mobilised. I have said that and I repeat that there are problems in rural areas. That is why it is the right of farmers to mobilise. I once again call on them, by means of mobilisation, to meet and talk, because there are issues on which we can offer something better. However, I cannot comment on the extremities that have been experienced during the debate by colleagues. We are, however, overcoming this because the rural area wants us to approach its sector with data and, above all, with possibilities, to solve their problems. Ladies and gentlemen, you have spoken about the lack of a productive plan for the country's reconstruction. I shall therefore present a copy of the minutes of the relevant debate held in December 2016 in the Committee on Production and Trade on our strategic plan, as regards the agricultural sector. It was an obligation that came as a result of L.4336/2015, namely the third memorandum, which reminds you that the parties that are in favour of the European process have voted together. In fact, during this debate - I shall be tabling a copy - your representatives, in particular the PASOK-New Democracy coup d'état, told them that this is a proposal that is in the positive direction. Now, from there on, if you say it's in the positive direction, you can start expressing your reservations. That was their location. And we, as the government of SYRIZA, did not submit this at the last minute and as an official opposition we had during the exercise of our opposition activity, highlights and publishes our proposal for agro-food complex as a precondition for the development of Greek society. I'm just giving it to you. Of course, that's not all. The whole volumes are, but at least you can see that we were working in this direction. [[At this point, the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In fact, for the proposal you mentioned on the strategic plan, I tell you that we are currently in an update process, because by the end of March 2018 we must put forward proposals, within the framework of the agreements and discussions that we are having with the European Commission. So we in the plans that we have tabled, and what we are updating, have linked our exit from the crisis with the strengthening of agricultural production and, more generally, the agri-food sector. You may disagree, but at least at the regional conferences that we are going to see, in particular, the rural world coming, discussing and accepting in substance the proposals that we are putting forward through this comprehensive strategic plan for the reconstruction of the rural economy and the revitalization of the region and the countryside. How do we serve? We have in these three years legislative initiatives and interventions such as that of grazing land. You objected to a regulation that was a major issue for livestock farming. We have brought a framework for agricultural cooperatives. We'll tell you later what the operation was in the cooperative movement and what impact this function we found today had. We have brought a framework for the use of renewable energy sources. We brought the farmer's card. I would remind you that it went very well in connection with 80% of the basic aid, and that is why we are preparing for 2018 to extend it to 80% of the greenery. We brought a framework for the payments of agricultural products, because you said that we had 30 days and you did sixty. You had thirty days and you had a paragraph below that said that unless the parties decide otherwise, which means the weak link, the farmer, can impose thirty days in front of the wholesaler when the supermarket exists. Do you know where we ended up? I don't want to get irritated, but the seven days ending in the milk are accompanied by seven months and twelve months' checks were a rule. I don't think you can question that. Nor was it important to indicate the country of origin of milk products, milk milk, meat, etc.? I say this because you, too, agreed with this arrangement. We have also raised other issues relating to herding, which are related to the rural property management organisation - we will perhaps see them in the second instance - but others that follow. At this point there is the bill for collectiveness in the rural area. You know that you have left entire sectors of agricultural activity out of the possibility of trade unioning, such as fishing. In particular, you have not touched on fishing matters at all. By Royal Decrees the operation of fishing was governed. We also intervene on issues relating to the Bank of Genetic Materials and others. You'll see. I would like to agree with you, and I think it is a big matter of the need to combat Greekism. We are trying to deal with the situation by stepping up controls. And I will stand up to a typical example that we announced this morning. We have arrogant imports of lambs from Romania, which are slaughtered and sold on the internal market, either as Greek - that is to say, Greek - or are either available without appearing, that is to say on the black market. The case of a Greek company in northern Greece, which in recent control was found in 2016, while it had purchased more than ten thousand lambs of Romania, either by importing them directly or buying them from Greek companies, to show inputs of only one thousand Greek lambs, while the cross-checking of the massacres from the online application “Artemis” by ELGO “DIMITRA” appears to have taken place for all 2016 in the slaughters of three thousand eight hundred Romanian lambs and three hundred fifty Greece. In other words, we have very obvious illegality both of the Greek slaughterhouses and of their non-reportation to the Artemis system. The case was referred to the prosecutor. I would like to make it clear once again that we will systematically fight Greekism, because we want to protect our farmers, our farmers and the Greek consumer. At the same time, I would like to send a warning to the milk marketing and processing cycle that we will be as strict as we want to defend our feta, we want to defend products which, despite your disagreement, have a very high demand on foreign markets. I come to the issues you are putting, and it is quite frankly wrong how you put yourself on the big one - I would say - in terms of our Ministry of Taxation and Insurance. Your opposition tactic is wrong and has led the space to procedures which do not serve the farmers themselves. This mixture, which you call 'tax-insurance contributions' was in our own patronage, in our negotiations with the institutions. And the evidence shows that it was very successful, by linking tax relief to insurance, it makes farmers gains and, indeed, by ensuring them two important demands, who were dreams of rural space, individual tax free and national pensions. I'm getting clearer. I would like to remind you, first of all, that for taxation from the first year of our governance, in 2015, we prevented your own governments from taxing agricultural income from the first euro, including aid and compensation from the first euro.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u102	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u103	Don't argue. Here it is. So I'm going to tell you the corresponding circular from the 2014 Ministry of Finance, where it clearly says that "on the basis of Law 4172/2013..." - I think you voted for this law, don't you? - and expressly as regards transactions, 'including those relating to the sale of goods or the provision of services by the collection of subsidies, financial aid, compensation and reimbursement of interest'. And, below, it says that "it is obliged to display all of the above, when it receives subsidies, financial aid, etc." So this is your circular, which was taxing from the first euro to 13%. Do you know how much farmers would pay for this arrangement? They'd pay 440,000. And we are coming - because you tell us what you have done - and we are bringing regulation in 2015, where aids up to 12 000 euros do not put them in. And automatically from this process, there were 175 million euros and not 440 million euros. I'm tabling the relevant circulars because you keep repeating that we didn't do it. [[At this point, the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So I come to the income of 2016, where our own legislation was actually implemented, on the basis of the agreement we have made with the institutions. In 2017, for their income 2016, with details of the Ministry of Finance - seek them, it is not difficult to find them! - all agricultural income together - mainly or not - has now entered us as well as the main occupation of farmers - paid 129 million, 50 million less than the previous year. In fact, the main professiond farmers paid an average of 69 million. Of course, you will say: 'But do you set an average?' Well, no matter what we do, when the average is 120 euros each, you can see how low farmers have been, when in particular this year, because there has been an advance in the previous years, we have also had tax refunds. That's what we're talking about in terms of taxation. And I come to the insurance, because that again proves, when the vast majority of farmers paid more than 89% of the minimum contribution of EUR 87 per month. That contribution was paid. What for? In order to ensure the national pension of EUR 384, which, if added to it and EUR 87, will now be in return for insurance contributions, you understand that the pension will not be the EUR 384, but will also be added to the part that exists from the contribution compensation. It must be understood to the farmers - and you, ladies and gentlemen - that if this intervention were not done, the pension aid which the rural area received was to zero on the basis of legislation which you had carried out. So the mixture is such that it actually relieves farmers and at the same time gives them possibilities - I repeat - to use individual tax-free, which is a great conquest, as is the national pension. You are speaking, ladies and gentlemen, in your question about the delay in making use of the resources of the Rural Development Programme. The majority of the programme's development activities have already been launched. In total, in just two years following the adoption of the new EAFRD, the total public expenditure of the measures announced has exceeded 2.3 billion, while more than 3.8 billion have been committed to new notices and ongoing projects, i.e. 65% of the programme. What did we receive? Only the consequences of the poor management of Community aid to the governments of both the PASOK and the New Democracy and a programme of rural development which the European Commission has returned to us as a clipboard. I would remind you, then, once again that we have received a programme which required many interventions. We have been called upon to correct it, to correct it and to put it in a year's delay with regard to the other countries in the implementation process. As far as the payments are not concerned, all I have to say is that they amounted to the highest level in the last decade in the first year. The Rural Development Programme has overcovered - note this - the ESDP objective, contributing with the largest amount of resources absorbed in the Public Investment Programme and thus with the largest amount of Community resources input into the country among the twenty operational programmes of the ESDP. I would like to say to you that the programme has already reached, despite the delay - I repeat again - on the Community average of absorption. Indeed, it is a second time in terms of the rate of increase in payments between the twenty-eight Member States of the European Union. And I don't claim this on my own, I don't make it on my own. I shall therefore present to you, for the Minutes, the greetings of the representative of the European Commission at the recent session in Volos on the Rural Development Programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u104	What percentage did we get, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u105	Say that again, Minister, and it is not a provocative one, we simply didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u106	We are increasing the second between the twenty-eight Member States. Just to read the statement in the Commissioner's greetings: “I would like to congratulate you on the progress your programme has made. It started late, but because of the great efforts you are making, things have been done that have reached a very advanced level." And of course, you will read it with your comfort. Indeed, he says, he clearly states - because you said before, Mr. Scandalidis who left, that 'we had ensured... and that is why we had no prerequisites' - that we as the Ministry of Rural Development already have all the prerequisites on the basis of the strategic plan that we had before. And that's why you see that when we talk about prerequisites, the Ministry of Rural Development is not in. [[At this point, the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] You continue, ladies and gentlemen, to talk about a 10% reduction in direct payments. And your lies are double. The first lies in what the percentage refers to, since it is not all aid - you say '10% direct payments' - only the basic one. Lie first. And the second lie, of course, is as far as the percentage you refer to is concerned. Where did you see that 10%? It's 6.4%. And, of course, you know that this is part of the policies that we want to implement in the area, linking livestock and other activities to related aid, where we got a 3.1% increase there. We have challenged and received this opportunity from the European Commission. At the same time, we have, of course, taken 2.5% for the creation of a national reserve for young people, when you and the regulation you agreed on in the CFP - because we are applying this regulation that you decided on - you left young farmers out without rights. Don't you know that? So we, without affecting the funds coming to our country, are making speeches. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And really, because I have heard Mr. Dannelly, what is it you want, that you do not have to give a reason for programming and plans? Of course we want to implement specific policies and we must call for the possibility of doing so. Is that bad?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u107	For renationalisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u108	So no specific money has been lost, or even 1 euro. Go where they should go, doubling the associated payments to livestock. It's a choice we've made and we want it. Of course, there's no time now. I just want to remind you that two thousand two thousand young farmers - who had been excluded - have already entered the normal procedure for granting their rights since 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u109	Tell us about the renationalization they are asking, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u110	I will close this part which is particularly concerned with aid. I don't understand you. In other words, honestly, I think that is a common concept. Tell the farmers who are mobilised, who have even come to say 'yes, they have been well managed, we get the aid, they are our right'. Of course it's their right! So I do not want to go any further than that, because every year they are paid the time they have to, at the same time, without depriving them of a single euro. I just want this opportunity to remember the fines, the charges and the recoveries we have, for the write-down of which we are fighting too much - it does not allow us to tell you - when, according to the opinion of our Legal Affairs Council, we are obliged, he says, to enter the payment procedure, because otherwise we are in danger of being put into a process of settling fines with aid. At least until the end of this Programming Period, this thing is not going to happen. Madam President, I shall end. I just want to say two words about the CAP, because we have really sent you to take part in this process, but you have not responded. We're going on. We're having a consultation, we're having meetings all the time. You've got an invitation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u111	Just like we got the strategic plan!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u112	Call now!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u113	Here, in the House, let's see you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u114	From there on, then, all developments are open. The debate on this issue has begun. The greatest challenge we have to face is not only to ensure adequate resources, but also the balance between the resources and the commitments that will be made, both from the CAP and from our farmers. That is why we need to approach the future in terms of not only economic but also social terms, as part of a holistic approach to the future of the European Union itself. We are opposed to any form of renationalisation. We insist specifically on this. Many times, when there are even discussions on a 'crisis fund', through which each country can deal with exceptional situations, we are against, because all these procedures are leading in this direction, and we cannot compete in this direction. So our position is that Community aid must be granted on the basis of the product produced and not the acreage and farmers must have the same rights in the region and in the product. In fact, because both Brexit and the refugee are being used as issues which cause problems in the Community budget, we in particular insist that there is no way of agreeing on either a euro reduction, how much more so when we have the big issue - as you all know - with the new countries, which are getting less areaal aid than the old and there is a battle. You realize that we are one of those who react with regard to the other countries. From there on, there is no way to agree. I'm going to tell you a typical example. I am talking about what is going on with the aid, which is incomprehensible. In the same region, the minimum unit value is EUR 3 per acre, the maximum EUR 1,300 per acre and the theoretical value EUR 25 per acre. You realise that we have found these, and that is why we are fighting even this year, in 2018. You also heard the Prime Minister who started talking about convergence, about possibilities that we will try to get. It's not easy. So we want to give this direction to the common agricultural policy, which will not have a reduction, but will certainly be in favour of convergence. What we really need to see as quickly as possible is the redistribution of rights from zero to zero. I'll say more in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the circle of parliamentary representatives begins now. The first is Mr Theocharopoulos, who has six minutes' time. Mr. Theocharopoulos, will you use your dentistry as well?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u116	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u117	Therefore, Mr Theocharopoulos, you have the floor for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u118	Minister, I listened carefully. You did the white black thing literally. A virtual reality recital. You said about a strategic plan that you have tabled for the agricultural sector. You meant the prerequisite in relation to the Memorandum Obligations, which you have given last time, to go through the next procedures. Of course, from what you were saying in there, you didn't do anything in the next few years. You spoke again about 2015. Instead of thanking the opposition that has not allowed the country to remain outside the Eurozone, you want to charge it and what you have agreed and signed as government. You have at the same time said that the rural world accepts your proposals. I say it again so that the rural world can hear it. The rural world agrees, you said, with you! Then we hear from you other than what we see. Because we see farmers, who you mentioned in certain ways before, complain about specific issues with which they have disagreements and that is daily. You also spoke about the procedure of the Agricultural Development Programme of the Common Agricultural Policy. You have not told us in the common agricultural policy what the Greek Government's position in the negotiations is in relation to the renationalisation of the common agricultural policy. I am referring to the renationalisation, the trend that exists in some countries of Europe, to which you must strongly oppose. This must be reflected in all the Councils of Ministers. The opposite must not be done, because this will result in the reduction of aid and the first pillar and the second pillar. It is precisely the questions we ask and want specific answers about what you said to the Council of Ministers. Give the Minutes what you answer and how you are placed. Instead, theories. And the country after 2020 is at risk - the European Union, that is to say, the country - has a partial renationalisation, resulting in a reduction in aid. Whether this happens in the first pillar or in the second pillar - either in the pillar, that is, in direct payments or in the pillar of the Rural Development Programme - it will have painful consequences for our country. Mostly, however, you did not speak as Minister for Rural Development. You spoke in accounting. You just talked with numbers. That's a good conversation. You could testify to them in the Minutes. We've read them. They're giving it to the services. You haven't spoken politically at all. You don't have any visions in your department about the country's rural development. You have not presented any substantial plan. If we ask Members here, even the government MPs, what the plan is, nobody knows at the moment. The same is true of what the three major objectives that this government wants to achieve, and if it has any objective and certainly nothing to do with you. Of course, I could tell you a lot of things you were saying. I have here the speech of Mr. Tsipras, who in 2013 in a region of the country, when he was head of the opposition officer, said too much. He said that he was condemning us, as I see in the written text, by the common agricultural policy. I don't know if that's your place today. He said that if it has reached - which has reached - production costs to a large extent, it is due to the fact that oil and electricity are at unthinkable heights. In 2013, he said that! That's why you doubled it! You doubled all costs in connection with irrigation and oil. Mr. Tsipras said that the uprooting of the world of hardship - in 2013, see what the 2013 figures were in relation to oil - will be the final blow to this unfair policy that destroys the country. He said this is a fair fight and about income. He said: “How do we talk? You don't talk. Politicians should not speak with farmers. First they put the taxes, they expensive the electricity and they expensive the oil." What you guys are doing. Normally, we had to tell you not to talk at all, on the basis of what you were saying in the election. Mr. Tsipras said: "You cannot have agricultural production with oil and electricity in heights. It must be abolished by decision in Parliament - and we are committed to this - the increase in the oil tax.' And instead, you abolished the discount on oil. He said a lot, a lot more. He was talking about ELGA, too. It doesn't matter. And I said that because we just shouldn't talk without knowing what everyone says in this place. Since October 2015, Minister, we have asked you questions about too many issues. I have here questions for the ELGA, which are too many. Your answers usually state that the relevant procedure is in progress, that you will try, that you are being promoted. I don't think that's how problems solved. You were talking about insurance and you essentially went through the tripling of insurance contributions and abolishing the OGA, while you had to deal with the existing problems, separating welfare from farmers. However, instead of that, you have made a mammoth fund which does not work for any accusation and, of course, neither for farmers. When we told you this, you didn't hear from us. You were shouting about the farmers' tax. What did you do about it? You proceeded with the taxation of income in percentages that do not apply in any other country, in advance of tax at 100%. And the VAT on agricultural supplies, here and now, if we have a mockery. It was 13%. It was the country - and you rightly said - that it must be reduced because the average in the European Union - and I have the figures - is 8% and 9%. You came to the government, you went 23%, you went 24% in the first year and celebrated the negotiation you have made to bring it back to 13%. That is, what you did the first year, in 2015, which from 13% did it to 24%, the second year and the third year, you brought it back to 13%. That is what you say is your main achievement in fiscal agricultural policy. Well done, that is, if you think you've done it that way! All these problems come to add the problems to the use of the Community resources of the Rural Development Programme. I have heard, Minister, what you are saying and what you say about the evidence that we are the greatest in the rate of growth, without mentioning what position our country is in relation to absorption. These are accounting discussions, of which you are well aware, and I can show you that we are one of the last countries in the European Union in many of them. But I'm not going into this conversation. Why, for example, have you been late in connection with irrigation? They're specific questions. Two sects still haven't moved on from the drainage basins. It's not only about your department, it's about another ministry. It's about another ministry, the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u119	It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u120	You'll tell us. However, from this, we cannot include the improvement projects in the previous period, which is why I am referring to this whole process. You have all delayed, with the culmination of agricultural advisors, the agricultural advice, which is a system that the European Union gives us in order to manage, so that producers can cope and know what they have to do in this modern environment. Unemployment will also be reduced in a scientific sector. In other words, we will achieve two objectives. Instead, what did you do? You're too late. You didn't go any further. You have just given it to the competent body of "ELGO - DIMITRA" in November and it has been consulted. My calculations tell me he'll be late for another year. And you know what you can do at the end? You can give it to private procedures, for example, in order to achieve at the end that logic you want. You talked about a lot. You didn't talk about liquidity. Because farmers, today we are talking about, cannot go into programmes as private individuals because they cannot do the same. There's no money, and we have a liquidity problem with the banks. That's why the government has done nothing about the problem. They have not been solved with what you said. We have not seen any change in all these issues. And we have seen no promotion of new, modern, powerful collective structures that do not exist. You spoke just now about milk and the opening of a price lid, which is firmly one to seven. And you're usually telling us that it's a huge price latch, instead of saying what you're doing. Because this opening has unfortunately increased in recent years and it has not been reduced, so the prices in the producer are too great. I said to you before, and we know - and I am closing again with what I have started, because I consider it very important - that, Minister, there should be only one debate on the common agricultural policy in this House. That's the first. Secondly, on the subject of renationalisation, there should be a national line in that in our country we disagree with the tendency to renationalise the common agricultural policy, because this, at a time when our country has enormous budgetary difficulties, will substantially lead to a reduction in the production process. At the same time, you should finally inform and have a debate on what you say to the European Union on all these issues. Because we have seen that other southern countries have clearly said that they will not accept these logics that exist. We have seen some countries that were from old intense pro-agricultural, such as France, raising a question of discussion on one of the two pillars. We disagree on both pillars, namely that there can be this trend of renationalisation. You have not even committed yourself here today. This will have a direct impact on farmers, but it seems that you do not care, because that will apply after 2020. Our country will be committed for a long period after 2020, but in your mind it is how you can make it as clear as possible in relation to the elections, which will come in the next period of time. So all you care about is how you can ensure more happy farmers, according to your logic, because farmers no longer eat spoon. They have understood what policies lead to deadlocks and these policies will condemn them when the time comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u121	The parliamentary representative from Potami, Mr Mavrotas, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Madam President. I'll start with some comparative features. Greece creates five times less value per acre than the Netherlands, despite the excellent Mediterranean climate. Our rural economy has great productivity and competitiveness problems, particularly in relation to countries developed in this area. If our country succeeded in achieving the set-offs of the Netherlands, the total contribution to the rural economy, to GDP, of 7.3 billion today, would exceed 40 billion. The fragmented lot and the lack of standardisation are key reasons behind the low added value of Greek agricultural products. Great obstacles to the development of agricultural production are also smuggling, unfair competition, illegal Greekisation and unnecessary imposition of excise duties. In order to remember some small lies, the Prime Minister at the PM on 9-9-2017- will not go to 2015- announce the abolition of excise duty on wine on 1-1-2018. Today we have 26-1-2018 and the excise duty on wine is still here. Seven hundred winegrowing enterprises, two hundred thousand winegrowers, twenty thousand directly workers in the winemaking sector, these are the people who have been affected since the first time the excise duty has been imposed on wine. The Greek wine-growing industry is making a great contribution to the economic recovery of the country, but what should apply to wine-making should apply to all agricultural production, that is to say, the strength in the unit. The fact is that the average Greek lot remains small and linked to continuous subsidies. Only 15% of agricultural products in Greece are produced by cooperatives, while in other countries this reaches 95% to 100%. The sudden death of Greek cooperatives is due to the fact that historically and sexually they did not constitute associations of business producers, but rather more tools for political - and not just rural - of the Greek state. However, there are also bright exceptions, such as the ASEAN cooperative, for example, which was founded in 1917 and currently consists of four hundred members, mainly the production and management of fresh fruit. Six years ago, when the crisis began showing its teeth, citizens from many professions and ages met in ancient Olympia and agreed to take advantage of the miraculous pomegranates of their regions. Today the two hundred forty-three producers - shareholders of "ALFIEOS - ROTI" cultivate a hundred sixty-five thousand trees in two thousand acres in Central Greece and the Peloponnese. They have zero bank lending and their production will reach the eight hundred tons and in one or two years it will exceed three thousand. And all of this while the state still owes them VAT refunds or does not protect such products of dubious quality that come to our country without control and are baptized Greek. Because we are constantly listening to European money and unexploited subsidies, the European Commission went to the Tower, to the farms and to the factory of the company and honoured this innovative company, which took advantage of European financial instruments and created the most modern unit in the Mediterranean and in Europe. This is really the way, to motivate companies to grow up and to become other companies like this, to unite small producers, to build factories, to diffuse growth, to meet individual responsibility with collectiveity. Another example of the "THESGLA" from Thessaly. One hundred and eighty employees, thirty-seven farms, fifty producers, sixty-three selling points. They've done it against a state that doesn't care if it doesn't sabotage. These new forms of cooperatives, along with producer groups, will determine whether people in the field are finally masters of their property. In the "THESGAL" they started, offering high quality milk and milk products at prices highly competitive. Today, throughout Greece and not only in Thessaly, one will find selected products from Greek producers. What impresses is that along with tradition the "THESGAL" is perhaps the most innovative cooperative in the country, as they track electronically the points of sale, all the movements of their trucks, while each citizen can communicate directly with the press of a button. So the bet that began many years ago with a slogan "We Partner differently!" appears to be won. There must be a truly modern state which will guarantee growth with social justice. In primary production this will be guaranteed by business cooperatives of a new type. But what do we have from the state? As far as insurance is concerned, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has again confused the concept of equality with that of extreme equilibrium downwards. All the arguments about the insurance of farmers were based on the fact that the retention of farmers' contributions must be equal to that of employees. What he forgot, however, is that the employee has a wage, while the farmer has a profit, but also a loss. What he forgot is that the employee's contribution is 2/3 to be borne by the employer, while the farmer's contribution is 100% himself. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Another two minutes, Madam President, please from secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u123	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u124	What he forgot about is that the employee does not take any economic risk, making business investments, while the farmer is taking on and, indeed, important. What he forgot about is that the wager receives a stable monthly income, even this small one he receives, while the farmer is an unstable income, dependent on production, from the weather, from the market, from the customers, who he has to look for to find them. I'll close up with a few suggestions. They have also been heard by our rapporteurs. A national strategy is needed, focusing on incentives to increase agricultural land, support for all competing products, research and innovation by exploiting national and Community resources, and smart processing of agricultural products. phrases such as 'precious agriculture', 'drones','remote agriculture' and'remote agriculture' are heard more and more often in recent years and there are, of course, the most specialized crops, which have a comparative advantage because of the country's biodiversity. I refer to the so-called 'pharmaceutical and aromatic herbs and plants' which can be the raw material for cosmetics, medicines, food supplements, superfoods, etc. And these can be combined with processing in vertically integrated units, as research and development in these issues in Greece is in international leadership. The policy that a few Ministers for Agriculture have tried to design in the past has been the one that has tried to broaden the successful examples of the agricultural sector. It is a difficult project, which has not been followed up, because in the rural world, extensive customer policies have been carried out over time. Behind the anxiety about insurance and taxation, which seems to dominate the roadblocks, there is a concern among people about what they will produce and how. The accident is that not only are there no interlocutors, but they have an awkward and incompetent government to them. So, once again, the need for long-term planning, so that the agricultural sector becomes the head of the country's productive reconstruction, is at risk of going lost through barren controversy. If we do not take advantage of our comparative advantages - and the agri-food sector is one of them - then we are doomed to lose the date with development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that under No 1346/923, as of 26 January 2018, the decision of the President of the Parliament was made under Rule 43A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Special Permanent Committees of the Greek Dissociation, Environment, Research and Technology, Equality, Youth and Rights of Man, Regions, Road Safety, Security and Other Structures of Invitation of Privileges and Monitoring of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights for the Third Settlement Period. The decision in question has been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting. [[The abovementioned Decision is hereby entered in the Minutes and read as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] To enter pages 172-180
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u126	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Papadopoulos, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Theodorakis, you said you'd sit down and listen to me, but you're leaving. I wanted to say: How is a new party, like yours today, asking a timely question with an old PASOK? After you ask the question together, you have to take the PASOK mistakes and the PASOK's good ones, otherwise you don't have to ask them a question without taking on the obligations. The truth is, after 1981, the PASOK was, in fact, a party which for farmers was the 'green' party and won the majority of farmers. He did two very simple things. He made the law for the cooperatives that abolished authorisations. Then they went and voted with permission to the cooperatives. Then all the progressive people came in, the leftists entered, because we were excluded from the cooperatives and we did what all the progressive powers did, so we were called then. And then he did the industrialisation of agricultural production. This PASOK after 1990 died. There isn't. And don't call that PASOK now. Then you're the remula's PASOK, you're the PASOK of destruction. We've felt you all the farmers for what you did and what you didn't do. And where should I start? You talked about sugar. But you destroyed the biggest industry in the country. We had two hundred and fifty thousand tons and they went toward the three hundred. Now we can't do 50 tons. We're scared. They're trying to nail and tooth-tooth the Ministry and our ministers to keep from the two factories at least one, so that we don't lose the logging. And you're coming and leaving us for customs? How can we withstand this criticism? This thing can't be done. Instead of coming over to put back on how we're going to save the logging that you've done away with, you're also criticizing us. Let's go a little bit further. What did you do with New Democracy? You billed all the cooperatives, the flagships. Where should I start and where should I finish? You know them. And you are now giving us the financing of the primary sector, when you sold the sole donor, the Agricultural Bank, with 90 million. You got loans of 90 million - lending and unscrupulously - but 90 million more took New Democracy, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u128	The parties took 150 million, not 90 million from the Agricultural Fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u129	Whatever they got. If we had these tools now, would we be talking about funding instruments today? Because my colleague said so well here, Mr Theocharopoulos: 'How will you finance them?' Of course we need financial instruments. Did we have them? Oh, no. Now we're trying with the Development Bank to do it. We have now made the Farmer's Card to give a liquidity. So, what are you giving us up for? For something that you destroyed, that you left, not land burned, but coal on, that you can't catch? And how do you manage all these issues? You had the flagship of PASPEGES. That's where you found them. In fact, all these years of PASOK and New Democracy had cooperation that was exemplary! What did we do? We did things the farmer saw in his pocket. We have resolved the issue of spatial controls. Where farmers would pay refunds or recoveries, we solved the issue of spatial controls. We solved the issue of 10% in the improvement plans. We solved the issue of grassland, so farmers took the subsidies. That's nothing, because you remember when everyone had to get paid? Since 2008, since 2009, since 2010 and now, in 2017, almost everything has been paid. Is that nothing? Who did it? Of course it's farmers' money. It was the farmers' money, which was programmed, and they had to take it away. And they all got them. I don't want to say the amount. I think the Minister said so. We must now go to the legislative things we have done. One of these is the law for cooperatives, for agricultural, forest cooperatives. They're huge bills. We got into the matter of forest maps. A huge issue for rural development. We're entering the Stock Exchange now. A few days ago we passed the bill on energy cooperatives, so that we could zero the cost. We are now doing all this at a place and time that is very difficult. You say we have tax and tax and income cuts. I read that the income declared in 2015 - according to what the farmers said - was 1.3 billion. Now, according to the farmers themselves again, it is 1.6 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u130	From what source? You should testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u131	From the Treasury. Ask the Treasury to testify. Are you going to tell me all this? So much. Is it a little? Could it be more? This is another issue that we can discuss. You cannot say that we now have an increase in income while, when you were in the government, we had terrible reductions. Europe had a 15% increase, and here we had a 20% reduction. How can you say that the agricultural income was reduced? I'm not saying it's all right. We've already planned too many things to do. The big bet for us ahead is the new common agricultural policy. The second big bet is to change the relationship between plant and animal in favour of animal production to go to dynamic products. In particular, we have set a target for livestock farming and as you have seen, the Minister is looking for livestock farming. We have a lot of things to do in front of us. We need allies. We have a vision, we have a schedule, but we had an economy set up. You're asking us to fly. Slowly, it's time to fly. Fortunately, if SYRIZA is well, we should have the Prime Minister well, because I heard here that you are making designations. Let us be a little more careful about the characterizations, because it is easy for me to make designations and say the thousand two for each of us. You should know we have a vision. The problems are here, and the road will be up for us. In front of us is the big issue of the cost of oil, not so much of PPC's current, because some policies have been made. Here's a big bet of ours. We have to see what happens with supplies, especially medicines, because there are some toys we need to see and we will see them. The future is ahead and it belongs to us and we will be here to deal with it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u132	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Fotini Arabaji, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Minister and Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, it seems that the three years of governance of SYRIZA - ANEL, for the three years with lies, callous promises and, of course, stupid ones, have not arrived here today, in the House, to tell us once again that the New Democracy has taxed agricultural subsidies. Well, Minister, I challenge you to bring in and present a statement to the National Representation to prove that we have today taxed agricultural subsidies, a tax statement, so that we can end these lies. From what I understood, Minister, from your speech and from what I have read in your recent interviews with the ERT and the newspaper 'HAGI', farmers should probably celebrate - the Minister is leaving, it is okay, I hope he will read it out of the Minutes - and thank you for what you have kept them with your policies, because, from what you have said, he paid EUR 50 million less taxes this year than your very good policies! But, Minister, you're cooking the numbers to cover up the truth. First, make up your mind. Did they pay less or didn't they pay? Because if they said more, as Mr Papadopoulos says here, they would obviously have to pay more, after you increased the rates of taxation from 13% to 22.45%.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u134	Less.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u135	So because, Mr Papadopoulos, we are talking about evidence, these are the evidence of the Ministry of Finance, which you know is proof of? They show that the agricultural income on your government's day has been reduced by 9.1 points more than any professional category. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Do you know what EUROSTAT, Mr. Papadopoulos and Mr. Undersecretary? Because I read that Mr Apostlelos celebrates that EUROSTAT says that Greek agricultural income has increased over your days. You're probably wrong in columns and you're reading in 2014 and 2015. Because for 2016 EUROSTAT data - I am tabling it in the Minutes - show that unfortunately nine points of agricultural income has been reduced. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In fact, our farmers have paid fewer taxes. Why did that happen? Why have you rejected agricultural income, because tax declarations have been cut and, in order to save your tax revenue, farmers have moved their rights to children and relatives. The most serious thing is that the black economy has escalated and there has been an intensification of producers for more production. Why do the producers say to you "Why should we cultivate more, since most of the income ends up - where - to the modern big shareholder of each agricultural holding and, of course, to every Greek company, which is of course no other than insurance funds and taxation". That is the truth, Mr Ministers, no matter how much you like to hide it. You will allow me to say a word about the insurance of farmers. I did not hear an answer from the late Minister of State, Mr Apostleu, to tell us whether he is aware of the seventeen thousand applications for retirement of the born in 1950, which had to have been paid in accordance with the old New Democracy system for seven months, because the seven thousand pensioners have been unpaid. Can you give an answer for these? On the other hand, we have seen Mr Apostolos here celebrating the rapid absorption of the Rural Development Programme and, of course, congratulating him there in Volos. First of all, I would like to say that we measure them with indicators, Mr Ministers, and not with statements made in fora and in meetings. Indicators say that we are below average, at 24%, while other countries are already at 35%. The substance, however, is that, as far as the Rural Development Programme is concerned, you are dispersing it with what is known as SYRIZA. Who are these? Rushphetological policy, grant policy, anti-development approach and landlocking. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need two more minutes, like everyone else, please. Do you know why I'm saying "accidentality"? Go out, if you have the daring, tomorrow to the farmers and say 'we of the 950 million we have in total for the balancing compensation have already spent 550'. What will you pay for 2019? Will you leave empty funds to the next one? Go out and tell them you spent all this. Go out and say that the most famous uptakes you celebrate are nothing but early retirement, compensatory compensation and various agri-environmental measures. Get out and say that from a million four hundred thousand payments, which you say, and so much congratulate you, 70% are committed in the previous programme. This is what you have to say, Minister. Of course, the most developmental part of the Rural Development Programme, what gives the flow to the national economy - improvement plans, groups and producer organisations, processing and marketing - were either just now being announced, which means that they have not been completed, that they have not become all right or have problems because of the traditional problems of the information system, and of course as regards the measures that give added value, such as agricultural consultants, knowledge and innovation - which, incidentally, Mr Minister, you are advertising it as a tool to reduce production costs - you are not telling us that of the 292 million that we have left to you, you have done 250 million, which is why you have them in the drawer. I shall also say a word about direct payments. Yes, Minister, you are the government that, in this way, I want you to ensure a very unpleasant surprise to farmers: the 8.5% reduction which in many cases has reached 10%, because in this way I want you to make two linear reductions in favour of the national reserve. And I ask you this. Because otherwise you've been drinking water. Is that the double reduction that you have made legitimate? Since October I asked you a question, you haven't answered it. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And if this linear reduction were lawful, why does OPEKEPE go out and return them in December 2017? I'm putting this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course there has also been a reduction in the aid for the associated aid, because whoever is obviously coming to your office and tells you about a crop, you also give a coupled aid. I would like to remind you, Minister, that the related aid must have a targeted approach, such as the one it had in previous governance, by giving coupled aids to customs farming, whose producers of course you also owe them a year - for the first time in the years - the production of 2017, the producers you promised through Mr. Haritsis's sweet Christmas and made black New Years, the producers you said you would open up the factories for election, and now you do not have time to see the resignations of administrative boards. As far as the long-standing liquidity is concerned, Mr Minister, do not say in interviews here, from the Step forward, about the Cartas Farmer. Go out and explain to the Greek farmers because we are the only country in the European Union that does not have access to the bank lending of the Yunker package for the agri-food sector. There to give answers. Now, of course, for the absence of our country from income recovery opportunities for producers, such as extreme weather phenomena, a crisis in the various product markets, what can I say? It's raining, Minister, and you're holding an umbrella! There are many examples! In conclusion, I cannot support - and I thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance - the harmful indifference you display in the critical discussions on the new CAP. So I ask you here, Minister: why are you absent from all the ministers' meetings from negotiating the new CAP? Why have you been absent from Tallinn, from Brussels in December 2017, where the French Minister for Rural Development was present, with whom we traditionally have an alliance? How do you answer fora when you show up? What are the positions of the Greek Government on the new common agricultural policy when we have in front of us a reduction in the Community agricultural budget due to Brexit, immigration and terrorism, because of the countries of Visegrad? These are challenges from such countries that the previous governance has had and it has succeeded with its negotiating sensitivity to get over 3 billion more and to have 20 billion today. What do you tell them? Do you know what you're doing, Minister? As in any other time, for internal consumption, you are supposed to disperse a news about the redistribution of historical rights, causing social automation between young and old farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u136	Mrs. Arabatzis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u137	I'm done, Madam President. So if you want to redistribute rights, why didn't you make use of the Omnibus regulation that enabled you to renegotiate the CAP in 2018? Why are you just lying, Minister, and you're trying to cover up your other uncertainties. In conclusion, I would like to ask: with the agricultural mobilisation of farmers throughout the country rise. Do you know what their demands are, Minister? It is the tax burden, the reduction in production costs and the price of oil, the level of their insurance contributions, the auctions in their fields and their real estate. These are the issues that are supposed to have solved your government. So what are you going to do with this, Minister? Will you hold a dialogue or will we see Greece again in two, which the New Democracy certainly does not favour or want? We would like a concrete answer for the agricultural mobilisations. Thank you very much for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u138	I'm tolerant, but don't abuse. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to you: (a) Protocol No 1361/933 of 26 January 2018 to the decision of the President of the Parliament: ‘Recommendation and establishment of the Committee on the State's accounts and general balance sheet and control of the implementation of the State's budget’ (b) Protocol No 1362/934 of 26 January 2018 to the decision of the President of the Parliament: ‘Recommendation and establishment of the Special Standing Committee on Equipment and Conventions’ (c) Protocol No 1363/935 from 26 January 2018 to the decision of the President of the Parliament: ‘Recommendation and establishment of the Special Standing Committee for the Monitoring of the Social Security System’. The relevant decisions have been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u139	Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Sahinides, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are discussing a question tabled by PASOK and its components. It is a question which I would say has been aroused, because it is the sole objective of those who co-governed or ruled by post-population, and then it was the total destruction of the primary production sector. We've heard a lot of things. We also heard the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative refer to the Agricultural Bank. Here we have this proposal to you, gentlemen of the Ministry of Rural Development, that if you want to give an answer, ask for an inquiry into the sale of the Agricultural Bank, to find out when and why it was sold. If what is being heard is true, that at the bank's pressure, he has just asked for the loan money he gave to PASOK and the New Democracy was sold for a reasonable amount, bring it as a request for a committee of inquiry. To learn the rural world because it does not currently have a very serious tool for development. You will remember, those who have really dealt with agricultural issues that the Agricultural Bank was indeed a lever for growth. All the drugs, the waters for the fields they paid for in the TWG, went by after they delivered their productions through the Agricultural Bank. And after they kept the money, that meant, Minister, that there were no debts from the farmers. Because if they wanted to continue production next year, they had funding from the Agricultural Bank, which they now lack as a tool. You were subsidising farmers for not producing. And here's the real crazy thing. Tell me, what reasonable man would give for free money? Farmers were subsidised to throw away peaches. Every year the fields went down 10 points, for with the peaches they were throwing soil. With the pears coming out, the Aegean should have been grown with peaches. Do you think Europeans are stupid? These policies, which unfortunately continue today by the SYRIZA - ANEL, have reached the agricultural world on the verge of destruction. You increased taxes, increased insurance contributions, abolished tax-free, abolished duty-free oil. While we had self-sufficiency in too many products, we have now come to import everything. I have heard too many of the previous speakers refer to the CAP, the common agricultural policy. What common agricultural policy are we talking about? Here there is only individual agricultural policy in each country. How is it that countries which are industrialised and not agricultural countries to export more agricultural products to Greece than we export them? And - there is in the Minutes of the House - when a delegation from a German Parliament of the respective committee had come to tell them: 'Tell me what Common Agricultural Policy we are discussing when Greece exports 13.3% of agricultural products and imports from an industrial country such as Germany, 13.9%?' What common agricultural policy are we talking about when products produced within the European Union are not protected? The orange can't be sold from ten to twenty minutes and the shelves of the supermarket have orange from Zimbabwe with 1,20 euros. The Greek lemon can't be sold in ten minutes and on shelves we have Hill lemons with 1 euro. You do not protect the productions produced within the European Union. They referred to the cooperatives. In fact, SYRIZA's parliamentary representative played PASOK by saying that the cooperatives were created thanks to PASOK. And your own co-government, Minister, has come to abolish the forced cooperatives, where of the twenty were four healthy pan-Hellenics. You abolished the Samos and Santorini winemaking cooperative. You abolished the forced cooperative for Chios mastic and Kosanis crocodile. These cooperatives, which have been operating for many years, should be cooperative standards. You're destroying what's right. Let's move on to the payroll. How did you expect, Minister, there to be a quick reimbursement of compensation when an ELGA corresponds to three counties? And I'll bring as an example what I know, and I've told you several times. In my area, an ELGA office in a prefecture like Imathia is responsible for both Pieria and Pella. They are three counties that are mountain, mountain, and plain. There is no possibility of a direct record of damage. In July, for the first time, your administration delayed the process of closing farmers' applications for retirement. What are we talking about? The compensation of the farmers for bluetongue? What do you want to talk about in the peaches? When a Member of Parliament from Pella asked you what you are going to do in order to be able to strengthen the price of table peach, falsely - unfortunately for you, Minister - you said there would be aid from the PES. That's not true. Because the MAGPs can only contribute to theories. So put forward what I said to you - you have been missing, Minister - the proposal for a committee of inquiry on the sale of the Agricultural Bank, to give light now. You mentioned that you are approaching farmers. There is a serious problem here, Minister. How do you approach them? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. Greek products have become uncompetitive and this has to do with tax, insurance, with the abolition of duty-free duties on oil and with the fact that agricultural supplies, whether they are fertilisers or medicines, are now the most expensive ones. We have even heard from the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman for the two sugar factories that have remained in Greece. And it was said so confidently - and here I would expect a placement from you - that one of them will remain. What will that be, Minister? [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] In Greece, sugar beet may be more expensive, but keep in mind that Polish products have less sugars. So basically the Greek sugar beet comes out much cheaper. Do an investigation and ask them to hand it over from the sugar factories, whether they are viable or not. My information from the farmers in my area is that it is sustainable. And tell us when they will finally be paid. You have destroyed everything that has to do with it - and you are unfortunately continuing the work of previous governments - with the primary production sector. I would like to add here that farmers are concerned. In fact, I have received a letter and you have received it, Mr Minister, on a recent interview, on 15 January on radio 104, where you said that farmers will soon be compensated. However, farmers have the following questions, which require an immediate answer. When will they be compensated without making statements? Will Imathia and Pella be compensated, or is this also the case for other counties? After a announcement didn't come out, how will they plead? That's what farmers are asking. How do the findings come without the peasants going to the land, Minister? What varieties will be compensated? Here without a visit by ELGA, a press release called "defaults on the damage to Imathia and Pellas peaches" came out and writes ELGA: "The fruit observed and the qualitative deterioration of the fruits are not immediate damage and are not covered in insurance". I have told you several times, Minister, that you should change the Rules of Procedure of the ELGA. And that is what I know, and I have told you on several occasions, and it is done with the agreement of your Ministry with the farmers themselves. Last update of the ELGA Regulation has been made since 2008. It's got to be done right away. Also on the press release about the damage to peaches, the answer was that the qualitative deterioration of the fruit is not immediate damage, as I told you. All this will have to be answered. What do farmers want? Compensation rules, adoption of a Joint Ministerial Decision, disclosure to CVT, notification of damages, statements of farmers and immediate assessment and payment. Indeed, what they ask urgently is that the compensation procedure should be initiated in the same way, because of the Russian embargo that the farmers have made and been destroyed. In conclusion, a very serious question posed by farmers is how, in your own statements, damages will be paid in 2017, while outstanding damages have been pending since 2014, 2015 and 2016. Here I come to tell you that only Golden Dawn has one, indeed, national programme for the development of the primary sector. We alone have to give solutions, because, unfortunately, for you, we are the only ones who can and are coming close to the farmer, to the farmer, and we learn the problems, and they suggest solutions to the problems they face. Only one national government of the Golden Dawn will be able to give impetus to the primary production sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u141	Mrs Diamanto Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u142	The problems of agriculture have not arisen now and suddenly. Some of them are old and acidified, but they are now added and of course they have the common cause of the memorials and the new CAP, where you are all inclined and you are not questioned. You may argue that we are getting money from the European Union, but the large majority, 80%, goes to the rich and remains about 20% to go to small and medium-sized farmers. That is why the Community's resources have not been blocked by the dismantling of small and medium-sized farms. At the same time, they are being provided through programmes for the destruction of productive forces, such as the shrinking of peat farming and the sugar industry - and, of course, it did not start now, since 2008, it has started this more drastically, but you did not stifle it, you did not go against it - such as tobacco growers, fish-cream burning and others. But what does the debate on the renationalisation of the CAP mean? That the European Union's resources for agriculture are being reduced, because more money wants to go and send for the Eurostrain and equipment and you must not shut it down. Of course, the common agricultural policy is being reacted to in order to finance the removal through national funds, which, if you wish, also strengthens inequality and inequality. But all of this serves the common objective of the European Union, namely economic growth with the prevalence of large capitalist rural exploitation through the destruction of small and medium-sized enterprises. In fact, you are all slandering anyone who disputes and conflicts with this policy. What unites you with a thread is the CFP and this - if you like - is seen in the measures taken and in the tools used by all urban governments. You have a continuity in the anti-popular hardship against the small- and medium-sized layers of the village. For example, the Farmers’ Register that declassified the farmer’s status to hundreds of thousands of tiny hectolitres was a decision by the New Democracy and PASOK. And it continued more aggressively than the current SYRIZA government, stricting the terms and new hundreds of thousands of tiny people were deleted, no longer considered farmers. Although they practice agriculture, they will be deprived of the few subsidies they have received, because they have the disadvantage of being poor, and they have to make other cuts to fill the agricultural income, which is not enough to live. So these people are forced out of the way. This brings earth and production to large ones, who become even larger. And I'm telling you, you have tools. It is precisely these older people who are interested in both your agro-food programs and the cooperatives that have been transformed into capitalist companies. That's how it's done in capitalism. But remind me of HISPIA in the field. When was it introduced? In 2014. SYRIZA, of course, said he would be abolished, but not only keeps him, he's already increased. He's like the memorials you said you'd cut them off, but you're expanding them. In fact, the third memorandum, which had measures that hit farms, voted together, but today you are protesting about them, such as the abolition of the special tax on agricultural oil - was in the third memorandum - but also the great increase in VAT on agricultural supplies, increases in agricultural electricity, the environmental ending in irrigation water, spraying and so many other carpets that increase production costs. At the same time, merchants blackmail with open producer prices on products, the repayment goes cloud and the farmer is abandoned in his fate, without basic protection, since you protect only commercial manufacturers and their profitability. Also, the large tax which increased to 26% from the first euro of income and the advance that reached 100% was in the third memorandum that you have all voted on. But small- and medium-sized farmers have succeeded with great struggles and through pan-Hellenic mobilisations and solidarity from the workers and the trade unions and other populaces, to achieve duty-free work like employees. And to say here it wasn't a revolutionary gymnastic at all. On the contrary, it was victory, pain, and it also wants vigilance to keep it. It wants to keep going, because you are going to reduce the tax on both employees and pensioners and farmers. However, as far as the insurance contribution to the OGA is concerned, it has also been delayed. Now with the EFKA merger, the contribution is increased and you are literally grabbing it from the farmers' accounts before they can see what aid has been received. At the same time, agricultural pensions are degraded at sixty-seven levels and lastly there is a great deal of delay in their payment. And you must answer us for that, Minister. This deepens poverty in the farm, which is suffocating the debts and ensuring all the facilities, to speed up the removal of farmers with a tool, of course, and electronic auctions, in danger of losing home, a field, what they have left to live on. They've rightly gone out on the streets, claiming to take back measures that exterminate them. They demand guaranteed prices for products, they are paid immediately by tradition, they do not live in insecurity and uncertainty, they are very large - the ELGA covers and compensates all the losses in production and capital, they are unfair to the poor - and the determination of individual duty-free 12 000 euros and 3 000 euros for every child, the abolition of ENPI in the field, but also the major increases in insurance contributions and the establishment and an irreversible limit of 12 000 euros, so that no seizures of houses and land for'red' loans are made. They do not request aid, as you say, Minister, in interviews. Stop taking the bite from their mouths with this policy, so they can survive, that's what they're asking. Speaking of which, for their demands, you didn't say anything. And the whole society must listen to what you say and whether it is fair - which we believe is fair - we need the support of the whole society. It is no coincidence that they are gathered out of taxes, banks, ELGAs etc., and they call slogans "not in the seizures of fields, homes, bank accounts". Is that unfair? But for their survival we're talking about. We say this clearly, for the Communist Party of Greece a solution is the force of joint action between the self-employed in the city and the countryside, but conflict with the European Union, capital and their governments. This road is not easy. It has sacrifices, however, they take place on a conditional release from the European Union and, of course, socialisation of the land, capitalist farms, concentrated means of production, strengthening state infrastructure and state trade and, of course, integration into the central scientific design for the production of quality products, covering the food and other needs of the people. At the same time we say that the agricultural production cooperative of small-scale farmers as a transitional stage can operate and reduce production costs by means of common cultivation methods and care for the collection of products, of course by making better use of productive powers. This is how a solution is given to the smallly fragmented rural micro-ownership and ensures popular prosperity and not torn apart and misery. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. I will begin with a phrase that my colleague has said from PASOK or Democratic Co-responsibility or recently from KINA. He's changed so many names that he's confusing us now. You know, I've said it before, who often change names. Usually, those who are not proud of their past or want to hide from something. He said, "Give me a promise to the Greek people." You know, it brought me to mind: Because I turn around and I meet with friends, people out in the countryside, because I am a member of the countryside of Thessaloniki, do you know what citizens are asking us to promise? That we won't do what those two parties did. They say "promise us that you will not do either what PASOK has done or what New Democracy has done". This promise is made by the citizens to give us and by the actions we show that we do not follow this path. Reading the question, I say this: When colleagues wrote this question, they were probably looking at the mirror and addressing themselves. They say at some point: The interest shown by young people in engaging in agriculture is not being exploited, etc. ........................................ When we entered the EEC in 1981, agriculture was 23% of GDP or, in absolute terms, the yield of agriculture was EUR 10.5 billion. In 2014, when they handed over these two parties, which ruled forty years, agriculture had shrinked from 23% to 3%. 3% has been reduced to a GDP that has escaped normality since 2009. He had shrinked by 25%, which means he was under 3%. And then they talk about incentives to increase production and introduce young farmers? But they have driven young farmers out, and this government with the measures it is taking, which I will mention below - of course, both the Minister and the previous colleague from SYRIZA have rightly mentioned - is actually trying to motivate young farmers to get into production. I have also heard that a reference to the NRP has been made, as to what absorption is. Let's say what the absorbance is from this government. It is at 24% of the ESRB for the period 2014-2020, with an average annual absorption of 11.5% of this government, when absorption by the PASOK and New Democracy government was 1.5%. Take care of 11.5% of this government and 1.5% of the previous governments! Also, this government comes first into absorption in Europe, as far as the ESDP is concerned. It says the question below: On the market there is immunity, the government is unable to mobilise control mechanisms to combat Greekism, etc. So many years who didn't take care of Greek products? These governments. They didn't rule? So these parties, which have been ruling for forty years, the place that they haven't done anything forty years and said to this government, which has been running for two and a half years, why didn't it all in two and a half years, what they didn't do in forty years? As far as protection is concerned, I would like to say that this government has brought law, which they know, because we were all here when we discussed it and voted for it. By law, therefore, the Greek consumer now takes milk and knows that this milk has been made by animals that have been milked in our homeland, in Greece or in the meat that will be taken from the butcher, they are from animals that have grown up and slaughtered in Greece. He knows from the products he gets, which is Greek and which is not Greek thanks to this government. The previous governments had taken care of what it had to do with production to hit it. I have said many times from the Step in plenary on the closure of the Agricultural Bank, which was the lever of agricultural development and, indeed, was the farmer in his efforts to produce, to develop. They hung up. And you know why she was closed down, ladies and gentlemen? I've denounced it another time. For these two parties owed 150 million to the Agricultural Bank. Look out, their debts are more. It is 230 to 240 million New Democracy and 220 million PASOK. Of these debts, 150 million were sold to the Agricultural Bank and the Rural Bank for 90 million! If they operated honestly and intended to pay their debts, why did they give it under their own debts 60 million? We need to look into this sometime. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll take the time of my dentistry, Mr. President. So I will answer what has happened. In order to ensure loans, they had promised state subsidies. In 2014, the two parties voted for an amendment which made inappropriate grants already promised. That's in the Criminal Code. Do you know what it's called? Demolition of creditors. That's what the two parties did, and once the Agricultural Bank sent them out of court and filed them, they sold it in twenty days! That is honesty, and that is how these two parties were ruling, which are now talking about increasing production. He said another colleague: 'What do you do for productivity, production, etc.''.'. The results are already shown by this government. Let us see what the previous governments have done, because this government has received a mess, not only in agriculture but in all areas. What did the two parties do? They were subsidising farmers, first to take their produce to the dumps. In the prefectures, in Thessaloniki, in my county, what did they do? We are talking about fruits, peaches and apples. It was mostly with peaches that happened. They were subsidised to take the peaches to the dumps. They were subsidising farmers to scrape out the vineyards. They were subsidising other farmers to leave tobacco production. They were subsidising tobacco producers to stop producing tobacco. They were subsidising farmers to cut the almonds to stop the production of almond. They were subsidising fishermen, destroying and cutting their bones. That was the contribution of these parties to production. Can anyone take this as a contribution to production and, above all, to the primary sector? Of course, they did not only take care of the primary sector. They also took care of the processing. There have been too many industries. On Thessaloniki and in general Macedonia we had many processing industries for agricultural products, which were, in fact, exemplary. In other words, after production, we had vertically, processed and disposed of products. All this is closed. I refer to Lagada and other regions, such as Sindo, etc. We are talking about factories and exemplary processing industries that have been closed down. Many of them were cooperative. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and also for the excellent work he has done. I am talking about 'BIOHALCO', '3E', etc. "BIOHALCO" is 7% of the country's total exports. That was their contribution to the economy of the country. I will give you some examples, ladies and gentlemen, to see what these two parties in agriculture have done. We had 12 and a half thousand tons of annual production in legumes. Do you know in December 2014, ladies and gentlemen, when they handed over how much it was? From 12 and a half thousand tonnes of legume production - and we speak of excellent quality, of drainage fields, of mountain and of semi-finished crops - they brought it down to two and a half thousand tonnes. We're talking about an incredible catastrophe in the crop. Listen to the sesame, because on the island of Thessaloniki we have the traditional hood of Thessaloniki, the hamburger, the pastel, which depends on the production of sesame. Sesame production in 1980 was seven and a half thousand tonnes. Our annual needs are eight and a half thousand tons. From seven and a half thousand tons, do you know in 2014 where production went down? Forty tons. That was their contribution to production.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u146	Yeah, I'm finishing up, but I'm taking my dentistry too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u147	There's no dentistry, Mr. Comrade. You have tolerance. Neutrality is not anticipated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u148	Very good. Previously, my colleague from the Communist Party spoke for twelve minutes. I just completed nine and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u149	Mrs. Manolaku spoke for ten minutes. You have tolerance too. I'm telling you, we don't have a dentistry. I'm not telling you anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u150	In less than a minute, Mr President. As far as fisheries are concerned, you know that in Thessaloniki we have the blessing, the privilege if you like, to have a large fishing fleet but also very large exports to shellfish, so I have had the opportunity to speak with people. And we have the largest fish auction in Greece and one of the largest fish auctions in Europe. Recently on a visit I made, I had the opportunity to speak with people. What people have said is that, so many years from the decisions and bills of previous governments, we are talking about PASOK and New Democracy, it has become such a field from the bills, in terms of fishing, which no one can be sure of. We're starting with royal decrees, we're going to bills, we're going to ministerial decisions, and they're all bringing them as a symphony, without canceling anything before. It is now called the port manager or the one responsible for controlling them and not knowing what is happening. You see that this government has taken care to ensure producers with the sixty days of repayment. This is a big deal, because it binds both of the invoices notified, so no one can violate that. We are talking about the 'farmer's Card', about the repayment of the debts that this government has taken care of since 2008. There have been debts since 2008. And this is where I close. We are talking about forest maps, which close a very large chapter in which many farmers and farmers have been afflicted by forest cooperatives and agricultural cooperatives in cleansing. We will now be dealing with healthy cooperatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Minister, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, we have come here today to answer the questions of the question, the problems faced by farmers and farmers, but also the plan that this government has for the primary sector. Before, however, the plan which the Minister has analysed is a great, really, the challenge for some questions in the specific document called the question, for which Mr Lazarides rightly said: were you looking in the mirror when you wrote it? I have in front of me the text of the New Democracy Programmatic Convergence, PASOK - DIMAR in 2012, as far as the primary sector is concerned, agriculture. 'Agricultural Bank. Recapitalise and reorganise this. Conservation of the agricultural mortgage portfolio’. These were written in the programming convergence of the three parties. Where is the Agricultural Bank? Are you working for the farmers? And now, with your question, do you give us a resignation for what solution we will give for the red agricultural loans? I'm sorry, it's unbelievable. Let's move on. Impossible. It has been heard from many aspects, particularly the Antipopulation, but it is also the question. 'We ask for irresponsible'. The President of the Movement of Change, Democratic Reconciliation, PASOK, said so. Either way, it's the old PASOK. They're confusing us with the names. A party that has deep roots has said to the rural world. 'We ask for the irresponsible'. To get it over with and clear it up, by law of 2014 the spokesman's personal view is that, in fact, because he did not pay the public, the aid was inappropriate. With a circular by Mr. Brutsis on 29-8/-014 he instructed the OGA: "Please do as you set off" and he raised a storm of questions from MPs of co-population with Mr. Aygeakis first. Until then - I repeat - the subsidies were incomprehensible. And he asks, "Do you intend, Mr Brutsi, to withdraw the circular 29212/29-8-2014, according to which the State may retain payments from the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund?". Excuse me, Mr. Brutsis is owned by SYRIZA, the Independent Greeks? What's the question of which party? And today you're coming here talking about impotence? Does the President of your party come in and mention "we seek incompatibility with subsidies", when he was created with a circular of your own governance? Thirty-five Members of the New Democracy ask Mr Brutsi to withdraw the circular. I'm presenting all the questions. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Vassilis Kokkalis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We continue with the New Democracy Programme Convergence, PASOK - DIMAR. It states: 'References to the marketing and marketing of products with a view to protecting the producer and the consumer'. Let's see who, in fact, by a law that you voted for and voted for, he serves the interests of farmers or not, because at some point we have to say things by their name. What does the law, which you voted on in Article 2, say? ‘In sixty days the invoice must be paid.’ What did L.4152/2013 say in sub-paragraph G4? ‘Unless expressly agreed’. What does that mean? The provision you have voted on, is compulsory law, that even if it is expressly agreed, even though we do not anticipate it, this agreement is invalid, while in your law it was opening, not just a window, a door to agree otherwise. Now, frankly, you must admit that it is indeed the law that you have voted on, that really protects the income of farmers and that is not a party claim, but it is a legal claim. It has been open door to deviate from the sixty days from 'unless explicitly agreed', which has been removed. We continue with the programme agreement PASOK, New Democracy, PIMMAR: "Modernisation and consolidation of cooperatives". Did you see from 2012 to 2015 a serious legislative initiative, which concerns the restructuring and modernisation of cooperatives? It is known that most cooperatives did not, in fact, respond to the purpose for which they had been founded. You refer to your question 'with the abolition of the OGA'. I present a 2013 post, which is why Mr Lazarides said: 'When you wrote this question, you were looking in the mirror? Was it others?’ - which says: "All pensions from a single fund. The proposal provides for accession to the new IKA, OGA, EAFRD and OSH.’ I'm presenting it. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Vassilis Kokkalis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And you are saying today in the question 'with the abolition of the OGA'. We're on. The greatest damage these parties have done is not the mistakes and omissions they have done over the years, but the absence of a real plan for the reconstruction of the primary sector. It was absent from your government for a specific support plan. You have never shown the way to farmers, how the farmer will be competitive. Our plan is based on the organized farmer. It was a fair request, and it was done. No one disputes that producer groups over our own governance, from 2015 until today, have taken flesh and bone. The producer groups and organisations shall also be subject to the Rural Development Programme. In the question 'how do you as the Ministry of Rural Development help healthy cooperation?' We respond that our plan is based on the trained farmer, the producer farmer. That is why we introduced his tax-free farm, with article 44 of Law No.4389/2016. This is what I believe is the big, fundamental difference of your own governance with ours. You have never dealt with fundamental problems of Greek agriculture. You have never dealt with the role of the farmer, what kind of farmer we want, if we want a farmer - a producer, who said that our position is in favour of the producer, in relation to aid, being trained but also certified. You've never been involved in showing the way to the farmer to connect to the market. Ask your villages how many farmers do not wonder every year 'what are we going to sow this year?' Why do they wonder? For the reason that they do not know the customer, the market and the market are not aware of the producer. You have never dealt with fundamental problems of Greek agriculture, to show the way to the farmer, how he can be competitive, truthfully, without populism and without sharing money to dismantle the blockages, as was the case in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, you will have the floor for your seconds. Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, listening to the positions, in particular of the political leadership, on the major issue we are discussing, which is the primary sector, I have the impression that they have not understood what they have done in the agricultural sector. And because I have listened to extreme expressions, I would like to reply to some of them. I know that PASOK hurts you, because in the conscience of the Greek farmers it has gone to their collective memory that they experienced the best days and experienced them, not only because the Mediterranean Integrated Programmes were established, not just because they did the cooperative law, but because they made the farmer an equal Greek citizen. Nor should you forget that you are no longer a white glue, that you are at the beginning of the 1980s, say "so much lente so much sesame", produced by the country at that time. The country jumped ahead. Five times the GDP. We have a farmer who's a businessman. You're talking about a farmer who went with a donkey then to produce. And we come and listen from the other side and for remorse. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we have said this on several occasions that if you want to talk at this level, we should discuss it. We have also proposed to you a committee of inquiry, to see from 2001 until your own governance, the first eight months, what has happened all these years. Why don't you do it? Do you want me to talk about what yours are today stumbled in relation to development, since you have now made gambling politics? Do you want to say that every week you bring gratifying discharges? And since you are talking about the Agricultural Bank, I should like to tell you that at the time you said that you would create a special-purpose development bank. Where's that bank? Not to mention names at that time to the Agricultural Bank that is next to you and you upgraded them. As far as the Greek Sakharov Prize industry is concerned, something was heard about PASOK. What PASOK? In 2006, Basiakos, with a New Democracy government, abolished 50% of the national quota and closed the plants of Larissa and Xanthi. Are we going to see all this with a flashlight that's going to share the responsibilities where they belong? But PASOK hurts you. It hurts you even because it changes names. From what you are afraid you will not get away with, because you have said a lot to the Greek people in order to get their vote. Especially to Greek farmers have said that you would take them to heaven overnight and today experience the results of your delusion. I would just like to remind the farmers' friends who are listening to us today that when we entered the memoirs in 2010 there was no other policy than the catastrophic policy that led us to the period 2004-2009 in New Democracy - the primary sector did not even hurt him with one euro. On the contrary, we increased the VAT return from 6% to 11% and the refund of the excise oil tax from EUR 120 million to EUR 260 million, to make it competitive, unlike you who have cut all this off. In closing, let's not talk about pasture, Minister. For this, as for the forest maps, and for all of this we will have time to talk. I will only stand at one point - and close with that - which is important. With regard to the "Production Reconstruction" programme you brought - and thank you for bringing the paper here and submitted to the Minutes - my position as head of the debate back there, representing the Democratic Reconciliation, was that we took it this morning to place it at the same time and I stressed that in general you describe what your Memorandum of Understanding says.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u155	If you'll excuse me, I had sent it to you from the day before, but they gave it to you this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u156	You remember I got it in the morning. I stressed, however, that I would accept this as a positive one if it were to come with additional policies by the agricultural sector from your Ministry. Since then, nothing! We're lost! Finally, Mr Minister, because no one should play with the aid at all communication, you did so at your conference in Komotini. We put that aside. Let's see what happens after 2020. Because a lot is being heard here, I would like to say that, first of all, what the European Community is planning for the strategic planning of the CAP in terms of pillar 1 and pillar 2 - where you seem to have accepted it - I would like to have a debate. In the Committee on Production and Trade I will bring this debate to the attention of you and tell us what you have accepted and not, because it is a major issue at this point in time where our country and the European Community budget are because of Brexit. There will be intentions of renationalization. We should be careful about any proposal. I do not think, indeed, why the New Democracy disagrees with you, because Mr Kefaloyannis intervened and stated at the time that the European People's Party with a text of positions says, which were in the form of a cross-cutting text and adopted last September, first throughout Europe, the objectives for the future of the common agricultural policy. So I ask you this. Evidently Mr Kefaliannis did not understand what the People's Party combined and submitted to the European Commission. It is therefore a question of informing. So far there has been no information, Minister. We don't know who you're negotiating, what your proposals are, what you're planning. In conclusion, I would like to say something about this important area that is the primary sector. The Undersecretary said earlier about what we're going to grow. It is not that farmers do not know what they will grow. It is that whatever the tax raid and the tax-payer on the other hand, plus that they are unprotected, leave them without income and cannot survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, you have given eight minutes for dentistry. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u159	Interesting things are being said, Mr. Colleague. The tolerance of the Bureau is therefore justified. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. The old joke over mighty Soviets that "and you torment blacks" most of us know it. The Minister knows that, too. The government and their partners, in their inability to respond to the essential issues we have raised, return to the well-known "and you have destroyed Greece". But, Minister, in the three decades that we made decisive contributions to developments, both in the 1980s and in the 1990s and 2000s, they knew when they were having a good time and when the knot arrived. I feel that what your partner's representative said is a strict criticism of you, because you took Mr. Pantalakis and put him in the Attica Bank. For good reason, then, you have not done anything right. However, because, Mr President, time is too short, I have remained in the debate because I wanted only to raise one issue and call on the Minister to pay attention from here and beyond what he is going to say. Because if it does not correct what it says, I will have to answer Mrs Fotio's question, the well-known question, rhetoric, but is answered if necessary. The Minister, therefore, because he does not know, has adopted a view given to him by the Treasury - because, if he knows, it is his fault double - that we who destroyed the country had taxed agricultural subsidies. And where did he support it? It was based on a circular of 10-6-2015, the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL, which says that in the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of Article 29 it is explicitly defined as a profit from business activity all revenues and therefore includes agricultural subsidies. The Minister and the authors of this SYRIZA-ANEL circular have failed to read that the second paragraph of Article 21 of Law 4172 states: "Specially, for the purpose of determining the income from agricultural business activities, income from business transactions includes income from agricultural, poultry, forestry, logging and fishery products." Refers to production revenue. And as all lawyers and taxpayers know, the special provision prevails over general. However, because the SYRIZA - ANELs had to explain why they taxed agricultural subsidies for the first time, they had to charge it to the previous ones, what they did with the third memorandum, to charge the previous ones, as well as the farmers' tax. What did the Minister still read to us? He has read us the circular, which says that farmers and the special and normal arrangements are obliged to submit aggregated statements on invoices and on revenue from subsidies. The centralised situations, Minister, are not tax statements. So please once again ask the Ministry of Finance and your fellow ministers to give you the 2015 tax declarations that you were government, to see whether the subsidies were declared or not. The first time that subsidies were declared as agricultural income, ladies and gentlemen, they were in 2016 because you taxed them. I have referred only to this particular issue, Mr President, because I think that when our ministers and government officials are inaugurating, they must first be, above all, careful, accurate and honest. Because they proved to have nothing to do with honesty and truth. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, is requesting permission from a short-day absence in Belgium for personal reasons from 29 January to 31 January 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u162	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u164	Mr Minister, just a minute because Mrs Arabaji has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u165	Not a minute, Mr. President. As my colleague, Mr Gélez, referred to what the European People's Party backed last November and the positions on the New Common Agricultural Policy, nothing was said about renationalisation. We were barely the ones who, as a European People's Party, voted to increase subsidies in the new common agricultural policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Koutsouko, I have in front of me a circular, clarification, 1116 of Mrs. Savvaidou's report...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u168	Minister, the circular...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u169	No, please. I leave the circulars and tell you the very simple thing: Your partners in the government, thirty Members of the New Democracy, have asked a question on this matter, yes or no, the Minister responsible? That alone indicated your intentions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u170	I told you to bring the 2015 statements. So get them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u171	So we're clear. We have come and with a specific circular we have said that aid up to EUR 12 000 is not taxed, as foreseen by this circular. It's over! I want another matter, before you go, to say. Where do you take the matter of us having the debate on the renationalisation of the agricultural policy? Where?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u172	You didn't answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u173	Where did you two hear from? Please. I mean, that's a great thing. There is no Council of Ministers for Agriculture or a debate on agricultural matters in Europe which does not involve either the Minister or the Secretary-General. We're watching closely. Please - I am not saying this now to you, and to the others who have left, they do not see the relevant debates, the relevant communications - if they want and whenever they want it, and tomorrow I will send you a whole package. But we need to make a few things clear. The debates have started for two years and no decision has been taken. The last text sent to us by the European Commission is a text with proposals that have been drawn up and the subject of the debate is open. From that point on, we've made it clear a thousand times. Because there is a tendency from countries many to renationalise the Common Agricultural Policy through other procedures, not so directly, to enable the Member States, in addition to Community aid, to grant aid, you can also see that we are not able to respond to this process. Well, because this is your concern and we are concerned, in addition to the invitation we have sent you before, you do not remember, you have not found it, there will be a debate on it before our proposals are tabled to the Committee on Production and Trade. It has been said that we do not have a detailed strategic plan. You realize I was trying, as far as possible, to take advantage of the time. Of course, and we do. We are talking about increasing employment, the age of renewal of the agricultural population, restructuring of agricultural production, paying particular attention to sheep and goats, livestock, increasing the competitiveness of material products through the establishment of collective systems. We should sit here for an hour to talk, because we have specific reference to the strategic plan. The issue of the Rural Development Programme has also been raised very much. I will not repeat what we have said. I told you, there's evidence. However, there are also notices which will take place in the next period, such as what you said about irrigation. There was heresy the known one, the process was completed, it would be declared in the next few months. I now come to the advisor's question. Counsellors are not a mere case. He wants procedures, he wants consultation, and at the same time he wants us to be able to build two hundred, three hundred structures across Greece, employing a thousand people who want to serve farmers, get out in the field, go to the stable. It's not a process that can be done from one day to the next. And you realise that that is where we want this procedure to be under the supervision and supervision of the State itself, through its institutions. Honestly, we have been abusing fishing today. We had to talk about fishing, because at least now there is an operational fisheries programme in the Ministry's hands. The Community's resources are 389. We can resurrect about 600 million. It was a pond. We do not have to start the controversy now. I simply say to you that with a more important measure of collecting fishery data - it is a measure that we need to serve to know how we manage fish stocks - measures amounting to 250 million have so far been activated in the fisheries sector. Later, next time, we may be able to say more. I come to the other part which is particularly concerned - as we are in the programmes - young farmers. I've said it and I repeat it. There's been the first division. There have been regions that have not been absorbed. There were regions that had more demands. What should we do, as we are in constant contact and understanding with the region? And you know that the allocation of 37.5% of the resources from the Rural Development Programme to regional self-government was not a small thing. We want to put them in this process too, because they also know the rural area. So we now have four or five regions - I do not remember well - which have not been absorbed. We are obliged to agree - and we have already declared the measure for these regions - to see what money they will make out of there. We have a commitment, we have already retained a percentage.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u174	All right, let's have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u175	When this process is completed, we're going to the next phase, which is to see the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u176	...improvement plans...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u177	Please. Are we going to be proclaiming now and leaving people out, when after a while it turns out that they have money, and we couldn't get it? Everything comes in a row. So wait for the other farmers who are implicated too. A lot of them will join.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u178	What timeline do you have for the perpetrators?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u179	There will be an end to the process with those who are in the regions which have been reopened and in the next few months, that is, at least in three or four months, and we will see what is left of it and which will be declared as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u180	"Ask me May to eat a clover" is this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u181	And because they don't get to meet all the needs, we're trying to find ways to secure additional sums to cover as much as possible. I now come to the cooperatives. I did not understand why you were abandoning us for cooperatives, when we revealed what the reality is, and when we with the framework law that we have brought, it is not just that we want to put the cooperatives on a normal footing, but that we want to move a little further. That's where I said it again. You said it in your promises, in the brochure of the cooperation you had with the Rural Bank. Forget about her now! You do not need to talk now about liquidity and about what we are doing in rural areas, when we already sold it out. So we come to the other part of the co-operatives. We are making a great effort here, because we want to protect the rural area which is supposed to be committed to the clearer so that it does not get into a laundry process. And we're making a great effort and we're gonna make it. So don't tell us about that. Now I'll tell you what used to happen to the cooperatives. Let it go! At this point I will only tell you this number: We have a thousand forty-three cooperatives that have adapted their statutes, seven hundred sixteen who have adapted the statutes and financial statements of 2016 and three hundred fifteen who have all the conditions. We will actually try to put them in a process of sustainability. It's not easy. Also, let us not forget that we have already made a great deal of progress in the producer groups, the producer organisations. Two hundred and thirty organisations are already working and waiting from the time that the measure concerning producer groups has already been published. There we will have their operating expenses covered through this process. Let's move on, then. Mr President, I would just like a few more minutes, because there are some loose ends that we really need to respond to, especially as farmers are at present in a process of mobility and they must listen to something. Previously, however, I would like to focus on the issue of the promotion and promotion of food. We're fighting big. We have already raised the amount of 179 million for the promotion and promotion of products. In these battles we are giving not only are we trying to overthrow bad agreements that previously existed - and we are doing it by improving the situation - but we are also particularly ensuring agreements with third countries, such as that in Japan, full protection of PDOs and, in particular, of feta-society. We use this as a tool for subsequent agreements. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I just want it to be clear to both farmers and farmers that we want them allies in this regard. Imagine that right now we have the European Commission hunting for Denmark and the Czech Republic because they are trying to mislead their consumers with Greek yoghurt. In order for the European Commission to reach this position, battles have been fought so that we can have their agreement. I would like to call once again on the farmers to discuss matters. There are issues which we can make in the future. I would, of course, like to make it clear: as far as the tax aspect is concerned, it must be understood by themselves and by all those involved in the area that revenue and expenditure books, the recording of agricultural production, that is to say, do not harm them. On the other hand, if the procedure is followed properly, they will benefit themselves, but we too have the possibility of making tax reductions which will actually bring the room to a better place than the one they are today. The subject of wine has also been raised. We are talking about it and it is something that we will make an intervention in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u182	You've been talking about it for a year now!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u183	The issue of impoverishedness is already in the discussions we are having. You are all aware that until August 2018 there is nothing we can do. But it is a matter which concerns us and which we are working on. Also, we have the loose end of the 2015 oil tax. Already the procedures are being completed and I believe that by the end of February this particular tax will be started. I don't understand why he's getting into the farmland thing. There was no placement and there was no reference in the budget. I am now saying this because in the discussions that farmers are having this issue. We therefore say that, as far as taxation is concerned, we will see a number of issues. There is a problem in the organized producers and in the export of agricultural products. There will therefore be some intervention in the future. In addition, as regards matters relating to insurance contributions and arrangements can be made, at least until the end of 2016, so that any debts they had to make the arrangements. Moreover, pensioners - young farmers will not have a problem by 2025 for their agricultural income. This is what we plan to do by at least the end of 2024 and for the professionals or non-agricultural activities that have agricultural income, at least up to a sum of around EUR 4.600. Also, there is a movement around the bachelor. It is a request for farmers to join the bachelor of rural space and the seasonal posters. We are particularly trying to link the seasonality of rural work to this particular bachelor. In conclusion, I really want to thank you for the debate that has taken place. I think the farmers were at least given the opportunity to listen to us. Here we are, and we'll talk again because the rural area needs consensus - I don't mean collapsing, I mean consensus - and it's very important. Thank you very much. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Minister. The debate on Question No 13/8-12/2017 is adjourned on the anti-agricultural policy of the government which causes great discontent among farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-26-S1-commons.u185	With the consent of the House at 15.10 p.m. the meeting for the next Monday, January 29, 2018, at 18.00, on the subject of the House's work, parliamentary scrutiny: a) a) a reference to the Memorandum of Greek Jewish Witnesses in Holocaust and b) a debate on topical questions.
