ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's approval from 31-10-2018, the minutes of its PRACTICE sessions were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, of Wednesday, 31 October 2018, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Definition of Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/994 of 13 July 2018 amending the Act concerning the election of Members of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage annexed to Council Decision 76/787/ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Friday, 2 November 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 107/29-10-2018 by MP Larissa of New Democracy Mr Christou Kelles to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The huge gaps in Special Education - Parallel Support". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "To adjust fifty instalments from PPC to TWG Ion - Drepanos - Asine and the other TWG". 3. The 114/30-10-2018 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Direct action to protect workers at the LARCO plant" in Larymna Fthiotis, in order to avoid accidents at work". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 108-10-2018 by MP Mr.Piraeus of New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Electronic Environmental Register... with a paper envelope". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Migration Policy, entitled “Gold Keys” and direct assignments for refugees. 3. The 113/30-10-2018 topical question by Piraeus II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "Great shortages of teaching staff in secondary education in Piraeus". 4. The 90/23-10-2018 topical question by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Dues to teaching staff in secondary education in the Prefecture of Halkidiki". 5. The Question No 74/16-10-2018 by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, entitled "The planning for maritime education". 6. The Question No 81/22-10-2018 by Mr Mikhail Jeleli to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The situation of the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ)". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject of "Government misinformation, that the guarantors of the indebted households are protected". 8. The Question No 53/11-10-2018 by MP Pireaus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: ‘Strengthening the Port House with a view to establishing an EOZ and an EOG mining of hydrocarbons and natural gas’. 9. The 20/3-10-2018 topical question by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Turkish challenging continues in the Aegean". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "Surveyance and upgrading of the Peloponnese University Nursing School of Nursing in Sparta". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 1326/6-9-2018 by MP B' Athens of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Incredible analgesia of PPC against its consumers, accompanied by the unbelievable suffering of PPC's shops". 3. The 115/18-7-2018 question by MP I Athens of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanellis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Serious problems cause the residents of Saints Theodoros, the Municipality of Andravidas - Cyclones the operation of a processing plant for meat by-products". 4. Question No 1048/30-8-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARKK KEGEROGlou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To resolve the problem that has arisen for the graduate students of the Department of Political Structural Works of the School of Application of T.E.I. Crete.’ Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, thirty one student and two teachers from the 23rd High School in Athens. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We will begin with the third with number 112/30-10-2018, a top-level question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "To complete the irrigation and refreshment work in the plain in the estuary of Mornos". Here, Mr Moraite, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u3	Minister, for this work of irrigation and reafforestation in the Mornos estuary in Fokida, the KKE first questioned in 2005, bringing to Parliament the intense reactions of the inhabitants and farmers of the region about how to build the project and forced reafforestation. Since then there has been a lot of water in the grove, but there has been no drop in the groves in this particular project to water their fields. That is why the work is rightly described by farmers as a bridge of Arta. This work began as a compensation for the reduction of water supply due to the Morno dam. This project has been left uncompleted since 2011 with malicious and questionable administrative receipts and this is the most important one. All of this results in producers leaving herds literally uncultivated and thus losing income which for most of them are survival incomes. Their income is also dramatically reduced, because, in particular, after 2010, compensation for standing crops, which was paid for the period 2007-2010, is not paid. Another serious issue is that rural roads in many cases become impassable because of the lack of drainage projects that have not been completed, so that we have even flooding, and the concern that, as long as reafforestation is not completed, the property is in the air. Residents and owners for years now, with all the governments, live ridicule and mockery, promises by governments, from local government (a) and (b) degrees, that is, the municipalities of the Region of Central Greece. They have been teasing them for years that the project is being completed, that money has been found and that it is a matter of time. It is precisely the same - and do not invoke it, Minister - that took place at a meeting held last Monday by Mr Casimis. And there it has been said that some money, 20 million euros, will be given to the Region of Central Greece, which of this EUR 5 million will be earmarked for this project. The people, in our view, must draw conclusions on what has been happening for years, which mockery is succeeding in one another, as do governments. And they remain in the same work spectators and rightly characterize this work as a bridge of Arta. Minister, the anger and indignation of farmers and people in the region for a timely, fair and serious request which they see is absolutely justified. And we ask you, Minister, in particular: firstly, what measures will you take and when will this money be secured, so that there is sufficient funding for the completion of the project? Secondly, what will you do and what if it is your intention to give up-to-date compensation for crops after 2010, that is, until the final cancellation of the project is made? After all, this - and we will say it in dentistry - is provided for by forced reafforestations. The main point, Mr Minister, is that we ask the following question: there will be enormous responsibilities in your own government if the project is considered to be continuing. If that is the case, it is clear that it will be done with the aim of getting some of their responsibilities out of hand. I mean, who? Those who have received the project in the past and who have serious responsibilities. And if we get as a result of living, which you might say is EUR 700,000 for eight years, that is about EUR 5.5 million. Who will pay this money when this project has had to be completed for several years and some have put wide - widely signed it - to receive a project that is inactive today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, on the subject you are bringing to Parliament today it is worth clarifying a number of issues. From 1992 to 1993, when our country faced a great deal of drought, and Athens had a great problem in watering, the decision was made to transport drinking water from Mornos to Athens. It was a work of maximum priority and of course an emergency at that time. Therefore, due to the construction of the dam and the diversion of water for Attica, the availability of water to farmers for irrigation has also been reduced. It was decided to compensate at that time, firstly, the construction of irrigation work in the Morno plain and, secondly, the payment of compensation for an orthodox crop due to a lack of water for farmers who could no longer water their fields. The purpose of this project was to build networks for the transport of water, pumping stations and a tank of water for agricultural use. Specifically, it was decided to build thirty-five kilometres of network of canals made of unarmed concrete, drained earth graves, three pumping stations, water remodeling tank and rural roads. From this decision onwards, in 2003 a tender was made for the construction of the project and approved in 2005, by decision of the Minister for Rural Development on the basis of a decision of the Council of State. The project was called "Open Field Oriental Network of Mornos Fokidos" and the total budget was EUR 9,241,466. In 2006, the project was commissioned with a second phase and a budget of EUR 12,956,610. The deadline for completion was then thirty months. [[At this point the end of the speaking time bell is ringing the Secretary-General's]] The project’s problem therefore begins when the region started to change uses, exploit tourists as well. We arrive in 2017, when by decision of the Minister for Rural Development and Food and pursuant to a judicial decision the contract was to be dismantled. This decision shall include the place where the project is completed. On 12 October of this year, a few days ago, by decision of the Ministry, the postponement of the completion of the temporary reception was approved. [[At this point, Mr. Minister, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing on several occasions.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. This is because there is the Ministry's will to carry out additional projects as you mentioned, so that the project will become operational, which has not been done for ten years. That's what we're interested in. The project will be financed from national resources after the study has been prepared and approved. It is clear that the money for the implementation of the study will now be provided from national resources. That is why, on 12 October, this decision was taken to postpone completion of the project, so that we can continue and complete the project. I'm going to tell you in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Moraite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you described the entire route of the project. We have not asked that, nor are we questioning everything that has been done. We told you quite clearly that, since 2005, we have transferred to Parliament the residents' disagreement. Firstly, that this work would not serve poor farmers as it was done, and in particular the work of forced reafforestation. When, Minister, are we making forced reafforestation? When we have diffuse property and we want to gather them at one point, so that the producers who own property in one and two and three points can get some properties at one point. That is not the case in this case, which is why we are looking for responsibilities. For example, almost 85% of the owners are small owners who have five and a half acres. Others served this work, the contractors who squeezed the money all this time without completing it, as well as some other interests that exist in the region. This is clearly seen here and since the completion of the project. First of all, from the testimony of the people - whom I do not know if you are familiar - the tank, to say it popular, is a swirl in fact. It has leaks, so there is no water pressure to water these farms, if the project is done, with a natural flow. The work used to have open grooves. Today they say they're going to be tubing grooves. Why does the study change? Who did the first study, which did not really meet the needs of the people? As far as what we said earlier is concerned, whether the project is considered to be ongoing, they will say that everything has been done well and no one will take responsibility for all those who signed it the previous period. We believe that what you say today, as you did at the meeting, is promises. We have a duty to say that people must draw conclusions from their experience and from what has happened in previous years. In our opinion, this project will not be completed, because it is not the only project that is being cancerd throughout the country. Unfortunately, many of these projects are ineligible because they do not leave profits, they do not work backwards for business interests. Minister, your predecessor, Mr. Apostle, when he had visited the area about a year and a half ago, had expressly assured the residents that within 2018 this work will work. We believe that something similar is today's promises. We are asking clearly: is this money, or is it about 5 million, guaranteed? Residents also carry another question if the project will be carried out under the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food or the Region or the Ministry of Infrastructure. What is certain, Minister, is that the inhabitants are in despair. They've lost their income all these years. In the past, even in this traditional way they watered in the region, there were dynamic crops such as corn, rubyl and other crops, leaving an income to the inhabitants of the region. Today, literally, the plain has been wasted and we are talking about some eight thousand acres. Farmers do not cultivate, so it is imperative, as we have said, that we give the sworn crop over the years that farmers have been able to cultivate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Another serious issue is the flooding phenomena that will appear. If there are no drainage works now, there will be such phenomena.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u8	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u9	I shall conclude, Mr President. We believe that there should be a case for the people of the region, because, as I have said, the smuggling takes several years. It seems clear that it is not in the intentions of today's government to complete this work. Even if it is completed, we insist now: money has been wasted in the past, because we are talking about waste when it comes to some millions...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u10	All right, Mr. Moraite, let the Minister reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u11	You have to give an answer. The residents of the area...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u12	But to give him the floor to answer the last one. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u13	Mr Colleague, I wonder where it is that it is not in the current government's intention to complete the work. I've explained the history so far. It follows from this that it is absolutely in our intention to do what has not been done for ten years now, that is to say to make the work operational. That's what the residents are interested in and you're sure that the residents know we're not all the same. That's clear. I must inform you and the National Representation that this is not the only work that has been done, either because it has legal implications or because it has legal problems or technical problems. There's a lot of works that's done. These are absolutely certain that the government will complete them, and will end them technically and legally as necessary. Be sure that the National Representation, you and the residents will not have any shadow left for anyone. Let everyone involved be sure and have responsibilities that these responsibilities will be attributed to everyone. There's no wormhole for anyone. Immunity doesn't exist for anyone. It will look like all the projects - because we are talking here about budgets that have been overcrowded since the original one - because they have not been completed and why the budget has reached it, until the last penny. That is why the Greek people must be sure. It must be certain that only with this government can this be done. Now, as regards standing production, this project was included in the 2007-2013 PAA, that is, within the previous programming period alone. In this programming period, only one beneficiary decision came in for 2010, which was paid. Since then there has been no further decision - a payment proposal for standing production at the Ministry of Rural Development. As you are well aware, this is an action that the region has exclusive competence. So when the only request that has come to the Ministry during the 2007-2013 programming period was in 2010, the one that came to the Ministry was paid. Since then no other move has been made and, as you can see, no one can give money without proper procedures being followed. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] In conclusion, I would like to remind you that for this project we already have a judicial decision, which led to the decision of the Minister for Rural Development in 2017. Therefore, it is not concluded anywhere that legality will not be followed and the work will not be completed. As far as the money is concerned - and I am closing down - these are clearly committed. The money to finance both the study and the construction of integration from national resources, from the Public Investment Programme, is committed. The play will be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, too. I would like to make it known to the House that the fourth question raised by Mr Nicholas Kouzilou, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject of 'Protection of crews from abandonment of a ship of inland waterways', will not be discussed. Also, the fifth under number 1/1-10-2018, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Museum of Macedonian Struggle and other institutions, associations and unions of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement", will not be discussed. Also the first question under number 106/29-10-2018 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Stavros Kalafatis, on the subject: "In the last posts in the European Union Greece in poverty and child poverty, will not be discussed due to lack of responsibility. The Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity is responsible. The second, with number 97/23-10-2018, timely question for the first cycle of Congressman I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Kazan ready to explode the state of Skopje", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. The same applies to the third with number 98/24-10-2018, a topical question from the second Athens Parliamentary of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The pogrom against the Greeks in Chimara continues." Now we will discuss the second question by number 116/30-10-2018 of the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of "Taking up serious problems arising from the adoption of the new plans for demarcation of the map of disadvantaged areas". Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. The question, Minister, is about changing the criteria and the map of regions characterised as disadvantaged, a tool which has now been used by the state and the European Union for many decades for support policies for residents, but in particular for producers of each sector, in order to cope with the adverse conditions under which they live in these regions and, of course, under which they cultivate or breed. I would like to make it clear that changing the criteria under the Rules of Procedure is provided for by 1-1-2019, because many farmers and farmers have an anxieties for this year. This year there are no changes, the old regime is in place, and I suppose they will be paid properly. You'll tell us. However, the problem from the 2019 model should now be addressed, because the study that has been carried out and which shows in many regions a reduction of those characterised as disadvantaged will deprive support from tens of thousands of producers, and this is inconsistent with the real situation. In particular, for Crete, I must tell you that fifty-eight exempted areas do not proceed on the basis of any interpretation of the regulation itself. Only with a distorted interpretation could this be done. I think, of course, that Crete should have been excluded for two reasons anyway: The first reason is that it was excluded from the reductions in the less-favoured areas. The first reason is that it is in the front line because of climate change for desertification. This is shown by all the studies and signs that are evident everywhere. The second reason is that it is an island and you have said here in Parliament that all the islands will be exempted from changing criteria because of the island character. In any case, however, what we are asking is that the criteria should be applied correctly, that you take into account the real situation in relation to conditions and climate change and all these regions continue to be in disadvantaged areas, so that they do not lose the support and policies that the Greek state and the European Union have worked out for them. And I would like us to hear your intentions and the Ministry as a whole on this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u16	Good. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u17	Mr Colleague, I sincerely thank you for the question today, why do you give me the opportunity to clarify a few things: The first is that all areas will be clearly paid for this year with the old regime, but also in 2019 and 2020 by means of gradual decommissioning, all the areas that were up to now will be paid. The new areas that will be integrated will begin to be paid from time to time, because it is not just the regions that are going to come out. And that has not been understood. Some of the restrictions that existed since 1980 have been lifted - when it was the first regulation, the first definition for disadvantaged areas - are those that come out, but others where problems have arisen, as described in the criteria of Regulation 1305/2013. Areas are added. I would like to stress that we will move on to a fair and objective demarcation of disadvantaged areas in order to ensure farmers' subsidies. And this will be done in good time, and it will be done properly. You know that the new criteria laid down in Regulation 1305, these criteria are very specific and within these frameworks we must move forward. We can't move any differently. A framework has been created that we will move within it. Why, you know what? If we send something different and out-of-criteria to the committee, it will simply be rejected and it will come back. We do not want to make a move that is just a move of impression, but something needs to be done that is a substance. You also know that since the beginning of the 1980s - what we have said - the regions have changed, improved in terms of the creation of irrigation works that have been done at times on the ground, changed and adapted, so the country's economic potential has changed. We had a consultation procedure. In this consultation process very serious proposals were tabled, with substantiated arguments. All this has been taken into account and to the extent that it is in accordance with the criteria laid down in Regulation No 1305 they have been included. I will mention two features: we have found that there are areas with biophysical restrictions. That is the key to the regulation. It's the first step, if you want. We have seen that we can use other criteria above them in order to integrate more areas. In other words, where there is stockfarming, a priority is given to conservation, which we are making the most of. We have therefore, as an addition to the broadening of criteria, introduced the municipal flats into the mountains and lessfavoured areas where there is a significant area of pasture. The second criterion is economic performance at the county level on the basis of the typical yield of crops and farms. In other words, counties that have a standard yield of less than 100% of the national average and there are natural restrictions, they should also be included in the less-favoured areas. Therefore, we have also incorporated municipal districts of counties whose productivity on the basis of the standard yield is below the average. So you understand that only on the basis of these two criteria we have a very large expansion of the regions which are now part of the less-favoured areas. Let us make it clear, however, from this point on that at the end the total areas that will come under the extra criteria I have just mentioned will be at the same level as the less-favoured areas in the country, as mountains do not change. We're talking about disadvantages. The whole area will be on the same level. In addition, the overall budget will be at the same level as the new areas included and the areas which did not meet any of the criteria laid down in Regulation 1305. I'll talk to you about Crete in my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like you to answer me why, while you have said here in the House, in reply to Mr Moraitis, that island and border regions are all part of the areas with special disadvantages - and that is where it is ensured that no one will be wronged - why do you not do so for Crete? Of course, the Agricultural University has not taken into account the risk of desertification, of changing conditions. Because, yes, it sees the area where irrigation has increased, for example, the possibility of irrigation, but does not see the possibility being given to balance the increase in disadvantages. Because disadvantages are not static. For Crete they are growing due to climate change. And that's not what they've taken into account in the study. That is why I say that the criteria are distorted. It is a good thing that you said about some criteria that will come in. However, I heard you say about gradual impairment in 2019 and 2020. There are new areas coming in, you said. I would like to know in Crete what, not only me, but also the inhabitants and producers of these regions. But new beneficiaries also enter. And this opens up an extra topic. It opens up this issue, Minister: for this year, the level of authorization, which is about 100,000, 000, if I know you well, exists. For 2019 and 2020 in the framework of the entire programme, is there? Or is it foreseen that we will ask for authorisation to enter national funds in order not to be regarded as State aid? Will the 2019 and 2020 budget need to be increased by any implementation, given that about one thing exists in the fund? In any case, we should look specifically at what I told you about Crete. Mr. Buras had taken up your mind at that time, and you might not have heard of it. This is essential for us, because we are constantly talking about the islands and when we arrive in Crete you say "here we cannot apply it". Why? Minister, I would be happy and the producers in Crete if we had specific answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u20	Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, for island and border regions, I would like to stress that everyone is part of the map of disadvantaged areas and regions. However, with Crete - as you know very well from your great term of office - the same criteria cannot be applied because they will not be passed by the committee. Crete and Evia cannot be considered to be the same criteria as islands. That's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u22	Evia is not an island. It's got a fixed connection.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u23	We've got the bridge that's ruining our manestra!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u24	The same criteria cannot be applied. I'm saying it again. However, with regard to the region of Crete, what is most interested in your region: Lassithi Prefecture is almost entirely mountainous. So it's not a question, it belongs to mountainous areas. In Heraklion, according to the pasture criterion - because there is serious livestock - most areas are integrated. However, there are some areas where the overall typical crop yield - as you know, there are dynamic areas in Heraklion - is greater than the national average and there are no pastures. If there were pastures, according to the grazing criterion where they exist, that goes beyond that. In Rethymnon, the overall economic performance of the county falls significantly short of the average. So that is where the economic performance criterion prevails and we also have areas there. In the Chania area we have both criteria. We also have areas where there is a lack of the national average, but also areas with grassland. So most areas of Chania, on the basis of these two criteria we include for consideration, are also covered there. However, there are also some areas where newly-built projects have been created, that is, investments in irrigation, which, as you can see, cannot be integrated with new investments. In any case, however, this is also subject to the approval of the European Commission. That is why we must be absolutely careful and fully documented in what we are saying. Because our aim is at the end of the year not to risk farmers' subsidies or to have done something that will turn us back and we should collect it. In any case, our proposal should comply with the criteria set out in the regulation. We have this regulation, 1305/2013. With him and within this regulation we must move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much. The first question will be discussed under No 105/29-10-2018 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Simos Kedicoglou, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “The Chalkida bypass – N. Lampsakos – Psakna”. Mr. Kedicoglou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, let's see when this injustice will end against Evia. An injustice that - why many wonder why Evia is at least 20 years behind the rest of Greece, as far as road projects are concerned - is due to the exclusion of Evia from the trans-European networks and started by the Site Government in 2000. When all the rest of Greece rained money for road projects, above Evia they had put an umbrella. In 2013 we managed to remove this exclusion, with the help of the then Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and Evia joined the trans-European networks. We were able to move fast. I want to note - and thank, by the way - the work they did all the time your people didn't finance the Ministry's Study Department. They did a very good job and just because they had the studies ready, when in 2013 we managed to get Euboea into the trans-European networks, everything ran very fast. Within less than a year and a half, he joined the ESRB, the auction was announced at the beginning of 2015, then the SYRIZA - ANEL government invented, and that is where the problems begin. By 23 December 2015, the project shall remain within the ESDP. In response to your government at the time, the Ministry of Development said that the road construction project "Blue Chalkida" is in the approved operational programme "Transport Infrastructure" and the possibility of co-financing from the Cohesion Fund has been ensured. That's what the Ministry of Development said. Your Ministry said that all the studies are ready - as I had told you - and the time needed to build the project is forty months. That's where we're going well. On March 11, 2016, we learn that the project breaks into three, but remains within the ESDP. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to take some time from my dentistry, Mr President. Then the site ypodomes.gr, citing information from the Ministry of Infrastructure, said that it was breaking the project into three pieces, as was the case with the "Patras - Tower" - which we are discussing - but which is included in the programming of the OP - NIMEXE and which is co-financed by the Cohesion Fund. So far - let's say - we're going well. The Secretary-General of the ESRB on October 11, 2016 comes to say that although the project is included in the major projects - approved in 2014 - but the budget exceeds 50% of the existing budget. This is where injustice begins, because of the fourteen works that were on this list, thirteen were regularly financed. Only for the "Halkida bypass", the relevant list of the programme said that the thirteen were in progress, but the "Halkida bypass" will proceed according to the availability of resources. And yet, at the time it was in the same category as the "Patra - Tower" - it was actually more ready, as you confessed then - and left behind this project. On 21 February - because we still had no official information from you and I asked you - you recognized me the injustice that has been done against Evia, and you said more to me, because I had told you that it was just as mature as the "Patra - Tower": "No, it was more mature than the "Patra - Tower"". And yet Chalkida stayed out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u27	Let the Minister answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u28	Please, Mr President, just one more minute. Because it's a story that, you see, takes five years. In March 2017 you told me that we were a step ahead of the final agreement with the European Investment Bank. You even said it was the greatest injustice done against Evia. Your services have said that the decision of the European Investment Bank will be taken after the completion of the cost-benefit study, which will be completed by October 2017. We have arrived in October 2018. I ask you again what "one step" means and you tell me "October 2017". I come back in March of this year because there had also been a balom of statements. My compatriot and State Secretary Mr Mavraganis said that within the first six months of 2018 he would have been auctioned, while you, in the debate on the 2018 budget in the House, said he would be auctioned in the first two months of 2018. You presented me with the answer that was sent to me, which said that completion of the evaluation by the EIB is expected to be carried out in order to submit the request for funding. This request, that is, has not yet been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Kedicoglou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u30	But I would like to know, Minister, what the hell is going on? How long do we have to wait?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u31	We should give the floor to the Minister to find out, Mr Kedicoglou. It's no different. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 23rd High School of Athens (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u32	My dear colleague, Evia has indeed suffered a huge injustice over the years. Not only in road projects, but in numerous projects. There could be the blockade, as you said, by the Site Government in 2000. But the Samaras government, by name, will allow me to say that it has included these projects. The project "Balkis bypass", a major development project, said then the Ministry of Government Samaras that in December 2014 it was ready to be auctioned, that the funding has been guaranteed and all the rest. Let me remind you, then, that there was overbooking in road projects 227% for trans-European networks. Therefore, the Ministry of Economy, obviously, after the European Commission's directives, had to take some of the projects that were allegedly integrated with overbooking 227% in road projects to limit them. Second one. You remember that New Democracy voted in favour of changing the law on public procurement and public works, to go to further transparency, not having the pathogens we had in previous years, with delays, indemnity and all the rest. This has led us, firstly, to incorporate into the procedure referred to in Article 7 on the expropriations of the project in order to speed up the process. Done in 2017. He joined the projects of national importance by Act of the Council of Ministers of 2017. So you realise that in December 2014 it was obviously not ready to auction the project once the necessary expropriation procedures had not been carried out. I would also remind you that the environmental report of the work published by the Minister for the Environment was made on August 2, 2016. Let me also remind you may not know that, in order to run this project, it was required to review the approved Chalkida rice plan in order to agree road engraving, the final solution chosen, because it passed through an area that had a specific rice plan. Now this was done on October 8, 2018. I'll give it to you. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, no cost study had been carried out - benefit and, of course, no ceremonial integration had taken place. No necessary expropriations published on 8 October 2018 were available. What have we done? The original design provided for the tendering of the project for ‘Halkida bypass’, the Nea Lampsakos - Psachna section. That was six and a half kilometers and had a budget of 165 million euros. We have decided to promote a comprehensive comprehensive solution on road projects from the High Bridge of Chalkida and bypassing searches of twenty-five kilometres long. After consultation by the EIB and the competent managing authority, it was agreed to extend the project. I imagine you agree with that, too. It must not be confined to sixteen miles, and we must go to twenty-five kilometers. We have an additional four kilometers from the High Bridge of Chalkida to Nea Lamphakos, which has a budget of 25 million and from the section of the Psaknon bypass, which is four and a half kilometres with a budget of 10 million. These sections have environmental authorisations today. So the total budget for the project is EUR 200 million. You know - you have said so too - about the procedures requested by the European Investment Bank in order to document the burdens. The survey of origin-destination was also completed and the relevant questionnaires were sent to the European Bank, and then it was necessary to check the studies on road safety, which in the European Commission's terminology is called "safety audit" and is necessary on the basis of d.d.104/2011 for road sections belonging to the trans-European network. The specific studies that I am telling you are being completed next month, last November, with the beginning of December, have been commissioned and tender documents for the tendering procedure have been completed. In consultation with the competent managing authority, it was agreed that part of the expenditure on the overall project will be financed by the NSRP 2014-2020. We have started the process with the European Commission’s Counsellor, the JASPERS team, in order to submit this request for project funding from 2014-2020, which is, obviously, complete, and all this material, which is studies, investigations, all the rest requested by the European Bank, will be used to document this dossier. So the financing of the project, which was not guaranteed with overbooking 227% as you understand, is finally done as follows: We will also have funding from the European Investment Bank and from the NSRF 2014-2020 and from national resources. To have an image, the auction budget is about 200m euros, along with the option to enter the contest. The amount will be in proportion to the discounts to be made. For example, if we have a deduction of 35%, the amount of the contracts will be EUR 130 million, the EIB will finance with 50%, i.e. EUR 65 million, from the ESRB the funding will be 85% of the remaining amount, i.e. EUR 55 million and the remaining EUR 10 million are from national funds. The NSRF will also finance expropriation costs, estimated at EUR 14 million. So that there are no further delays, as we truly recognise the importance and necessity of this project, as well as the needs that Evia has and the projects that have left behind with responsibility for those who had shortcomings in the design or implementation of the projects, we are committed to the tendering of the project, to the completion of the necessary negotiations and studies in the year and the tendering of the project by January 2019 at the latest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u33	Good. I have a feeling that questions and answers have been answered throughout the whole area.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u34	No, Mr. President. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u35	But, Mr. Kedicoglou, you and the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u36	Anyone who doesn't want to sing is sifting all year round. It's the first time I've seen a play going into the N.R.R. He was in the N.S.S.A., he came out of the N.S.S.A., re-entered. You said it was in name that the project was ready. Of the fourteen works, thirteen went on. You yourself had confessed that the "Patras-Tower" was a more mature project than the "Patra-Tower" and yet proceeded with the "Patra-Tower". So, what directives of the European Union? These are government decisions. But, to come to the feast, to finance. I accept that the project is entering the NSRP. The European Investment Bank, Minister, according to what we are learning, is extremely reluctant to finance road projects. Financing energy and information projects. What guarantee is there? And you could, after you recognise the injustice against Evia, give from the Public Investment Programme. There's over 1 billion euros worth of it. I think Evia deserves what she's lost. And as far as the break-up of the project is concerned, I have serious reservations, Minister, because in the first part of the project you say it has broken into two, there must be land being removed, which will be needed in the second part of the project. Well, if there's no agreement between the two contractors, it'll create malfunctions. In any case, because, as they say, in the past, and so forth, funding is the main, and from you I want the answer not when the tender is to be made, but when the contract is to be signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u37	Minister, your poster.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Kedicoglou, first of all, we did not decide to break the project. Where did you draw that conclusion? It was backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u39	You said two pieces, High Bridge.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u40	No, we said that we have added to the section that was from you, from the previous government, announced that two additional sections would be auctioned. One from the High Bridge to the New Lampshakos and one from the High Bridge, which is bypassing the Scouts. Same contest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u41	The first thing you said was already inside, the second one you added now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u42	He wasn't in there already. You're wrong. It wasn't, and it wasn't mature. The second is that the EIB is not reluctant for road projects. If these projects are sustainable and in line with the standards it has, it is very willing. If the cost-benefit study had been carried out since 2014, you would have seen that it is willing to finance projects that are viable rather than doing overbooking of 227%, that is, projects that will never have funding. When you have a budget of a hundred and a commitment budget of two hundred and fifty, there is a problem. That's common sense. To present the map of the two sections and also to present to you the Act of the Ministerial Council, when, in order to quickly become expropriations, I should like to present to you when the environmental conditions were adopted in 2016, which shows that there was no complete maturity of the project. [[At this point, Minister Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] There may have been some mature technical studies, but the maturity of the work to be auctioned did not exist. Obviously neither expropriations nor planning nor money had been or had been foreseen for expropriations. But I want to say something. Evia is wronged over time by both governments and local bodies. At some point, that is, we must finish the work and the way to Carystos. It's been a few decades where the district...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u43	But there are five contractors out there.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u44	They're out of five contractors. That is what we say, that we do not do projects that go decades in the history of time and do not complete the works. There must be those terms and conditions that ensure that the project starts and ends in a reasonable time, even if the contractors cannot meet their needs. That's what we're doing now. The work will therefore be auctioned in January. It is certain that we will have a contract before the elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u45	When are the elections going to take place?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u46	In October, at the end of the four-year period. And it is also certain, and I tell you very well, that the project will start and will not have the slightest problem of delays, whether it concerns environmental licensing, technical studies, expropriations or any delay we have had so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u47	With the good news, Mr. Kedicoglou, start the work. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Furtherance of the concession agreement between the Greek State and the company GAIAOSE S.A. ANTI-DUMPING CONTRIBUTION MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT, by the company "TRADE INDUSTRIAL REGIONS CONTRIBUTION" and by the company "GOLLOWER CARGO INTERNATIONAL CONTROL AND LOGISTICS ANIMAL CONTRIBUTION", for the "TRADE DEVELOPMENT OF TRANSPORT CENTRE" and other provisions. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 29 October 2018 that the draft law should be discussed at a single meeting on principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u49	The House has agreed. So the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Konstantinos Spartinos, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing the ratification of the concession agreement between the Greek State and GAEOSE and the company "THEIOSO GENERATORY CENTRE" and the companies "ETVA" and "GOLISOR". With the ratification of this convention, a project on several occasions since 2004 had been attempting to complete it with repeated failures, a project for which expropriations had started since 1979. Today, this government succeeds where all previous governments failed. The day before yesterday, of course, we heard the President of the New Democracy once again trying, without contemplating and reluctantly, to undermine every investment effort in the country by calling on Arab investors to invest in our country, but only when he is a Prime Minister, that is to say, in the ultimate and invisible future. And an opportunity, of course, once again asked for elections in Greece in front of an Arab investors audience. Today, therefore, the government is proposing - and I am sure Parliament will ratify - another major investment, which will exceed EUR 200 million, will create, over a decade, three to five thousand new jobs, give a great added value in the area of combined transport and will make Greece one of the most important combined transport hubs in the world, an investment that, together with a related investment of around 300 million euros in a neighbouring property of "OSCE SA" will create an integrated complex of modern transit and freight train centre. This is an investment that will increase vertically and the value of this adjacent property and investment of the OSE, which is delivered these days, and of course, it will also help to develop regional support activities from industries and crafts in the region, i.e. strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises. It turns out that it was a good choice not to grant the whole, that is, one of the five hundred eighty acres of the contract that we are discussing and one thousand and fifty, about, which is the coveted property of the OSE, which is a choice that some people did not like, trying to convince that in the way it was proclaimed there would not be an investor concerned. The investor was, as was offered by investors and in the tender for the Thessaloniki freight centre, which is part of the overall planning for the freight centres that the government and the relevant Ministry have made, where we have three bidders. Perhaps, then, it should not be surprised that some political forces, but also other non-political ones, have been very disturbed by this development, which, apart from the economic conditions contained in the contract, also has other indirect, but clear benefits for the public through the participation of the public in ETVA and the Piraeus Bank. Ladies and gentlemen, freight transport is one of the most important factors in a country's economic development. Goods centres shall be established in demarcated areas for the provision of services related to combined transport, as well as supply chain services where undertakings can establish and carry out their activities. The main functions they develop are the organisation and concentration of loads, their redistribution and grouping from different origins to common destinations, the wider coordination of arrivals and departures of freight flows, conventional and specialised storage, the organization of final distribution, the change of means of transport, packaging and packaging of products, as well as other light processing activities. All these functions, in addition to the necessary premises, require modern transhipment equipment to the various means of transport, as well as computer and telematic services for the effective organisation of transport. The creation of freight centres helps to streamline the combined transport system, to better organise transport systems, to minimise the cost of transporting goods from the supplier to the final recipient, to optimise transport chains while providing high quality safety and reliability services. Greece's geographical position provides a unique comparative advantage for the development of both the freight sector and the operation as a freight portal for freight transport, both in Central Europe and in the rapidly growing markets in Southeast Europe. Goods transport in Greece has risen a great deal over the past five years and is expected in the immediate future and with this investment to show even greater. A strategic objective for the government is the creation of an international freight centre, which will help increase freight transport by rail, as well as highlighting the country as a basic portal for the movement of goods in the trans-European transport networks. In this context, the objectives and objectives of the ‘GIAOSE’ under this Convention consist of the faster start-up of the Centre, the construction of modern and operational buildings and other facilities and infrastructure, the exploitation of combined transport capabilities, ensuring the service of maximum number of end-users, the provision of high quality services to the users of the Centre, the development of railway freight through the integrated railway centre on the adjacent OSE platform, the full development of the centre’s capacity and ensuring adequate funding for the timely construction, smooth operation and future maintenance of the Centre. This Convention confers upon the property of which ‘GAIAOSE’ is the exclusive main prefect and holder, which is strategically located near the capital and port of Piraeus. In addition, it has direct access to the Attica Road and the national road network, as well as direct accessibility to a trans-European network, but also a link to the whole rail network, including railway connection to the port of New Iconi, where a container terminal already exists. The proposal put forward by ETVA - BIPE SA, on the one hand, and GOLDAIR, on the other, one of the largest and most experienced carriers in the transport sector in Greece, on the other, guarantees as far as possible that the appropriate framework for the more effective and rapid operation of the development work of the Trieste Field freight centre is developed. The contractor is invited to undertake the study, construction, operation and maintenance of the complex of the freight centre for sixty years, with all the obligations and rights resulting from the terms of the contract, which we now come to discuss and validate. The concession contract is awarded to the concessionaire for the exclusive commercial exploitation and use of the project and of the property, for the design, construction, financing, operation, exploitation and maintenance of the centre. For its part, the concessionaire undertakes to prepare the studies necessary for the implementation of the project as well as the risks associated with the study, construction, maintenance, insurance, operation, exploitation and financing of the centre, ensuring all the necessary funds. The contracting company undertakes to proceed with the development of the centre by equiping it with modern and operational buildings and other facilities and infrastructure, such as railway and road networks, water sewerage networks, electricity and communications networks, administrative and support services with telematics and IT systems, shaping the environment and satisfying the safety rules and environmental protection. The Greek State agrees with the purpose of guaranteeing the owner of the project, i.e. GIAOSE, for the obligations set out in Article 3 ‘Contract procedure by law of the contract’, Article 9.4 ‘Exemption from the owner of the work to the State’, Article 24 ‘Submission of events of force majeure’, Article 28 ‘Partial change of legislation’, Article 29 ‘Consequences of a complaint by the owner of the contract’ and Article 30 ‘Consequences of a complaint on the part of the concessionaire’. In this respect, now, with the expected benefits, as derived from the terms of the contract, a one-off concession of EUR 10 million is initially foreseen, while, in addition to this, the contracting company must pay on an annual basis and over the duration of the sixty years, amounting to 2.51% of its gross annual income, guaranteeing at the same time a minimum payment starting from EUR 350,000 per year and increasing over the years. I would like to remind you, because things have been heard about the part of this convention, that in 2006, in another attempt to implement this project - in a time, that is, at a time, which, they say, tied dogs up with sausages - had offered not 10 million, but 1.5 million euros and is currently being criticised for this particular economic agreement by some. But let us keep this: the sum of the present value of the annual guaranteed consideration is in accordance with the financial terms of the EUR 6,200,000 Convention. Let this amount make any comparisons. The concession agreement also imposes on the concessionaire an obligation to implement a binding investment programme. The concessionaire will execute and complete the constructions of the first T1 period within 24 months of the date of entry into force of a concession, in accordance with the schedule of application of the T1 period, and the constructions of the T2 period within a hundred and twenty months of the commencement date. To monitor and ensure the binding investment, the concession contract includes mechanisms to ensure the implementation of the mandatory investments mentioned. Finally, it is planned to participate in the work of an independent engineer who will have the task of controlling, supervising the construction and issuing the relevant completion assurances. The mechanic's cost, with any fees and expenses, is borne by the concessionaire, who is required to provide him with monthly progress reports, as well as to the principal of the project, until the completion of the first T1 period of the investment. Allow me here to comment briefly. There were some peaks in the Committee's meetings in criticism by colleagues of counter-population. They refer in particular to the application of Law 4530/2018, which lays down clear and transparent conditions for all matrimonial centres, while under the prior status of the notice, which was given the possibility of derogations, these derogations were not transparent, i.e. they were not given from the prior derogations to be applied in practice. You are therefore critical of a decision and a regulation which has complete transparency and sets out the same conditions for all centres in advance, except that it speeds up the relevant procedures. There was also particular criticism of the provision for a total acceleration of the project, which could, if the concessionaire agrees, be completed instead of ten years in a period of six or even three years, thus developing faster jobs and increasing the benefits for the public sector. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude very soon, Mr President. Finally, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support what I said at the committee meeting, namely to accept the request of the Panhellenic Rail Federation and Article 3, to add that category of workers to cabins. It is a small number, which were also wronged by those infamous arrangements of the previous government that had broken down OSE staff with special experience. Consider also certain rewards which could be granted to the Municipality of Assylum, in which the project will take place and operate, together with the acceleration of projects, which have already begun many of them in the wider region and which have been pending for many decades. Ladies and gentlemen, this Convention is coming to help strengthen our country's position, including as a gateway to East towards northern Europe, while reducing geographical distances and the connection time. It is part of the implementation of the strategic planning of the Government and the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure in particular for the freight centres, which includes, apart from the Triasios, and another freight centre in Thessaloniki, as we have already mentioned before, at the "Gonnos" Camp, which the contest is in progress for the promotion of an investor who will build and operate this freight centre, with planning the tender to be completed within 2018. In addition, in the first quarter of 2019, the tender for the promotion of an investor for the construction and operation of a freight centre and for Alexandroupolis should be launched. Our country is now coming back dynamically and with an extrovert to the international scene as a trade hub, with what this also means at geopolitical level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop", organized by the Foundation of the Greek Parliament, nineteen students and students and an attendant of the 2nd Municipal School of Freshwater. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Constantine Karamanlis, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u52	Thank you. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, during the debate in the Committee on Production and Trade on this bill, they have heard - the truth is - unprecedented things and there have been significant revelations. It has been shown that this convention, which you are bringing to Parliament today, is extremely problematic, that the public interest is being reversed, that it contains unconstitutional provisions and that it is the result of strange decisions and fermentations, which raise many questions. Before, however, I move on to the point of commenting on the contract, since, Minister, we have had the opportunity to discuss it thoroughly in committee, because we do not find you very often in the House, to make a more general reference, so that all Greek citizens and Parliament have a full picture of the policy pursued by your ministry, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. So what have you done, Minister, for four years? Firstly, institutional paralysis with No 4412, which changed the whole process of awarding public works. However, you did so in a way of extremely problematic and deficiting, which led to a complete "fresh" of all auctions in the second half of 2016 and in the first quarter of 2017. You blocked the NSRF for nine months and in fact all projects in the regions were frozen. A second feature of your term of office. Distance from independent administrative authorities. I would remind you of the famous competitive procedure for containers for immigrants, which, as the Independent Public Procurement Authority pointed out, was perforated in law and infringed provisions, both national and Union law. And then what did you say, Minister? You have denounced the independent authorities that it is'saints of waste and lawlessness' and 'apologise only to God', when we all know that in the European Union the independent authorities are an institutional counterweight to executive power. Third feature. Return to any sense of transparency in public works and I will tell you just one example. Since 2015 you have postponed the operation of the EMSDDA, which you have brought in for a year and a half, but it has been working with terrible problems. Fourth feature. Full absence of new projects. There is not even a great public work that this government has compromised. You are simply finishing the works of previous years and what you are doing is leaving the country without any planning for major projects. We are, of course, waiting, after you have told us too, with great interest to see what will happen in Castelli and whether the contract will actually be signed. I'm on my way to fifth. Exploration of project costs. We do not say that, but the report by the European Court of Auditors last March, which was revealing and confirms all that the Qualified Opposition says. The delays with the Capital Controls, the so-called proud negotiation you have made. So what did you do about the big plays? They cost 500 million more. Six. A lot of words, no works, huge delays. In summary, the whole country now knows. Patras-Pyrgos, you have spent four years, the work salamized it, you gave four sections to a company that is extremely problematic, Mr. Kalogrisa's company and, of course, your recent decision to secure the first part in the "TOXOTIS" consortium, did not surprise anyone, but it was amazed, Minister, to the common sense. Because it does not concern you either the vast 53% discount or the Attica Bank did not renew the guarantee letter of good execution, since this company is almost bankrupt and owes more than EUR 120 million. Then come the famous announcements of the Minister for the BOAK and the Rail Egnatia. Words, words, words! Where you stand, you are sending out projects, but you haven't signed a single contract in four years for a major project. Let's go to the seventh. You're blaming the old political system for ruffles. Let's see what SYRIZA's doing. I'm in the middle of something. Eighty in the EEAS, three hundred people in the EEAS, two hundred ninety-five metro stations and three hundred and twenty-four in the EEAS, and these are only specific organizations and CECs of the Ministry. Eighth. You did the incredible thing that no European Union country has done. Statement of the state or, as you say, deprivation of the OSH. You did it, you celebrated, everyone came and applauded you, but now the situation in Thessaloniki is tragic. Besides, the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, admitted it himself, saying that the new administration of the OSH has not met the demands and expectations of the citizens of Thessaloniki. I'm going to the ninth. Tragically deterioration of urban transport. From today on, the metro passengers headed to the airport should be disembarked to the Doukis Placentia station. A citizen, then, who wants to head from the pigeon to the airport, will have to change three different trains. If ever possible! So this government supports unprivileged people, because urban transport is the transport used by people who daily go to their jobs. I would also like to continue, saying this: you are talking about so-called previous scandals, and we have recently seen that you are doing so to the ultimate degree, because the government is making an attempt to make a relant and talk about scandalology. But I'll tell you one thing. You talking about so-called scandals, do you have anything to tell us about the hundred and twenty-seven direct assignments you have made within nine months 1-1-2017 to 14-9-2017? These are, therefore, issues to which you must respond at one time. This has not been said by the Qualified Opposition, but it has been made known, after scrutiny by the Independent Public Procurement Authority. So let's go, ladies and gentlemen, to talk - because we have time to talk about the Triumph too. First of all, we have the subject of "Eleftherios Venizelos". We have said so in committee too. The European Commission has come to you and 'he has taken your ears' for both the procedure and the price. So because, Mr President, the New Democracy Party has always been a champion of major strategic investment in the country, of investment that offers competitiveness to the economy and contributes to the employment of the workforce, of investments which serve the national interest, which operate in favour of many and not the few, we are in favour of this policy. We have also done so firstly with the advent of 'COSCO' in the PPA. We therefore believe in the need to take advantage of the Triasiou, which will strengthen the role of Piraeus in the sea corridor of Asia and Europe. However, it is not possible to support the specific contract that you have carried on different terms from those in the contract notice. On the substance, a unique offer has been submitted, which you have previously complained of in the other concessions made. We cannot expect to support a contract, which provides for a single price, reduced by 50%, by the decision of the Board of Directors of GAIAOSE. And that's not all. Your initial estimates for this investment were for 250 million euros. Based on the average real estate price currently in force, the total area of the buildings is estimated at EUR 150 million. However, the total price of the contract you bring for the sixty years is EUR 67 million. If we calculate the facilities you provide, the gifts you provide to the concessionaire, in particular by transferring projects from the second one to the first one, and listen to the Greek State guarantee, the price will be EUR 41 million. It is not possible, therefore, to expect the Qualifying Opposition to support this contract, which provides for a retrospective overhaul of the building coefficient and the coverage rate, the possibility to sell electricity and the exemption of the concessionaire from municipal fees. These are crucial changes that have taken place since the sole offer was lodged, as Mr Maniotis has said very well in committee. It is not possible, therefore, to support this contract, whereby the Greek State assumes a guarantor of all the business risks of a private investment. It is not possible to expect us to vote on this convention, which in an unconstitutional way provides that during the concession period, that is, for sixty years, there should be no change at all. And because the Minister has been mentioned several times in the 2006 contract committee, you will allow me to remind you what this agreement was like. Firstly, the convention at that time, in 2006, was speaking for thirty and not for sixty years. Secondly, the binding intervention was EUR 20 million. Thirdly, the concession area was two hundred and thirty-five thousand square metres and not nine hundred thousand square metres, as is in practice the quadrupling of the conditions of construction. Fourthly, the State guarantees in favour of the concessionaire were ‘zero’ and the concessionaire took over the entire investment risk - not exactly the opposite you are doing. And, fifthly, the annual payment was 10.6% of the annual revenue and not 2.51% of the annual revenue. Mr President, after what I have said to you, I think it is clear: yes, to investments in the public interest, which serve many and do not contain the benefits of a few. We let the government's majority take full responsibility for what you're going to do in the Trinity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr Karamanlis, and respect for speaking time. The rapporteur for the PASOK Democratic Assent - DIMAR Mr Ioannis Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Swaziland, Mongolia, Kyrgyzstan are the countries that together with Greece Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Spirtzi are under the 60th world attraction of investment. Mr. Tsipras Greece was in its sixty-seventh place last year and this year it fell five more steps in the seventeenth place. Now, Greece is with Mongolia and Kyrgyzstan, when FYROM next to us is in the tenth place and Turkey in the forty-third place. The government of Mr Tsipras and Mr Spirtzis gives 600,000 euros to the concession agreement for 'Eleftherios Venizelos'. When the decision is sent to the European Competition Committee, it is returned as unacceptable and the EUR 480,000,000, is carried out on the mandate of the European Union Competition Committee 1,1 billion. We have a gift of 600,000,000 euros to the concession of "Eleftherios Venizelos". We have ten thousand real estate in the state at the supreme colonial office. For now, the Acropolis and the White Tower have escaped. But how do you know? SYRIZA has before him several months to rule. In urban transport, in 2014, we have a cumulative surplus of 20,000,000 euros. In urban transport with Mr. Tsipras and Spirtzi, in 2017, we have a deficit of 100,000,000 euros that the ordinary citizen will pay for. On the metro of Athens, on the best metro in Europe, in 2014, sixty trains were in operation. Today, only forty trains are operated and the subway passengers have tripled. On October 25, 2018, we have a Government Newspaper signed by Christos Spirtzis to privatise the rest of the country's twenty-three regional airports, in one way or another, either by PPP or by concession. Well, this is not a sellout of twenty other regional airports and, indeed, of a minister who broke into his clothes for a sale of Greek, etc.Huh? Before going to the very subject of today's debate, I would like to stress that Mr Spirtz has made the honour of a recent interview to refer to me personally and to say that we have political disagreements. Obviously, we have huge political disagreements with the strippers and bolts. And, of course, we have huge political disagreements with Ministers who are tolerating to the Ministerial Council their extreme right-wing partner Pano Kammenos to tell them that Soros is "graining" them with 500,000,000 euros and not resurrecting them. There are obviously huge political disagreements with these ministers and with this government. To get to the subject of today's contract, to make something clear from the beginning. There's not a single Greek who doesn't want to take advantage of the Triasy. Obviously the Triumph must be exploited, because it is a national objective for Greece to be an important transit hub in the Balkans and not just. However, the proper use of Triasiou and the gifts of some millions of euros, which are included in specific articles in the Convention, which we will obviously vote against. In his previous position, the Honourable Minister for Transport and Infrastructure, Mr. Spirtzis, told me that I was taken away because I grew up next to the Theatre of Epidaurus and I speak of theatre scenes. Yes, I am proud to grow up next to the Theatre of Epidaurus and to see dozens of Greek tragedies written two and a half thousand years ago. But what I do not want is to live measles written by the hand of Mr Spirtzi and Mr Tsipras, such as the one we have in front of us. Let's move on to this. Firstly, the first competition for the Triumph took place in 2006-2009. The benefit of the Greek State was EUR 77 million. The second competition was signed by Mr. Spirtzi in November 2015 and concerned a concession for fifty years with a total benefit of EUR 63 million. The third competition took place after a year, in June 2016, with the signature of Mr. Spirtzi again. We've got a 51% reduction in public benefit. 63 million is made of 31 million. What's he hiding? I will soon go through various proofs that I have tabled to the committee, because our position on these issues is already on the table and with documents, so that I can get to the latter. Secondly, an alternative offer was submitted by the company concerned which is prohibited and withdrawn. And what was the alternative offer asking? Get the company out of the municipal fees, HICP fees, etc. And after he's retired, he's done the favor by law anymore. Again, the House should "wash out" requests for concessionaries. We have own funds in the company's proposal to offer this table with binding funds. It is committed to offering equity funds of EUR 36 million and the contract becomes 10.8. What about the other 20? Loans guaranteed by the public, the Greek people, namely the Greek citizen. As far as renewable energy sources and waste management facilities are concerned, we have no reference to the notice so that no one knows it. However, in the contract that comes, we have another 'gift'. And the possibility of installing renewable energy sources and solid and liquid waste management units - caution - not only for the users of the freight centre, but also for the use of third parties, that is to say, of selling services to third parties. As far as the letter of guarantee is concerned, it is a letter of guarantee called'multi-level' and a letter of guarantee is withdrawn - listen to me! - and in favour of the concessionaire. How many times has this been done in public contracts? Six remarks. We have a resignation of the Greek State on the basis of the contract by a body of articles of the Civil Code, where the Greek State commits that for the next sixty years a series of more than ten articles of the Civil Code will not claim them, even if the concessionaire is not consistent with its obligations. It is a commitment for sixty years of the Greek state. Terms of construction of Triasios. We are told by the honourable Minister that all the construction will be two hundred and thirty-five thousand square meters and this one alone. Of course - small detail - the build-up coefficient is increased from 0.4 to 1.65, the coverage coefficient from 40% to 60%, the volume factor from 4 to 8.25 and the allowable height from thirteen to nineteen and, where appropriate, twenty-four. But let's even forget that, because what I said did not exist in the tender notice, they went back in. Article 18.1.3: ‘The overall construction of T1 and T2 structures shall be of two hundred and thirty-five thousand square metres’. Yes, sir. Take note of the article: 'Without prejudice to Article 16.5.A'. What's this article? It's an article that didn't exist in the original notice. So this article begins and says that we can transfer investments and constructions that existed during the period when there was no public guarantee, in the first period being built with the public guarantee. So it's talking about the whole of construction. Article 1.1.45 new term: ‘additional structures’. What does "additional structures" mean? Construction which was not in either the contract notice or the original offer. Who are these? How much area will they have? How much volume? Article 1.1.45 does not say so. However, Article 2.2.1.A states that the concessionaire may manufacture new buildings until the most favourable conditions and construction restrictions are exhausted without payment of additional consideration to the Greek State. I mean, he built three times more, but the government won't collect anything without consideration. In 15.3.4 it even gives it the right to buildings that do not exist, there is not the term "additional structures", but it gives it the right to choose freely from the manufacturer. And a question from an article that does not exist: What happens after the end of the contract? The contract ends in sixty years, where will these additional structures go? Evil law! So they don't go back to the Greek state, the concessionaire keeps them for himself. And how much money will he receive from the use of these extra structures? Unknown. Everything in his pocket. Is the public in exchange for the commercial use of additional structures? Zero! And I come, ladies and gentlemen, to the very top act of the scandal that we have before us. Decision of the Board of Directors of GAIAOSE dated 7 June 2016, which took a protocol number on 20-2-2017, after eight - nine months, and posted in “DIAGY” - when do you say? - 21-3-2018! In other words, the main decision of the Board of Directors of GAIAOSE on the company’s leading investment was taken and posted in DIAGY after a year and a half. So we ask the Minister: 'What happened, Mr Minister?' The Minister responds to the committee and it is registered: "The poor GAIAOSE could not, because he had no staff to register in the 'DIAGY' decision." We also well believe him, but we are doing a quick investigation, have other decisions taken by GIAOSE have been recorded at the same time. On 16-9-2016, at the same time, there is a post on DIANE by GIAOSE: ‘Reassignment of services to a single-person company of EUR 2,021’. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr President, I will also use time from my dentistry. Second decision dated 16-6-2016, at the same time as the top decision of the company and its post at the “DIAGY” on 21-6-2016, after five days: What does it say? "We decide to award independent legal services amounting to 14,000 euros to the lawyer in Thessaloniki chiefly." I'm filing it in the Minutes. And we now come to what the company has posted on the big issue we are discussing today. Listen: I recall that the decision of the board of directors has not yet been posted to the competition notice and tender documents. But what's up? As of 25-7-2016, the Board of Directors’ decision and posted on “DIAGIA” on 1-8-2016. What does the CEO decide? He shall designate himself and two other members as the committee for the receipt of tenders, for the verification of supporting documents and for the evaluation of the tenderers of the project. How many times have you seen this, ladies and gentlemen, the CEO nominating himself to appoint a committee chairman, to a three-member committee - not even seven-member or nine-member - and this decision to post it to the 'DIAGY', but not to post the decision of its board of directors? I come to the Minutes and make that decision. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why, have they not posted the board's decision? But, because here's the trigger rock. Decision of the Management Board: ‘Note 5: Payment by the concessionaire of a one-off financial consideration – entry fee of EUR 20 million’. In the contract we have the contractor is obliged to pay only half of the money, just 10 million euros. And what does the Board of Directors continue to say? ‘Note 9: The interim guarantee letter of good execution is also reasonably EUR 20 million.’ How much guarantee letter is there in the contract before us? It's 10 million euros. Is that a crystal scandal or isn't it? Will the Members of Parliament agree to vote in favour of a scandalous contract which reduces the public's benefit and actually cancels the entire tender, given that a contract is to be signed that is completely outside the decision of the board of directors of the body which opens the tender, yes or no? With these, ladies and gentlemen, you realise that it is not just impossible to vote in favour of the convention that we have before us - and we denounce it - but we hope that other institutions also listen to and follow this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u55	The Minister for Education, Mr Gavroglou, has the floor to present an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. These are two articles. The first article is harmonisation with the provisions of two laws - one of 2010 and the other of 1996 - on mobilisation of permanent teaching on transfer issues. It is clear that nothing will change for those in the second year to which the moleculosis they have already received is the case. The second article concerns the possibility of payment of assistant teachers, part-time teachers, as well as special educational and special assistant staff, to be made using the national section of the Public Investment Programme which is for our additional needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, forty-nine students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st General High School in California. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, Mr Ilias Panagiotaros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. It was November 1, 2013, after two young people, George Fountoulis and Manolis Kapelonis accepted a cowardly, organised, coordinated, para-stated, "progressive" murder attack outside the Golden Dawn offices in New Heraklion. It's been five years since. There was no attempt by the state to find the guilty, the murderers, the physicists and the morals. And all of this despite the fact that there was a feature of one of the two killers, a very serious movement problem, so in terms of research the lanes could be closed down to very few suspects of the underworld - and not just - in order to find at least one of the two. It's such a small strip of suspects that are measured in less than the fingers of one hand. It was when your dear friend - Mr. Protesteris of the "MEGA" - said that "yes, it was dangerous all this effort, because no man could have been killed. " It's like both boys were animals or something! On October 28, 2018, another lad, Konstantinos Katsifas, from the slave Northern Epirus, from the Bulgarians, died consciously for his homeland, for Greece, for his enslaved special homeland, for the flag. We also saw the para-state here, his "palaces" trying to smash this hero, the modern new witness, with various lies, with various arrowbolics, etc., with the top of all that he allegedly had been arrested for possession of half a kilo of hashish and various other craps, while none of that was true. Constantine Katsifas managed to do something very important: All Greeks throughout the world have learned, all over the globe - some knew it, some people knew it - that there are enslaved Greek territories next to our northern borders, areas where they have been living purely Greek for thousands of years and are trying to get in touch with the mother Greece, but the Greek state is deafing, doing nothing. He gave value to the struggles he gave and his ancestors on October 28, 1940, unlike the dozens of officials who were in the cemetery in the Bulgarians, Greeks and Albanians, who all went together, said they were gone as if nothing had happened, while the incident had happened. A Greece which, unfortunately, dies in all respects. Just in the morning, a former companion of the Minister who just left, Mr. Pangalos, said on television "welcome to him by Constantine Katsifa". Various other little boys came out, many of them paid by the Greek State, such as "bouquets" to "ET3" that said and wrote the worst of this young man. We are talking about a country that collapses at all levels. It collapses demographically, collapses nationally, collapses morally, collapses in all respects. The Greek people are an angry people, but unable to do anything. That is why you, gentlemen of the coup d'état, deserveful followers of the previous ones, can also sell everything out in this country against a lentil plate, without any reaction on the substance, as in this bill. It's another contract, a huge investment, as you call it. Of course, the "great" has been done for decades since the Greek people, when all construction costs were borne by the Greek State, by Greek taxpayers. It's one of those investments that really upgrade a country's economy and society. But there is a huge 'but', and we are explaining. The Greek State, as we said, has paid too much until this contract between the Greek State and its companies and some private companies comes. The new, within many introductorys, 'investor' that comes, actually pays crumbs, not to say anything. He receives a huge investment and will be used exclusively. It's all good for him. We'll explain what we're talking about. We have heard them from some previous Vice-Presidents too. Of course, when they were in the government, they said other things, but that doesn't matter. This investment has been granted for decades, for over 60 years, to the new investor. The terms of this contract? At best, colonialists. Unfortunately, Greece has been entering into contracts with private individuals for several years, with colonial conditions exclusively for those who pay - they are not paying anything - and not the Greek public. In such terms, gentlemen of the government, there will always be investors to do your part and say that investment is being made in Greece. This convention, as we have heard in the committees, and we have also mentioned it, is found by a large number of anti-constitutional terms, articles and others. We're starting with some simple things. There is a contract for a business in the area of the multitude Triasios Field, where some residents in the regions of the Egyptian Republic, Mandra, etc., who in recent decades have experienced an absolute downgrading of their area, see a new investor not paying municipal fees, while the last poorer living in the area, whether private or professional, pays municipal fees. We see the sale you do, if we look at the costs, how much someone has to buy in the area. When the average in the wider area is EUR 122 the square meter for a combination of buildings and when on the street 100 euros are given for the area and 450 euros for the buildings, without the rest of the benefits, you give it for a much smaller amount. By Law 4530/2018, the building coefficient for real estate property or management of ‘GAIAOSE’ was set at 1,65 instead of 0,4 that applied when the notice was published. The maximum coverage was increased to 60% instead of 40% at the time of publication of the notice and the maximum allowable for nineteen measures instead of thirteen and a half measures in force when the notice was published. If you want to give it to the investor, as you want to give it, you could include the entire area with these build-up factors, the coverage rate and anything else. In other words, think of a professional who is active in transport and has an area outside the space we are talking about, that he cannot do the corresponding construction work, as the new owner will do. Even the last Greek knows that all Greek citizens are equal to the laws and the Constitution and must apply to all the same data, not a card as is done in this bill, because that is why. Also, in real estate property of GAIAOSE, or property managed by GAIAOSE, in accordance with Law 3891/2010, as in force and in which commercial centres are being developed, the following conditions and restrictions of construction shall apply by way of derogation from any other general or special provision, act or decision, as we have said. This means, in practice, that the overall capacity of construction has increased, which has reached ninety thousand square meters since the initial two hundred and thirty-five thousand square meters. Here, of course, there is something else. The initial contract, which also went to the Council of State and received approval, has changed greatly in relation to the final contract which comes, signed and will be passed today by the Greek Parliament. That reminds us of what had happened before. The Minister - and we repeat that he is not here - as a deep PASOK which was until the beginning, should remember when the signatures entered in 1996 for Eleftherios Venizelos airport, as well as the colonial terms there, which the Greek State understood about twenty years later, when HOCHTIEF never paid municipal fees, never paid the VAT received from all those who went to the airport, never paid him back to the Greek State and the Greek State was damaged at about 500,000,000 euros. However, because the contract was so designed, when Greece resorted to the courts in Europe, to referee, it lost the case. Now, with this bill you get all the bad texts of the previous ones, the imperfections, the gaps and you try to legitimise them by putting them in the contract. We also see in this contract the Greek State being a guarantor of EUR 150,000. In other words, the investor will do business, he will do business, and if he falls out, in the end he will pay the Greek state. We have seen and heard some numbers, which also exist within the contract. The public now pays 36,000 euros to get after sixty years of EUR 31,000,000. SYRIZA's rapporteur advertised that the Greek State would get the minimum guaranteed price of EUR 6,000 per year. These numbers are crumbs for such a huge investment using exclusively from the new investor. Another important part that shows how you see the investment in our country and how you have written in the oldest of your shoes - not to say anything - of all kinds of small and medium-sized ones is that you have set in the contract conditions for fast track procedures, for a card to simplify bureaucracy. Of course, we are not talking about anyone who has to open a pavilion must have a tricycle with supporting documents and run days, weeks or months to get permissions. On the contrary, the new investor will do all of this without there being anything at all, no problem. And if there is a problem, then automatically, on the basis of this contract, there will be a magic stick that will help him overcome all these difficulties. Nice competition rules, gentlemen of the government! We keep telling you this: how it is done in all these public fillets, as you say, the gold mines, that there is always only one investor in the end! One for the ports, one for the airports, one for the OSE's freight centre, one for everything! This is not free competition, for which you and the previous ones speak so much. This is rules of trade in North Korea, that is to say, only one at a time until we get to the end, because there were surely other people who were flying out your way to do the work with those you want. Here we need to comment a little on what the rapporteur of the New Democracy said. The New Democracy that has voted for all the expropriations of public property so far, and Eleftherios Venizelos, the Greek, the "COSCO", the airports, the ports, whatever, spoke about the independent authorities. The Golden Dawn has to say about the independent authorities that they are the most dependent, and if not always in relation to the respective government, they are dependent on those who impose on the Greek governments who will sell, who will sell, who will sell, who will they give, who will they grant. We have also heard a comment about the fact that the current conflict has not brought any great work and that all these are works by the New Democracy and by the PASOK. Let us remind you of one that we will speak briefly. It's the Refreshment of the Fallen Horm. It started with over EUR 300 million, and from what we have learned, excesses in project costs have already begun. This is done by decision of the region and the Ministry. What's going on there is another matter. Who took the works is all known. What will happen at the end of the day, the beads that have been thrown to the people to convince them that everything is fine, but in the course of the process, it is something that we are going to discuss. And we are saying that even this convention is the definition of absolute clandestineness. All the procedures must be completed on 31 March, because otherwise as a country we will pay a very large fine. Of course, by 31 March most likely, nothing has happened at all. Lies, too, for the jobs as you used to say about the LAG, as he said about the Greek, etc. Promise rabbits with rocks. The jobs will be, if ever, specific to the well-known new terms of employment contracts, etc. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also use the dentistry, Mr President. Give me three minutes. Thank you. You are talking about reducing the cost of transport, the cost of transporting the products for the benefit of the disposal price. The experience of recent years has so far shown that, where there is a lot of 'free competition' - the 'free competition' within many importing countries - product prices are rising, they are not decreasing. You'll see the cartels on mobile phone, cartel here, cartel there, cartel everywhere. We've become an absolute Colombia. We have heard the SYRIZA rapporteur, who said that some benefits should have been included in the Municipality of Aspropyrgos, for the inhabitants of the region. But they should be the alpha and the omega at first, because they experience the absolute chaos every day in their area, which of course you also have written where they don't get ink. Unfortunately or happily, gentlemen of SYRIZA, the Independent Greeks - or what remains of the Independent Greeks - of the New Democracy and of PASOK are exactly the same. You are the same, gentlemen of the coexistence, as the ones you despised and sprinkled up to the January of 2015. As for the fact that we got out of the memorials and the development comes and that everything goes to clock, we see it every day where the departure of Greek businesses abroad continues at a normal rate. The very big ones are changing tax bases, the smaller ones are leaving as they are and going to neighbouring countries. And how can they not go, once again in the new report published, in the 'Doing business' report, Greece, since last year, has fallen five places, from the 60th to the seventeenth? We are in the thirty-ninth place in the issue of building permits. Much easier to make a building licence in Zimbabwe than it will make, even though it has all the necessary documents in Greece. For the start of a business, we are in the forty-fourth place. We're going through incredible countries that we don't have to mention. In tax payment, we're in sixty-five. You've ripped anyone off. Repeat. Those who can leave and those who can't go close. It's very simple. We are in the ninety-ninth place in receiving credit and in the thirty-third place in the application of contracts. A few months have remained until elections are held, by alpha or beta, so that the Greek people can express their opinion and send your views, positions on either national or other issues, to send this coup d'état to the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u59	Mr Konstantinos Tsiaras is calling for a short-day absence from today 1 November 2018 until Monday 5 November 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u60	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, rapporteur for the Communist Party of Greece, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. About a year ago in Elefsina, the government organized a development conference, where the Prime Minister announced a series of aid measures in the supply chain as well. It was named by the trade unions and institutions in the region calling for mobilisation. And yes, many gathered, stressing that the real reason for the conference was not to strengthen workers who were drowned by the disasters, meaning the recent major flooding and the dead in Mandra, but was to strengthen the region of Triasios as a transit and industrial centre. The real reason was to discuss, in other words, how this policy will be strengthened, which has created the problem in the region from the outset, with the sole criterion of multiplying the profits of co-operativeism, granting them even larger areas of land, mountains, ravages, etc. And they noted that the projects that, in fact, people and workers in the region need, so that they do not risk in the first boulevard or at risk of fires and earthquakes, are inconsistent with businessmen, and their parties are not rewarding, they will not leave profits. And they concluded that the people's needs are on the reverse of capitalist profitability. Of course, if they had read the contents of the concession agreement, which is the current draft law, they would have seen that precisely for this capitalist profitability the business groups are fighting for, for who is going to start with it. That is why competition and contradictions have increased. It seemed quite openly in the debate on the bill, since it was marked by the strong confrontation and attack of the opposition parties that the concession agreement is a scandal. In fact, even resignations were requested. Of course they did not repeat them today. The biggest scandal, however, is your anti-Flemish policy, which brings poverty and suffering to the people's strata and more profits for capital. And this is what you all serve. Because, of course, we are not talking about the five hundred eighty-eight acres of state land that is being given obediently, but about the added value that will be created in them and who will be fruitful of it. Value added from cargo storage, cross-border use sorting, study, construction and financing of the centre, operation and exploitation of it, definition of commercial, business and pricing policy, construction and operation of electricity and solid, liquid waste, construction of buildings and installations with a structural factor of four times that of the region, construction of infrastructural infrastructure, railway and road networks, electricity networks, communications, and within the real estate railway projects to connect to the national railway infrastructure. That is why the competition in the urban camp is so great and escalating that the capitalist profit of this great private business project will be fruited. In fact, competition is so intense, although there is agreement and unanimity on its creation, but there is a long delay in many years and with several problematic tenders at a different price. However, contradictions and competition create delays in the implementation of your common vision and plan, in order to show the country to a hub of goods and energy transport. And of course through the memorials to limit just such delays, you go in the form of a fast track, but also with out-court regulation. You do the same with a few amendments you have tabled and it is a challenge. I am also talking about the amendment on the Greek and the Aegean, which we will be saying more about in secondary terms. However, we call it clear. The working class and the populace must not be trapped in choosing a competitor, that is to say, their exploiter. Because everyone has a united and unanimous view on the exploitation of the labour force. Moreover, it is typical of what the Association of Greek Industrialists, shipowners and bankers are asking today, and it is to reduce the so-called labour costs, reduce their insurance contributions and tax burdens, and that is what you are doing in the budget, extend the elastic working hours, maintain hunger wages and attract more investment. And that's what you're doing. In addition, in May 2017, the Government implemented the national strategic transport plan, aiming, in particular, at promoting combined transport, modernising port connections with internal rail networks and freight centres, completing the main roads, rail and European networks, in particular the Balkans and developing the Logistics sector in the Greek logistics chain. In this context, therefore, the frameworks are the concession contract for the freight centre in Thriasio, which, if implemented, will change the production structure of Attica. It is precisely for this reason that the competition which occurs within the House by different parties is also growing. Of course the wealth produced over the years has never shared with the workers who created it nor will it be done as long as the law of capitalist profit operates as the capitalist way of production operates. This is what you do in many ways and in legislation. How the added value is ensured, it seems to privatize the fillet earth and the concession conditions, yet some of them avoiding them and others. I'm talking about the other opposition parties. You are therefore briefly assured: First, an increase in freight by combined transport in the chosen strategic geographical location of Thriasio, served by major roads such as Attiki Street, NATO Avenue and railway lines, from the refined station in New Iconio. Secondly, concentration and concentration of trade and crazy profits to the few. Thirdly, the establishment by monopolies of costs, entry-exit prices and, of course, the impact of what the people's family will have on the table. Fourthly, additional and profitable actions from the exploitation of the liberalised waste energy sector and others. Fifthly, a guarantor of public and tax exemptions accompanying such concessions - contracts and resulting from development law. Otherwise, the IMO makes financial control and charge to the Piraeus ELME, with confiscation on the computer. It wasn't even a multinational! And what's wrong with an ELME? Management of subscriptions. Shame on you! But it's one way to chase the pioneer trade unionists. Know they're not afraid of you. They're not scared! Today they go to protest in the courts, and we're with them. Sixth, as far as the low price for the size of this goodwill you are going to create is really humiliating. And that's the price he's coming back to business full. Nothing in the popular layers. Seven, four times the build-up rate at a cost, further reducing the few free spaces left in the already burdened Triumph, and under no circumstances can they clean it up from pollution. Eighth, exemption from municipal lighting and cleaning charges, while these will be paid by small and medium-sized professionals already in the area. Ninth, legislative guaranteeing that workers will be with cracked labour rights, without the employer being obliged to work in collective agreements, but by a unilateral working regulation, it will determine everything on the basis of a profit maximisation basis from a slower exploitation of labour. This is, moreover, a fair development that you are propagandaing and presupposing work ghettos. Any strategic designs and master plan of consortia and monopolies for your development presuppose an unconditional attack on any employment right to increase the degree of labour exploitation. Tenth, of course, the self-employed professionals of the industry will disappear with a pill of the majesty, as a whole changes the landscape, making the living conditions of the working folk families in the surrounding areas worsen. In the case of the one-off, in exchange for 10 million and 2.5% of gross annual income, 50% goes to the excess and 50% to the other to the investors who have free money. There is nothing left for the needs of the people's families in the wider region. For all this, however, you have no disputes between you two. You agree on the planning for the conversion of the country into a regional freight hub and the implementation of the required infrastructure, since it serves capitalist profitability on the one hand and on the other hand the closely linked objective of the geostrategic upgrading of the domestic urban order. Is that not what you did with the port of Piraeus, which was given in part by the governments of New Democracy and PASOK? And now you're talking about a sale! This is what the Trinity is called today. Of course the crime was completed by the current government, giving the rest of it from the port of Piraeus, the largest port in the Eastern Mediterranean. Of course, the Chinese monopoly is asking to have everything and define everything. It only stumbles on the fact that there are other big players, and here the competitions are vibrant, which appear in the chambers of the House. One day you speak and press the Chinese monopoly and the next visit by the American Ambassador! The SYRIZA - ANEL Government is trying to manage the major contradictions of its policy, since, on the one hand, it seeks to become an effective signifier of NATO and US projects in the Balkans and the Eastern Mediterranean, while, on the other, it seeks to turn the country into a basic portal for the transfer of Chinese goods to the European Union. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] The more the economic and political competition is exacerbated between the US, China and the European Union, the more the issues that the government is trying to resolve to serve the interests of the Greek ruling class are complicated. We know, therefore, that this privatisation will not satisfy the people's needs nor improve traffic, nor will there be any new infrastructure for people's needs, nor will the position and working hours of the self-employed and small shops in the region be improved. On the contrary, the building centre and the area will be enclosed with economic walls from the degraded people's neighborhoods. It is clear who they are and who they will benefit. The human exploitation system cannot be humanized and cannot be prologue either in the phase of crisis or in the period of development. That is why we do not believe in the tale that there is a fair growth that can both benefit the victims of capitalist exploitation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the question of development, therefore, two roads conflict. The current capitalist development path that exacerbates the deadlocks and the other one proposed by the JRC, the socialist communist, focusing on meeting the ever-enlarged, social and people's needs. So in the question “Development for whom? For monopolies or for the people?’ We are determinedly answering for the people and revealing the fairy tale that they may coexist both. We are therefore voting against the bill and its articles in addition to the first paragraph of Article 3, which allow for the possibility of returning to supervised bodies of the Ministry of Transport, Control and Movement of Trains that have been transferred to public and local authorities. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] In conclusion, we also ask that the fired people working in beds be included through contractors who have covered standing organic needs for years and have been on the unemployment road. They're not even 20 people. It could therefore be done by legislative improvement, as proposed by the Panhellenic Rail Federation, and which we are tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] We are voting against the articles in principle. I shall be speaking in my dentistry about the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u62	We're moving on with the special speaker of ANLL, Mr. Katsiki. Here, Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I thought it was a lady in the Chamber, but finally I found that it is two - the introduction of a clear legislative framework for the development of a freight centre in the Triumph, in accordance with the proposed regulations laid down in the draft law, is an undertaking, promoted by the leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and aims to change our country's transport data. It also aims to highlight it in a European and international transit hub. The new Thariassio freight centre will give its operation a great added value in the field of combined transport. After all, it is common knowledge that the road transport sector in our country needs institutional upgrading and modernisation for many years, both in relation to European standards in the transport and storage sector, that is, logistics, as well as to the needs of the local communities of Greece, the protection of labour rights, the fight against unemployment, technological modernisation and the safeguarding of the public interest. That contract, signed, ladies and gentlemen, on 30 July 2018 and referred to the real estate of GAIAOSE, of an area of approximately five hundred eighty acres and located in Thriasian Field, is granted for use for sixty years in the public limited company ‘Thriasio Merchant Centre’ set up for the purposes of that concession. The amount of this investment project is about EUR 200 million and its implementation will be the starting point for a better tomorrow. The concession price will be credited to the GAIAOSE public utility company with a shareholder in the Greek State, amounting to 10 million euros to be paid one-off. However, over the last sixty years, 2,51% of the revenues will be paid annually, which will not be less than EUR 350,000. So I think that this time we should all think about the national interest and the needs of our country and not insist on small political purposes, which - naively or otherwise - put it importantly. In other words, we must support the implementation of direct investments totalling at least EUR 130 million, of which the first 70 million will be invested in the first two years and the remaining 60 over an eight-year period. The implementation of this project, as I think it is clear, is a decision - a station in our country's development time, as it gives the green light to its international claims. As far as the positive effects of both Attica and the whole of Greece are concerned, it is a lot and abundant: Initially, the construction of this centre will highlight the important geostrategic position of Greece as the crossroads of continents at European and international level, which will enhance its competitiveness. This plot has been strategically located near Athens and the port of Piraeus, one of the most important ports of the Mediterranean since the ancient times and the attraction of many business movements and tourists. It is still directly connected by rail with the European network, as well as by road with the Attica Road and the rest of the country's national network, making Greece a modern transit hub and a national diamond. The creation, as predicted, of three to five thousand jobs will significantly combat unemployment, particularly in the western Attica, but also, in general, unemployment which has been plagued by our country in recent years, leading to extreme situations of impoverishment and even migration of our productive workforce. How many years do we now monitor our country's productive workforce and scientific capacity to emigrate abroad? Until when will the young people of this country be forced to leave her because of their need for survival, growth and recognition, things that are, of course, normal and consequent, but which, unfortunately, are not always possible in our country? So why should this country not be able to create infrastructure and capabilities so that it can support and promote these people? I, ladies and gentlemen, feel the weight and bitterness - if you like - of any Greek family who is forced to say goodbye to one or more of its members. So this work is a work of great value to me, as it will be able to create jobs, to absorb workers and scientific staff, of course, because of its many and ultramodern functions. I would also like to mention at this point that, in addition to the above, this freight centre will give impetus to the construction industry, while thanks to the excellent and advanced technology used, it will further strengthen our country's until our country has been globally dominated. In addition, the creation of product storage sites will cause a significant reduction in their transport costs and thus reduce their disposal prices, which will promote better operation of the supply chain and benefit consumers and our country's economy in general. It is now known that its creation was and continues to be a prerequisite for national economic policy, since this will help the country's development path. Therefore, what was said at previous meetings, but also at this plenary sitting, comes to the conclusion that Greece in general and the Triumph in particular, meets all the requirements and favours the construction of the mathematical centre. It remains, therefore, the obligation of the state to establish a legal framework which supports its implementation and promotes its purpose. By introducing this draft law at a time when the national economy is determined by the past economic crisis, the government, in my opinion, makes its vote, ladies and gentlemen, imperative. This project has many implications, both financial and social, as I said before. Greek citizens will not only regain hopes and faith in a government that cares about their fairness and interest. We must not, therefore, find ourselves on the opposite side or create other obstacles, but instead we must support projects of such standards, which bring us closer to the pulse of modern Greek society and help us achieve the difficult work that we have undertaken as a coexistence, namely the exit of Greece from the crisis and the restoration of the Greek economy and international competitiveness. It is now time to move on to this large investment project that will open up new horizons, give a breath of renewal and modernisation in the infrastructure and transport sector, and in addition will significantly strengthen our country's economy. Now is the time when we must help and do what we all promised together, but also everyone in the Greek people personally, if we do not want to speak, I would fall on the wing. In this effort, the Independent Greeks are partners and helpers and we are voting in favour of this draft law, defending the national interest, the prestige and the improvement of the quality of life of Greek citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, too. We're moving on with Mr. Amyras, a special speaker of the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. I shall be brief, because I have mentioned the contract and the matter with the committees. I think we had a productive conversation with Mr. Spirtzi. We consider that the logistics sector is very important for our country because of its geopolitical position. Seven years ago the famous study of McKinsey "Greece: Ten years ahead", that is, "Greece 10 years later", had the logistics industry within the upcoming stars of the sectors of the Greek economy that should be developed. Since 2001 there have been seven competition notices, so that we can get to today's result. In 2002 on Simitis, in 2004 on Karamanlis, in 2009 on Georgios Papandreou, in 2012 on Samaras and finally in 2016 the ETVA scheme with GOLDAIR CARGO proceeded for five hundred and sixty-six acres. I'm not sure what the extent is, exactly, but it's about ninety soccer fields. It goes without saying, therefore, that such investments help the Greek economy. But it must be done on a competitive basis, otherwise there is no point in conducting competitions. We, therefore, say very specifically that as a river, we voted for Law 4530/2018, which refers to a provision of this law, in the building coefficient only for GAIAOSE property or management property. The building coefficient was therefore fixed by this Convention at 1.65% instead of 0.4% in the original publication. So four times the total area of operation has actually been quadruple, I will say rather than building, and the concessionaire can exploit more squarely in a commercial way. I understand that it is a great deal new that the technical specifications are, the containers have other dimensions than twenty years ago, but that should not in any way have been known by those who participated in the tender beyond the concessionaire. Also in the new amended GAIAOSE Convention - we discussed it very thoroughly in committee - Article 16.5.A which did not exist in the original contract, enables the contractor to bring the works for the second period to the first. Yes, but this - I had wondered, and then - will it not increase the concessionaire's company's lending? And the agency is guaranteed by the Greek State against weakening the private capital. That is why the initial binding investment appears to be EUR 36.1 million, but the final investment falls to EUR 10.8 million. I would very much like to bring here to our horizon, in our visual field, what the Mayor of Egypt had also mentioned at the meeting of the Committee on Institutions. The infrastructure there is not enough to absorb vibrations from such an investment. In practice, aspropyrgos has just acquired a general urban plan in 1996, so too many businesses in this area have been scattered into Aspropyrgos. Since 1996, however, a number of logistics companies have been created to the north of the Attica Road, but they cannot even obtain permission from a storage and distribution centre necessary for the operation of the logistics. So these businesses that are currently operating will not be in a second degree and at a disadvantage vis-à-vis the freight centre? Is competition on an equal footing or are there two categories of undertakings? As far as environmental problems are concerned, this issue is extremely important to me. The traffic of heavy goods vehicles will be quadrupled. Where's all this gas going? In the area. I do not see any provision for investment in green so that the suspended particles, carbon dioxide and all other environmental charges that will be clearly borne by the citizens of the region are absorbed. Reward says the Municipality of Aspropyrgos is asking for a return. What will be the benefit of not profit but of reducing environmental damage? With regard to what has been said by previous colleagues, that is to say the possibility of introducing renewable energy sources for electricity production. Electricity as referred to in the contract will not only be for self-consumption, but also for resale, as stated in paragraph 2.2, which states: ‘for the service of users of the particular park and for the sale of electricity to third parties’. Because we have heard the Minister say to the committees that photovoltaics will be on roofs for their own use, it appears here that they will also be for marketing, as these energy results can be resold to third parties. Now the same applies to the waste and solid waste management facilities not only for on-site waste but also to third parties in general under the same paragraph. These possibilities were not in the original notice and therefore the question arises is. Could we not increase the price with these additional concessions? Or if these extra concessions were to exist from the outset, would they create an additional interest so that there would be more companies that would claim the project? In conclusion, we are positive to every investment that serves the public interest and is done in terms of transparency, merits long-term and not short-term prospects for society, the economy in general and not just in the region. The big bet is the attraction of investment in this country and, in order to do this, we must combat bureaucracy, the corruption of the small and the big ones and establish transparency, as the passport that can go everywhere in this country, so that we do not all get hurt, when we see in the international indicators our country plummeting positions in the investment climate, the ability to attract foreign investors and no longer just foreigners, because this is where there is a tombstone in many areas of the Greek economy and Greek investors. Now I want to say a few words about the amendments. I shall begin with the Greek amendment. This amendment replaces the references to No 4062/2012 by No 4495/2017. The references also to contours of buildings and facilities with descriptors of buildings. This amendment also provides for a single environmental impact study, which will take into account the overall estimated sizes of the capacity of projects or activities serving the entire metropolitan park. The provisions on environmental conditions for individual projects and activities are abolished. I will tell you clearly, I am positive about simplifying procedures and speeding up licensing procedures in order to finally move on with the Greek. I would remind you that Mr Pittsirlas had said that in October, a month ago in substance - with the opportunity to wish a good month, today we have the 1st of the month - the bulldozers would have entered the Greek. We didn't see that. Mr. Pittsorlas fell out. The provisions of this amendment, however, do not appear at first reading to place the legality of the procedures. But it is worth wondering and, indeed, I would like to put it, how would SYRIZA treat any government if it brought such an amendment to simplify procedures only in Greek? As if I were listening to the voices of warning, at the expense of the one who would bring such an amendment. In any case, we see the amendment positively. I come to another point on which the Technical Chamber of Greece has made an announcement. I am looking to find this amendment that will remove the representative of the TEI, the Technical Chamber of Greece, from the committee recommended to the relevant Minister for approval or non-provisional or permanent works and structures on a sanctuary and beach. It's not you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u66	The Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u67	So we do not know whether or not this amendment has been accepted. We need to talk about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u68	The Minister will come and support it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u69	Good. I'll see you when he gets here. So, dear Mr. Spirtzi, I want to tell you about the subway now. I asked you a question yesterday. Because today those who want to go to the airport "Eleftherios Venizelos" or go from "Eleftherios Venizelos" to the center of the city in Athens must change a car at the station of Dukissis Placentia. This is because it is not enough for airports - to call it this way - wagons as the metro extends to Nice. That's the reason. But that's gonna happen months later. The first thing I have to ask is this: why are we doing this change from now on? Second, when will this suffering cease? This thing shouldn't stay forever. I also see people who are serious who are writing on Facebook with their name their experience and what they are dealing with today in changing the wagon, in the post-carriage. There was no English announcement. Tourists didn't know what to do. There was only one paper announcement at the top of the rolling stairs, because you had to go across to get the next subway to St. Marina. In any case, if I don't multilingualize, there was a great deal of hardship. The "ATITORIAL MEASURES" must have people there and explain. And soon we return to the main advantage of the city's subway, that you can go and come from the airport, whether you're a tourist or a citizen of the city, without changing a car in the middle or towards the end of the route. That's what I had to tell you. We are at the moment in 'the present'. And I will hear your speech and be more specific in the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, too. We move on to Mr Georgiadis, a special speaker of the Union of Centres and Vice-President of the Parliament. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. You will allow me to make a reference before I begin my speech, because we as the Central Association honor the fifty years of the death of George Papandreou, who, as today, left life. He was the man who founded the party that we are now representing in the Greek Parliament and was a man who has remained in history for his undeniable struggle, for how democrat he was and how much he was interested in Greece, his country and his fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that during the debate on the draft law the only one we have all agreed on is the need to complete this work, which is also a request for bodies and society for at least four decades. This is because, with the completion of this project, it will become a major partner in the transport and logistics sector. This is clearly a project of strategic importance with multiple development prospects, which goes far beyond the country's borders and which will contribute to increasing freight rail transport by rail and, of course, highlighting Greece as a strong factor in the supply chain and a major freight portal to the rest of Europe. Apart from this provision that we are discussing, the upgraded services, we must take into account the following positive points, and then I shall go to the negative. The good news is that at least three thousand jobs, as has been said by all, are expected to open. We will also have a reduction in transport costs, which means that, in fact, the cost of the final product will also be reduced, so in the end, we will also benefit the final consumers, but in general, there will also be an increase in the competitiveness of our economy. And clearly another positive one is the upgrading of the Triasian Field, but also of the wider area, with all the added value it will give. But today's draft law, Minister, reminds the Greek Parliament of the same thing that was passed a few weeks ago. This is about the speed with which the SYRIZANEL Government operates. I would remind you that the current government is the one that in 2016, by promoting a framework of water law, was yelling at drum impacts, but it had retreated at that time. We lost two years and started last September from zero, and a large part of the project could already have been completed and could have covered a quite important area of the country's related transport needs. Something similar is now happening with the creation of the investment in the Triumph. In view of the fact that four competitive procedures, namely the requirements and difficulties of the project, have been ahead of us in the past, this three-year delay which we see is not justified, nor the withdrawal from previous positions and contractual terms, is justified. Despite the fact that a fillet is actually being granted, in the contract that the government has come to an end and has unfortunately signed outweighs the negative ones against the positive ones. And what are the negatives? It can be positive for the investor for a very long duration of sixty years of the contract, but this can also create many obstacles to the completion and exploitation of the project. The second is that there is too much differentiation in the final contract in relation to the terms of the contract and that has been mentioned by many colleagues during the committees and I will not go into specific examples at this time. The third negative is the unacceptable, in the Union of Centres, facilities such as the increase in the structural factor. The consortium can build multiple square meters in warehouses, offices, and even sporting facilities could make and exploit all revenues in its favour. There is a creation of a favourable urban, environmental and licensing regime, which is for the benefit of the contractor. Also very important is the non-payment of compensation fees, which will remove resources from the Local Government. In the municipalities where the people will suffer during the construction of the project, you understand that this will be further negative. In addition, you give the contractor the right to produce and trade in electricity, a function which will certainly offer additional revenue without any return and no obligation. The fourth negative is the very low price, which is agreed for the completion of this investment, and the opposition is in agreement with this. And I will be specific: just in exchange for 10 million euros. Annual payment of 2,51% of revenue or at least EUR 350,000 per year for the next sixty years is making us 21 million, so the sum so far is 31 million, and you have 36 million, which is the binding investment, as it is called, within a period of T1 of the first two years, all of which means a total of EUR 67 million. The remaining 155 million, written for a binding offer, are obviously loans with a guarantee from the Greek public, i.e. the Greek people. Therefore, it is very low the price and certainly much lower than what you announced, Minister, three years earlier on 20 November 2015, where in a relevant communication you said that you were launching the development of the Triasy Field freight centre with an investment that would exceed EUR 250 million. I submitted the relevant communication to the committee, to the House and to all Members. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let us not forget that this is an area of six hundred acres, a project size of thirty-five thousand square meters, a strategic location of the freight centre, next to a large motorway, on roads and, even too close to the most central and largest port and near the Athens airport. And this huge project, this comparative advantage for the development of the country, managed by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to grant it at a much lower price than its own limits in 2015. I will also make a reference to the amendments and I will not need any more time for this draft law. We have said too much to the committees too. The only amendment in this respect, Mr Minister, is the general number 1790 and special 40 for the freight railway and sorting station in the Triumph. All the other amendments are irrelevant to the bill. In particular, the amendments with general numbers 1791 and 1792 and experts 41 and 42 respectively, the first concerns the Ministry of Health and CEDEFOP and the second, although signed, concerns the saints. We also have another amendment, Amendment No 1793 and Amendment No 43 on the adaptation of the provisions on building permits which, despite the fact that it will speed up the construction work at the Metropolitan Park of Greece - St. Kosmas, I must say that on the one hand it is coming late and on the other hand we would like further information from the relevant Ministry. Mr President, we sincerely want this project to be carried out very strongly, because we really believe that it will make a significant contribution to the overall development and effort of the country. On the other hand, however, we cannot reward a government which delayed the promotion of the project when it decided, and when it decided to do so, it has done so reluctantly, changed the terms of the tender, offers facilities that should not be used to the investor and, above all, accepted the very low price that could be paid. We have too many reservations and everything leads to the fact that at the end of the day we will vote against at first, on the amendments and on the whole of this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too. Minister, don't you want to talk now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u73	In the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u74	We shall now proceed to the Members' speeches. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr. Apostle Karanastasis, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate concerns the ratification of the concession agreement which will pave the way for the creation and operation of the country's largest freight centre in the Trieste Field, which, according to the Commissioner responsible, Mr Kretsou, has inspected the project, is one of the largest trading centres in Europe and the most modern one, a centre which some of the parties in this Chamber are either trying to downgrade its importance or invest it, in the loving habit, in the unscrupulously supposed scandals or even to prevent it from being created. They forget, of course, that the governments of these same groups have tried to create it in the recent past, to build it without result, as was the case with the majority of the major projects with which they were oppressed and which the SYRIZA government has come to re-start, finance and complete, by rendering their use to the Greek people. Of course, I must add that it is known that our country is now committed to the completion of the contract and part of the construction of the freight centre in the first months of 2019. Failure to complete these two procedures entails a refund of EUR 250 million to the European Commission. This is where it is worth remembering that the first competition procedure for the Trinity took place between 2006 and 2009. There were two candidates. The tender was cancelled because the offer of the Temporary Contractor has been withdrawn. Note that in 2006, in a time of prosperity, the price was set at EUR 1,5 million, while in 2016, in the midst of a crisis, it amounted to EUR 10 million. I imagine that in itself this fact shows how the situation has been handled by the then and the current government. The second competitive procedure took place between 2010 and 2011 and finally the tender was cancelled in 2011, without any tender being submitted. In other words, two competitions, at an extremely low price, came out barren. And I wonder: Was it random? Was it such a bad investment that it could not attract investors' interest? Or was it a way of being pressured by specific interests, to direct the work where they wanted, at the cost of as much as they wanted? I would remind you that we are talking about the 2011 time that some wanted to buy the whole country with 1 euro. The third competition procedure took place in 2012. On the end date of April 2012, two proposals were submitted. Ultimately, due to the elections then, the process has again been cancelled. We are now in the fourth competition procedure, from 2014 to 2018. In 2015 and 2016, the SYRIZA Government changed very important terms of the declaration. There was exhaustive dialogue and an exhaustive consultation, before the competition came out, with all interested parties. A lot of the comments and requests made were included in the changes to the tender. It is worth noting that there have been intense pressures, as the Minister said at the committee meeting, in order to have a single competition for the eighty and eighty acres and for the thousands of five hundred, that is to say, for the total of two thousand two hundred acres. The government did not give in, and I believe we all understand, even though some do, that they do not understand it, that after completing the competitive process chosen, the transit centre, which is at the sidelines of the granted property and which represents an initial investment cost of 300 million, is gaining enormous added value. As far as the price is concerned, as I said before, it is not only low, but it is a multitude of offers at times that, as some colleagues have said, were tied up by sausage dogs. This is what the "destructive" government of SYRIZA, which is destroying public money, as colleagues of the New Democracy and of KINAL are trying to convince us. All I would like to point out is that if these are criticisms of counterpopulation and not questions, they are once again below the circumstances. However, enough of history and reality doomed to others. Let us see, Mr President, what this investment, the freight centre and what it means to the country. For the first time in our country a National Strategic Transport Plan is being developed in cooperation with the European Investment Bank and April 2019 will be completed. At the same time, a strategic plan for logistics was set up. Efforts to achieve cooperation with Member States of the European Union, as well as with third countries, continue to be made in a Southeast Europe transit centre by developing both the necessary connecting infrastructure and the services provided. In this context, a dominant position will have the freight centre in Triasios. It is an infrastructure, which will directly give more than a thousand jobs to the construction and over three thousand permanent jobs, which is likely to be estimated to reach all five thousand. It is expected to add great added value to the combined transport sector. At the same time, it will contribute to the provision of upgraded services while reducing transport costs, which is a key factor in reducing the final value of products, with a direct positive impact on the competitiveness of the Greek economy, on GDP growth, and on increasing employment. In summary, the necessary link in the chain of combined and multimodal transport is the necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, the design of this government is primarily geared towards promoting, modernising and extending the transport network. I think, however, that the time has come to move to the next stage and to develop the market for value added services. The increase of freight transhipment through Greece and the provision of value-added services can become the main force for the development of logistics and contribute to the recovery of the Greek economy. For this reason, a direct transition from a main transhipment model to a new model that adds value to international freight flows through Greece is necessary. The benefits will be multiple for both our economy and local communities, as new jobs will be created. Greece is now an active player in transport as well and will play a leading role in the Balkans and Southeast Europe. Of course, it is worth pointing out that relations with our neighbours, which this government has consistently promoted, to the perpetuation of patriotic isolationism, which is already the dogma of major opposition, not only upgrade our country as a transport hub and a privileged country of investment, but demonstrate and strengthen our geopolitical position. So our country now has a concrete plan, which implements and implements. You will allow me, in conclusion, to reply on the subject raised about L.4412/2016, as regards how to carry out supply, service and study projects. Let's not forget that the New Democracy voted for this law. Right then there was no transitional period, because we know that when a transitional period for the execution of projects and studies is given, they never end. So I believe this. At the moment, as far as L.4412/2016 is concerned, I could personally accept only one thing. It is only about too low bids, which are a result of competition. I believe that a balance needs to be found so that at some point this problem can be tackled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, too. Mr Georgiadis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am 11 years in Parliament, and I am speaking to you in my speech of honour, such a rag in a bill I have never seen before. It's never happened before. I'm sorry about your nerves. For people to understand why we're talking today, there's been a competition. In this competition, the terms of the competition provided for - I am not saying the details because I want to stay on the two major issues, and I am interested in the world's understanding - EUR 20 million of 'dust' and EUR 30 000 of the capacity to build. The original interested parties were thirty-three. The final bidder was one. The competition, which had been declared barren many times before, is being established. Yes, sir. And the government comes - intelligently by law, of course, because if he did not do the law, he would go directly to the Koydallus and would not go through a special court - and what does he do? It makes the two hundred and thirty-five thousand square meters, nine hundred thousand square meters and reduces the advance from EUR 20 million to EUR 10 million, after the competition! And I ask, Minister: since you wanted to do this, why didn't you make the contest at the beginning with the new terms, so that it could be known to all potential investors and assess the new conditions with the possibility of producing energy, with the possibility of not paying the municipal fees, with the possibility of having the guarantee of the Greek State and all the others that you have posted? What is the reason you did this? Tell me even one case of the past that comes from the government and by law changes the terms of a retrospective tender without making the contest at the outset. And we sit here talking like ladies, like nothing happens. It has never been done in Parliament today, ladies and gentlemen. I do not go into what you said, that you will make Greece a great international transport centre. Listen, Mr. Colleague, since you're much younger here. When the government of Karamanlis voted for 'COSCO' to go to the port of Piraeus, those of us who wanted to go to the port of Piraeus could not, because then SYRIZA had closed the port of Piraeus with incidents. And here Mr Dritsa did the 'a port of Anguish' to prevent the sale of the port to 'COSCO'. Don't tell us that you will make Greece a transport centre and that you have a big plan and everything else! In our own ideology - privatization you are doing - and in our own plan you are walking. What you used to find, now you're licking it. That's the difference. Go lick them, that's all right. That's good. You put your mind on growing up. But do you want to smiling? Minister, I ask directly why you did not make the contest at the beginning with the new terms? Who's benefiting? Will you check if any of your partners got them for what they did? It has never been in Parliament to change the conditions of competition since the competition! Never! Spirji is doing this by law for the reason I've of course explained. You vote for it, too. And that's not the first thing you're doing. This comes after the memorable event that, unfortunately, went through the changeovers. And accept that it's our fault that went through the change. We sit down and deal with Mr. Xanthos if the medicine went 0.23% over or 0.23% down and if I appointed twenty-three or twenty-two in the CEDEFOP. The European Commission comes to you and cuts you off the twenty-year extension of the concession of "Eleftherios Venizelos", which you signed with 450 million. And after the Commission's intervention, the same company, for the same years of concession, gives 700 million more. In other words, if there were no intervention by the Commission, the signature made by the Tsipra government would have led the Greek State to lose 700 million. And one of you, one of SYRIZA's - let us - didn't get up to ask his government "hey, guys, what happened? We would lose 700 million from the extension of the airport." None of you! You don't even care. There's no problem! What was the excuse? ‘It was made a mistake to the GOI and calculated the passenger traffic of 2015 and had not predicted the move of 2016 and 2017 and that it increased. One mistake made the children from whom we would lose 700 million if it were not for the Commission." Well, obviously there will be an intervention from the Commission on this particular subject today. I think it's inconceivable for him to go through this. Such a ribbon has never been made in history! First of all, the remaining thirty-two people are not going to make a fuss when they realize they're being given money to the only bidder? You're giving him government money! They're yours, Minister, and you're giving them away? Where did you get them? Did you find them from your father? Of the two hundred and thirty-five thousand squares we have ninety thousand without getting the public half of the euro. Come on, Jesus Christ! Where would you say that and who would believe you? Here, of course, there is frustration. One Minister comes out and says: "They are taken from Soros". Tsipras. The other Minister comes out and says: 'I only defended the government'. The first minister rejoins and says in "STAR": "I didn't find the entire government. I didn't say the entire government was taking it. I said that only Kotzias gets them, because he made the visa company with Soros." Kotzias leaks today: "I will go to the courts against what he says I took them from the visas, because the visa company knew the entire government." And he comes as a cherry on the cake - this is the cherry - Yiannis with an "n" and says the "n": "Soros called Tsipras to get me out of the Ministerial Council." Of course, now you don't care about Yanis, now you're laughing at Yani. Well, you're laughing, but the one you're laughing about is the Minister of Finance who ruined us. And you laughing, sir, with the mustache, gave him a vote of confidence. Understand? And you gave him a vote of confidence to be a Minister of Finance to get us the Capital Controls and now you're laughing. You laugh at yourself because you made him a minister. But don't laugh, cry about what you've done. I gather: Minister, and I formally say this as a New Democracy, will you explain to the House on simple and understandable terms why you changed the terms of this competition after the competition? In particular: Why did you reduce the advance? Why have you increased the conditions for construction? Why have you added the possibility of producing renewable energy? Why did you add the term 'for municipal fees'? And all that happened after the competition. You will convincingly tell the reasons in your speech, to understand them, so that every evil man can be convinced that you really had a few good reasons. If you don't have good reasons, then you'll explain why you haven't been running a competition in the first place. And then for the further, we'll go through everything when the time comes. Today I woke up - and I close with it - and I hear that he is supposed to become a precursor for health for five people. So I say to you that no preliminary will be done for health, because nothing can be done. Because the Health Committee was a fiasco. You were looking, looking, looking. You couldn't find anything, you shut it down. You have not investigated the medicine with the so-called 'big' billions and you will not make it a pretext - and I challenge you - because there is no criminal responsibility for any Minister. On the contrary, what you are voting on today, Mr Spirtzi - to be informed - will be controlled to an antenna! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u80	Please, Minister, for intervention or for speech you want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u81	On personal grounds I would like to take the floor to explain a few of the issues that Mr Georgiadis has said, which I believe has obviously been misinformed by many. Mr. Georgiade, I'm keeping my temper. I don't like the tension. I would therefore like to submit, in order to be informed and not misinformed, the notice of invitation to tender, which has been submitted and published in the Official Journal of the European Commission. It can't be questioned by anyone. And I would ask you to come and show me if you find another 20 million-dollar notice you or otherwise. The notice specifically mentions 10,000,000 euros, at least an indicative investment of 200,000 euros. In paragraph 2.11.2 it also states the distinct conditions for building factors, as indicated below the two hundred thousand squares which are binding for the first time from the previous procedures, which indicate that the squares do not rise. They don't quadruple as many say. This was done for the needs of the modern standards, so that the eleven measures would be fifteen. Only the volume factor is derived from a product, which is the build-up factor on the rate laid down by the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u82	Additional constructions of what are they?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Maniotis, I've answered you to the committee. You don't want to understand. I'll say later why you don't want to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u84	What are the additional structures?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u85	I will answer you and answer you to the committees. You don't want to. What can we do? You say other things you say. I'm talking to Mr. Georgiadis for the first time. I replied to the committee. I'm filing it, then. There is no other issue of a proclamation, Mr Georgiadis, nor with 20 million or other conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, may I ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Georgiadis, it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. On personal grounds, do you want the floor? Do you have a situation? What's the staff? Tell me to figure it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u88	Because he said I don't know, just ask a question for two seconds. To show if I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u89	It is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u90	Because he insulted me and said I didn't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u91	You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u92	Have you voted or not, Mr Spirtzi, where all the properties of GIAOSE increase the build-up factor to 0,6? Does this increase include the specific property and the specific price or not? Does the investor possibly have a chance to reach ninety thousand square meters or not? That's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u93	He can't afford it. The first phase is planned during the construction period, T1, a hundred twenty thousand squares, during the period T2 another hundred twenty thousand squares. The whole is two hundred forty. And if you see the terms of the notice of previous competition proceedings, it was two hundred and thirty-five - thirty-six. That is the one part of the question. The second is that, as you will see in the notice I presented to you, an exceptional procedure was provided for - it was also provided for in the previous invitations to tender made by the previous governments - to change the conditions of construction in order to meet these needs. The amendment came up for two reasons. I told the committees too. One is the height, the second is to have uniform construction conditions for all the matrimonial centres that GAIAOSE has in its design and the third is the following: Since the first competition in 2006 ended in 2009, it was barren, the second competition in 2011 which was also barren and the same squares planned now should have changed the conditions of construction by a presidential decree rather than being uniform for all the matrimonial centres. This meant that the country’s obligations would not be covered by it by March 2019. In other words, they would take the conditions, as was provided for in the declaration by way of a derogation, but much later, so that the country would return 235 million back to the European Commission, which, as I know, would not want any wing of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u94	We shall proceed with Mr Bourra, Member of the New Democracy. Please, Mr. Bourra, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Thariasian freight centre has been announced and planned since 2004 and has since passed through successive stages. Its purpose is to create in the particular area of the Municipality of Aspropyrgos the largest freight centre in the country, since the total complex of the facilities of the Triasios Field is located in a strategically important location within Attica, near the port of Piraeus, next to the port of Elefsina, with railway and road connections. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, my colleague, Costas Karamanlis, was placed in detail both in committee and here today in plenary on the details of this convention and the positions of the New Democracy, which are always in favour of strategic investment, but on a project of public interest and environmental protection, and explained both to the committee in detail and today more specifically, because we are voting against this convention, which we consider to be scandalous. In particular, the Government shall change the original conditions of the contract in favour of the concessionaire after the notice on specific conditions. The overall potential for building has been overdue, the concessionaire is exempted from the municipal fees, existing and future, and a serious issue of unconstitutionality of the law that will ratify the contract is raised. During the concession period - sixty years - there should be absolutely no change in Greek legislation, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to stand as a Member of the Attica Region, especially now that the Western Attica regions have been separated, on local issues, which are currently being created in the Triasian Field, where 40% of the heavy national industry is housed, where there is the large landfill area where important productive businesses are active for the sake of the Greek economy and society, and where, in any case, I am saying so - unfortunately - and I stress the time-consuming - as the backyard in Athens. And while, Minister, with the signature of the contract and the creation of the freight station, the necessary, important infrastructure projects had to have been completed, as the Mayor of Egypt, Mr. Melletou, described them in detail in committee, you are also coming with this contract and you are exempting the concessionaire from the municipal fees even in the future. On the other hand, I should have said so to you many times and in private - for this multi-faceted municipality and this many-faceted area, which indeed is hosting - not to say'responsible' - all these heavy activities, not only the municipal charges, but also the provision of compensatory benefits. And because you may not know it - but I know it, because I have been serving the area for many years, especially the western Attica - I tell you that from the burden of the only Healthy Landfill area there are provisions for neighbouring municipalities - and for the Municipality of Aspropyrgos - because of the traffic of heavy vehicles, due to pollution and other, compensatory benefits. I sincerely want to convey the anxiety of these citizens, even by tabling a resolution of the City Council number 471 one day before we start the debate in committee in order to predict at least, or to commit to compensatory benefits. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Bourras, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I'm moving on. And with the signing of the Convention on the establishment of a freight station, it had to be completed - I go to the second topic, the mayor told you - major infrastructure projects. These infrastructures will support the operation of this centre, but will significantly burden this municipality. Because the municipality can't keep streets. And I would like to ask you to go together at any time of the day and today, after the meeting, to see the Avenue of Democracy - it is the main avenue of the Egyptian Prime Minister - from which you cannot pass. The inhabitants of the region and the professionals are protesting because all heavy goods vehicles - much more so when the freight centre operates - pass through the heart of the city, the central arteries, and not even the regional ones. So you must anticipate the construction and the completion of important projects. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What are these projects, Minister, for colleagues to hear? Those who go to Corinth every day see two holes for many years abandoned at the Scaramaga hub. So I say, first of all - and the mayor told you - that the stream of Saint John must be settled. It needs to be completed. There have been some projects, but they must be completed. Secondly, the linking hub of the Regional Eagleo must be completed. It's the back of Aegaleo, coming over the Attica Street, but on Scaramaga it's blind, where you've seen abandoned two tunnels for many years. Thirdly, two vertical connection axes of the new Athens-Korinthos national road with the NATO Avenue or Peace Avenue. Fourthly, node 3 of the Attica Road, in order to complete the corners of the Attica Road, because you understand, Minister, that all these vehicles may not have their operation outside the city. The completion of these works results from the need to dismantle the city of Neupro from the crossing of heavy vehicles, which also infect the environment and the roads, destroying and not helping entrepreneurial life, while the Municipality of Aspropyrgos fails, because of its poor revenues, to constantly maintain - we are talking about day-to-day maintenance - this road network. Ladies and gentlemen, after I too say that we are voting against this convention, for the reasons detailed by our rapporteur, but also by other excellent colleagues in the New Democracy, I would also like you to see two documents on all these side-effects that I have said. One document is from 2016 and the other from 2017 of the mayor of the Egyptian Prime Minister, who informed you of the necessity of these works. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Bourras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, too. Mrs Vultesis, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. In this country and in this Chamber you will not have to get tired too much to imagine what would happen if the New Democracy government had brought such a convention to Parliament. We all remember what you were saying at the time, Minister, you, your leader, for sale, for investors, who are not investors, but are pirates, who have now become investors. And now, here we are talking about, you say that you will make a constitutional review and guarantee the public character of water and electricity in the Constitution, while all this has been put at the supranational, and it is anonymous companies. Also, when we ask you what investments you have brought to the country in these years, Mr. Tsipras responds to the investment of the 'Deutsche TELECOM' in the development of a technical network of optical fibres and something else, with the creation of a fund of 400 million. I'm sorry, but if OTE doesn't invest in optic fibers, what will he do? Will he sell gum? This is therefore not an investment. It's OTE's obligation to move forward, or he won't have what to sell. You say that for your days the investments have gone up. But you received them at 3.6 billion, in 2015 you took them to 1.9 billion, and now we need to get on with you, because they went back to 3.6 billion, while you lost all in 2015 in terms of investment. I would like you to tell me at some point what exactly you are talking about, with figures and numbers, not with the example of 'Deutsche Telecom' to OTE, because it is OTE's obligation to invest in his own job to sell. We, under the government of Samaras, who has been overcrowded all day, have had certain investments. The 1.5 billion was TAP as a foreign direct investment. Do you have any such number to report? OTE had already made 2 billion investments, but considered it normal to sell its products. Only with China, nineteen Greek financing agreements of about 6.5 billion have been signed under the Samara government. I do not understand how you erase all of this and then present a virtual reality, while you have a beastly trade deficit, you are out of the market, you have a huge imported inflation, banks lived four cracks in one month and in the same investments, according to ELSTAT's figures, we had a 10.3% reduction in the first quarter and 5.4% in the second quarter. The economic climate is falling. We lost four units in September. Economic freedom is at Venezuela's level. Competitiveness is four downsides and entrepreneurship at Mongolia level. Honestly, I cannot understand how it is possible, because you repeat - as is the case in propaganda - 'the economy is going well', to believe it and to make us think that the economy is going well. I also feel - to get to another point - that you remember the economy only when you are going to retreat to national issues. Only then can you tell us, on the issue of the Presidencies' Agreement, that we have language, identity, sea access, self-determination because, he says, we have to have good economic relations with the Skopje, which we had anyway. Why else would they live if they did not have good relations with Greece and with the current regime? I didn't understand that. Have you solved all the issues of the economy and investment with all the major and strong countries, and now your point is to give all this up so that we have something we have to have? You are now doing the same with the Albanian question: do not say something, because we will ruin the relations we have. You have left the Greek ethnic minority unprotected, you have no interest in its suffering all these years, so that you do not ruin the humiliation of your partner Rama, now two years - and you know it well - there is a regime of total terrorism in the area that exists in the Greek ethnic minority. You do not see and Mr. Tsipras, who all day makes Taleyrando and is calling Heads of State and goes to Mostar and talks to the Balkan leaders, has not lifted the phone to do the simple, what has always been done and done it, and I have personal knowledge of it, because history with Himara has started since those years. Samaras raised the phone - I have personal knowledge - and said to Rama: "Be careful, because our minority will protect it, it is recognised and remember that your way to the European Union goes through the protection of the human rights of the Greek national minority". Not everyone can now be undone and there is no longer this protection at all and the world is afraid to speak, even in Greece, because he knows that he has his parents in the region and knows what is happening. Where's Mr. Tsipras who's been calling Mr. Zaev all day as Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs together? I don't understand it. And if for the alleged investments you intend to give up all our national laws, it is certain that you will turn those you once called pirates into investors. But the reality will always disprove you. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Vultusis. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u99	I would like to support the amendment, Mr President. Should I precede?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u100	Of course, Minister. Here, you have the floor to support this amendment, which you bring to the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is the amendment with a general number of 1791 and a specialist 41, which concerns the sanitary aspect of the management of the refugee. We had announced it about the day before yesterday on a timely question from the New Democracy. What is this amendment doing? Firstly, it extends the existing contract concerning a funded programme from a European fund, the PhILOS Programme, which implements the CCTBO, a programme which ensures that all categories of health professionals and all specialities are covered, and first reception centres, camps and neighbouring public structures. We are therefore prolonging for about a quarter of the procedure until the procedure is completed, which is in progress. I think the deadline for applying has expired these days. It is a call, which will be financed by a new programme, which this time is through the new Public Investment Programme. She's co-financed, but she's from the National Public Investment Programme. It's an ambitious programme. It includes about a thousand five hundred people, doctors, nurses, other health professionals, EKAV rescuers, psychologists, midwifes, intercultural mediators, administrative staff, people related to epidemiology and monitoring of infections, etc. I think it is a very ambitious programme, which, in fact, can enhance the state presence, government care for these populations, contribute to the quality of their health needs on the one hand, and, on the other, strengthen public health prevention and protection measures, which also concerns local populations, local communities. However, since the experience of the previous two very successful projects, which we have carried out, is that we have had a difficulty in attracting mainly doctors, we have considered it necessary to give in this amendment certain incentives to attract them, which are wage-earning but also grading, scientific and service development. So what do we do? Firstly, we are giving doctors who will serve in reception and identification centres and camps, i.e. open-host structures, a minimum wage that is substantially twice as high as the expected wage. These doctors are full-time doctors, but not full-time and paid for by the rural doctor. So we double their wages. I think this is an important incentive. In addition, in the Aegean islands and Evros, that is to say in areas under ‘agronomy I’ status, additional EUR 400 is added, which is the allowance of the offspring, which applies to all other rural doctors serving. That's the one motive. The second motive concerns doctors who will serve in ERC structures. This notice is about a hundred doctors to understand. There are two hundred other doctors who will serve in structures of the National Health System, i.e. hospitals or health centers, which are close to the Cyts or the amps. They also increase the remuneration for the hospital service allowance, which other ERS doctors, who are EUR 350 mixed, are also paid to them. That's an extra motive for them too. The third incentive is that those who serve in this programme and have not fulfilled the rural service will be considered as fulfilling the rural service. In other words, if one has not done his countryside and serves in this programme, which is normally eighteen months, he is effectively relieved of his term of office as a rural doctor. In addition, two other elements relating to pre-service are the following: for qualified doctors who will serve in this programme their pre-service - that is, in the eighteen months' time - will be considered as an ESS service. This is about the rest of the staff. The pre-service of others, other than doctors, will also be considered as a service in the public sector. It is a bonus, that is, pre-service, not only for doctors, but also for other health professionals. In our view, with this intervention, we hope that we will have the fullest possible response to the positions that we have outlined. It is a budget programme of EUR 50 million over eighteen months, plus six months, as usually an extension is given, i.e. about two years. I think that it is true that it ensures us conditions of a very good health organization and a presence in the areas that refugees are living in our country right now. So it also gives a sense of health security to the refugees themselves, but also to local communities. So I think it is an intervention that invests and protects public health. And clearly, it is in the political direction of a health policy, which is open and accessible to everyone in the context of the universal coverage policy. And I think it really is what it takes today for the decent care of people who live in our country regardless of their work, insurance, income, origin, nationality or possession, in any case, of legal documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, I would like to ask for some clarification on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u103	I beg your pardon, Mr Theocharopoulos has asked for the floor. I'll give you after the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u104	But the amendment, Mr President, has now been tabled. Will we ask for clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Theoharopoulos, if you'll let go of your turn again, I have no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u106	I'm gonna need a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u107	All right, Mr President, for dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have announced that you are doubling the salaries of the medical staff who will serve in the refugee centers. And you said you'd improve health conditions. You know, however, better than all of us that improving the living conditions of people who live there is, above all, a question of infrastructure. And the infrastructure in some of these centres is nonexistent. Furthermore, the overpopulation of refugees is the main cause, which has created images of the Moria and Samos type, i.e. not only for Greece, but for Europe as a whole. Do you think the doubling of the health pay will solve the problem? I would also like you to give us some clarification about the recruitment of health facilities in hospitals, which will be considered as a countryside service. If account is taken of the fact that many soldiers serve on remote islands in order to meet the real needs, does the status of the countryside of doctors change to a large extent? Do we have a definitive change with the competition, with the decision on the soldiers and all that? Does this, in any case, comply with the rules on equal treatment of your fellow doctors, especially at the beginning of their careers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u110	Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u111	Yes, Mr. President. Two minutes, I think it's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u112	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, the day before yesterday we had a detailed discussion of four hours. The New Democracy was the Persistent Party. I think we have responded very thoroughly to the complaints and agreed that the crucial issue is indeed the improvement of the living conditions of these people: the conditions of feeding, housing, personal hygiene, etc. This is the territory that does not allow for risks in relation to public health and personal health of these people. Therefore, this is obviously the objective: to reduce the overcrowding of the overcrowding of camps which obviously have a much smaller capacity, to deal quickly with the vulnerability process, to make use of the opportunities given by the well-known European Union and Turkey, so that these people can move inland.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u114	The agreement does not apply, Minister, to one thousand or so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u115	Let me answer. Don't ever have the same conversation again. In fact - and we have explained too many times - we have not allowed these interventions to become a public health problem, precisely because there have been these three years, the refugee problem and because there was a mechanism, there was a plan, there was an intervention to prevent, prevent infections from spreading whenever they appeared. Nevertheless, we consider it necessary to have high-level security standards and to have good care for the particular people who have greater vulnerability because of their suffering, etc. - we all understand that - and have additional needs. We now have women, who are constantly giving birth, we have infants, young children, we have elderly, we have disabled, we have mental health problems. In other words, we have a wide range of needs that need to be met. And it's not just emergency primary or health care. So because we have all this, we want to set up a system that really has a security that these needs can be met by the state. Auxiliary, whenever necessary, is also a synergy with reliable non-governmental organisations. So, we upgraded state power and state presence, the state assumes the responsibility of managing these people's health problems, and to have an approach, because we had reached only twenty-six doctors in all reception centres - identification centres and camps throughout the country, and that is why we asked for assistance from the Army. The Army sent twelve officers of the Armed Forces, sanitary, to help. This delayed the process of calibration, created difficulties, etc. So we want to give additional incentives to lift the latter...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u116	Give us also to the islands that have been naked by doctors, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u117	Leave it, Mr. Bukoro, listen now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u118	Give our islands the...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u119	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u120	I explained we'd put six hundred. And if the program is implemented as a whole, six hundred people will go to the reception/identification centres, doctors and other staff, and eight hundred people will go to the islands, to the health centers and to their hospitals. We have done this since 2015 and so we have kept the health system up in a very difficult period, when over a million people went through without opening a nose in terms of health. That is the essence of this intervention. We are now strengthening it with additional incentives to make sure that we can actually attract young doctors, who today, instead of going abroad and migrating, have the opportunity to exercise a decent profession within the country and, indeed, to meet such a vital and sensitive social need.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Theocharopoulos, I hope you will not give up your position again and speak. Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. On the occasion of the presentation of the amendment, I shall start with this amendment, Mr Xanthi, and then go to the main part of the bill. The amendment is correct. I would only criticize you for why they have been delayed. I would not have told you that, which was a criticism. I can criticise the government for too much, for the refugee problem, for the delays, for the humanitarian crisis, the criticism is for Europe, it is for our country, it is a very big issue. I was in Chios the last days on the hot spot and my people there explained where the process is being delayed right now. In Chios there was no delay in the asylum procedure, the vulnerability process was delayed, because there was a problem with doctors. I found out! When I saw the amendment today, I said: 'We saw it yesterday, why has it not come so long?' In other words, it is against criticism and beyond any government targets that the proposed provisions are necessary. We in the Democratic Integration, therefore, could not oppose regulations aimed at managing a migration and refugee crisis, dealing with issues relating to staff in areas affected. Decreased interest in doctors? Yes, many times. Reduced interest in dentists, working on them? Absence of motives? There's all this. And that is what we must intervene to ensure that there is no delay, because the conditions are tragic. Anyone who hasn't seen them in person can't think of them. This is a humanitarian crisis, and at European level, Europe thinks it is throwing the problem down in the countries of the south and Greece thinks it is throwing the problem to the islands. The refugee is not solved in this way, they need - it is not the time to discuss this in detail - concrete actions. I am going to go to another amendment, with the opportunity I started with the amendments, to close, because you have just referred to it now, Minister. I would like to refer to an amendment now that we have received from the Ministry of Finance. There is an entire amendment to reduce the number of members of the Commission to carry out temporary or permanent work on Aegialos and Beach, that is to say, and reduces the number of members of the Commission, only by taking out the representative of the Technical Chamber from that committee. I tried to understand, I saw the document. In fact, it's incomprehensible what's happening. The explanatory statement states that 'the reduction of the members of the Commission makes it simpler and more flexible', i.e. the reduction by one person, in essence, of the representative of the Technical Chamber, 'contributes to speeding up the licensing of works'. So one member of the Technical Chamber was delayed. And the Minister, Mr. Spirtzis, is an engineer and the Prime Minister of the country is an engineer! The President of the Chamber of Deputies sent a letter to the Prime Minister stating that "the reason for the persecution of the representative of the TEI is to simplify the functioning of the Nine-American Committee, from which only his representative is abolished and all the service actors remain", stressing characteristics that they are clearly funny excuses. Does the government have anything to answer about this amendment? Of course, we have another amendment from the Ministry of Finance, where we finally see that you are interested in the Greek issue. For four years the investment has been blocked, and now an amendment speeding up projects in Greek comes to the end. After almost four years of governance, with the investment blocked, you remembered to bring simplifications in order to proceed with construction work. These amendments show the contradictions and deadlocks of today's government policy. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the bill on the creation of the Triumph of Goods Centre, an investment of strategic importance, which aims to make the country a transit centre and to highlight its strategic position in European international transport. Although there is no question of the usefulness, usefulness and usefulness of the project, and in this case there are many gray zones. It is now, in October - it could have come earlier, I am not going into this procedure - but it is doubtful whether the work will start by the end of the year, as there are still stages that need to be completed, such as the approval by the European Commission of any state aid - I will come back to this - a direct contract between the project owner. You said you were going ahead with a project that hadn't been done for decades. First of all, you said you came to change everything and make it better. I don't see that happening in this case. And I think it has been analysed by previous speakers why it is not. This project will obviously require additional investments, which, as we understand it, will be covered by PPPs. For us there is nothing wrong with the PPPs, but you cannot remember that your obsession with stateism in the past few years has kept you committed to you and has for years made you strong wars against public-private partnerships, the famous PPPs. You fought them with rabies as Opposition and blocked them for almost two and a half years as government. I have here what you said as Opposition. I don't have to say. If I have to testify to you in the Minutes, because the mutation is actually evident in the contrast between what you were saying and what you are doing today. Starting from such perceptions, then, it had to arrive September 2017 to be approved by your Government at the time the first PPPs to build school units in Chania, promotion - concessions of thermal baths in Niseros. I'm coming to this bill. His grey areas have already been analysed by many colleagues. I would like to dwell on some particular points for the economy of the debate. It is known that West Attica and West Athens are degraded regions, with great unemployment. Even when investment is made in the region, the work of local society is not guaranteed. Minister, you obviously said and I have to ask GAIAOSE to come into consultation with the concessionaire to prefer the people who are in the area. But it's not a request. It is a demand and an obligation for local society, and you should have guaranteed it yourself in what you signed. Let us now see the question of additional work, additional constructions. I have heard your answer, Mr Spirtzi, that nothing has changed, but you have essentially not referred to the articles on additional constructions. You did not give an answer to all these articles, i.e. the possibilities of using and selling electricity from RES. Obviously, it is in the interests of the environment, but it is not the same in the public interest. Why does the Greek State get 2.5% of the concessionaire's turnover? Does this specialize in any part of the contract? Is that 2.5% of the centre's total turnover from all its activities? You mentioned before, when we told you that half the price fell, saying, 'But the competition speaks of 10 million euros'. The decision of the Board of Directors which decided to take the decision speaks of 20 million euros, but you hide this in the course of the procedure, which is why, in fact, half the price is being reduced from the decision of the Board of Directors which decided to sign the contract up to the present convention. And you know, what the speaker of the Democratic Partnership showed you, that he wasn't posted to the Transparency - did he really do a year and a half to post in the Transparency - is it, or isn't it illegal? Should decisions be posted immediately to Transparency or not? You said he didn't have any staff to post it. We proved to you that the posts at the time were dozens. Do you have anything to say about all of this, namely to give answers or in general and vaguely, will you blame the opposition without answering the particulars? Apart from this, however, the Centre will not be located in the Arizona Desert, but will be part of a structured and structured set, which means that it should pay even a fixed fee, rather than be completely exempted from the use of own energy sources. The same applies to solid waste and liquid waste, which is not only anticipated, but there is not even provision for any benefits at all. In a recent bill, the one of the waterways, we have seen that revenue from the paradoxes will go to your Ministry and you will decide again which part of them will go to the municipalities, depriving them of revenue and autonomy. Now, again, we see a new deprivation of revenue for the municipalities. Otherwise, in view of the self-government elections you are being cut off for hand-held selfgovernment with its own resources and responsibilities. You've forgotten about self-government. And since we have the Constitutional Review and we are talking about self-government, will there be any debate on the transfer of funds and on all that has been done in previous years, on how can we constitutionally safeguard the independence of self-government? Another question is: The next step following Parliament's vote on the bill is the adoption by the European Commission of any state aid. You said, Minister, that the guarantee that Parliament and any government have to guarantee is also the European institutions and that if it comes to state aid, the Convention will obviously be corrected. In the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, reference is made to the possible expenditure incurred by the State in the event of a breach of the guarantees in favour of the master of the project, as part of the implementation of the contract concluded. In other words, you consider it possible on the basis of what you say. Why is it that it has not been planned and prevented? Does it contribute to the credibility of the country? The ideological obsessions as opposition continued to accompany you and now, almost by the end, your term of office and this results in huge delays in understanding the way modern world operates and in elementary reforms that promote growth. In your attempt to win one of the time lost you are today kings of the king. The country does not have the luxury of time, but no one has the luxury - nor do you - of your Government. Before I close, I should like to deal with two further issues relating to the Minister. We recently had a very intense debate on how he handles certain transport issues in Thessaloniki. Instead of answering, he blamed the opposition for not knowing, and as a result in the next few days to create a great turbulence. I now read in the papers that the Minister went to the directors of the SSY administration and trade unions and said he is making efforts to ensure that transport control goes back to his ministry, that is, he passed the shares of the OSCE, OSCE, OSH, STSH since the beginning of the year in the SSYP, and today the trade unions are going to the UFO and tells them that what he did a few months ago is trying to get it back. What kind of hypocrisy is that? What a maximum hypocrisy! In conclusion, I will refer to something last that proves the hypocrisy of your government. You have answered a question - for this debate here in this House - about the committees that have made you a journalist, Minister, on the question of the criticism that has been raised by the special speaker of the Democratic Independence, in relation to the specific elements that we ask you to do and which you have not answered. One of these - as I said before - is why the price was reduced to half in relation to the Governing Council's decision to the present Convention. You haven't answered. In relation to the criticism we have made, the Minister replied that we have a total contrast between progress and maintenance, right and left, progressive forces and neoliberalism. So he answered, not looking in the mirror of the government. You are running with the ANELs, with a party with nationalist positions for us. After the recent Ministerial Council, Mr Spirtz publicly said that he did not hear what Mr Kammenos said to Mr Kotzia. And these answers are seen as answers that can convince society today of the need for genuinely progressive policies that we need to be able to overcome the crisis. In the same response Mr Spirtz said attributes that "the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict will certainly remain to implement the objectives agreed, the alliance with the progressive forces was our strategic choice". Look. She's got her limit. You cannot want SYRIZA - ANEL, this nationalist partnership, which constantly creates you deadlocks on human rights, on national issues, on all issues, and at the same time, at the same time, talk about a strategic objective, which you are at the same time undermining. You can't have everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u123	Thank you. Deputy of the New Democracy Arta Law, George Stylos, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 1/11/2018 to 4/11/2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u124	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-three students and students and two teachers attending from the Municipal School of Paralium Astros Kynurias. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall proceed with Mr Georgada, Member of the New Democracy. Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will not use all my time because I shall refer only to the specific amendment of the Minister for Health. I want to thank him for staying in the Chamber to listen to me. What I am going to put on, Minister, I think they are no honour to anyone. Once again, we have one amendment, which is coming to extend work contracts. I think that government as a whole is really a champion in its interventions in relation to the contractors where it legislates either exceptionally all general and specific provisions or extensions that are contrary to the law. But here, you've gotten over yourself. And I'll tell what I mean. In the explanatory statement, the extension in this way, in your legislative intervention, is justified by the provision of urgent and unforeseen needs. But when are these urgent and unpredictable needs in a refugee, which we all know has been balanced in the country, when we know what the needs are, when we know what our obligations towards these people are, will finally come to another stage? New Democracy in 2015, fully understanding the unforeseen and excessive size that existed in our country in relation to the refugee and migration flows, voted in favour of any legislative initiative that came in order to facilitate the work of the Greek state towards these people. We also voted in favour of the direct awards for the period that had to be made and any other amendment that you brought here. This year 2015. Refugee and migration flows were one million. This is over. For at least two years there has been a practical and practically normality in this whole process. This normality, why can't the state manage it, why can't the government manage it? As a result, we have to go further than ever to legislate, to make shadows, to create charges for our country and all this without offering the services to be offered to the hospitality centres of these people. And you come now and you have to make this paradox: Give them second wages to doctors, give them all these privileges. Do you know why you're giving them them? Do you know why they're really not going? Because they feel insecure. Because the environment in these centres is dangerous. They do not want to go and in order to be able to convince them to go, you give all these benefits, but this alone is a confession of your failure in the policy for refugees, for immigrants, which you should have exercised. It ended the program in August. You give an extension of two months and it expires 19 October, i.e. it is over. You are now, retrospectively, giving an extension of three months, without a PSF - which means, ladies and gentlemen, without an Act of Ministerial Council - without approval, without a substantial record of these recruits in the tables and figures, which must be made - and this is a great debate and we will see it in the near future - and you are creating a new generation, in essence, which is compatible with the pursuit - as you do - of creating them the expectation of simulation. I can't say anything else. So, two months ago, you didn't know that your problem would come three months later or rather you did it, why did you wait for "PHILOS II", so that they could go back into the new contracts and then talk about 30 months continuous service through work contracts and then have the conditions for permanentisation? The Greek society wants to return a page to everything that has to do with these blurred procedures in the works contracts, in the contracts of employment, in the provision of a service to the public. You have to contribute to this, too. We cannot come every month or two months and talk about emergency situations in hospitality centres. What are the urgent cases? Your inability to serve all these centres with permanent staff? Or is it that your inability to predict the needs and through legal procedures, the procedures provided for, can you hire new staff for these posts? I think that all this insults and proves your overall failure in the work to be done. A policy of this kind cannot be accepted by the New Democracy, which - I recall again - supported it in 2015 by understanding the exceptional cases, but we will now not only be negative in voting, but we will also explore the circumstances and violations of the law and procedures and the photographic notices and everything that holds in the hostages of some people, whatever else aims at false expectations to them and everything else you seek to create within the public administration a party state. It is disgraceful after four years of your own governance, after at least three years that the refugee has come to a balance even now that your legislative initiatives on refugee and immigration have come with the character 'to cover urgent and necessary conditions'. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, too. The Minister for Health now has the floor, Mr. Andreas Xanthos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u127	Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I think we need a brief answer. My dear fellow Member, I think that in your position you confirm what we said from the day before yesterday in your topical question about the refugee question you have asked, that your interest in the needs of refugees and what you say images of shame for the country, etc., is absolutely hypocritical. Absolutely hypocritical. You are not interested in refugees' living conditions or their health care. What you are interested in is fishing in the blurred waters of the far right in Greece. "Heads" of the extreme right want to get with this rhetoric, which, in fact, does not correspond to the reality and insults our intelligence. There is a Ministerial Council Act.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u128	You know he's got an extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u129	There is a Ministerial Council Act. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u130	But if you're lying...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u131	On 6 September 2018, this Decision shall enter into force on the day following There is a Joint Ministerial Decision, number 3877. So here we have a new programme. It's the end of the precedent. We have not been able to migrate to the co-financed by the national PPP, which is why we have given extensions, so that we do not leave no gap in the care of these people and therefore also in the protection of public health. We therefore have a new programme with absolutely transparent and aptitude procedures. We have implemented two programmes and no one dared to say a word and we have positive evaluations from the Commission of both, with a 98% absorption rate. It is exemplary the health care that our country has provided for these three years and this is recognised by both the World Health Organisation and the International Organisation for Migration and there are reports that are excellent and commendable. So now we are going to a new, obviously longer-term intervention, eighteen-month programme, which usually extends to twenty-four months, with a logic of sufficient coverage of these needs through state care so that we do not need the assistance of either the Armed Forces, which we had to have at any time, nor the NGOs, which are also reliable enough to cooperate with. As far as possible, therefore, the needs of state intervention can be met. That's what we're going to do. It is not true that we have a population in the country that is stable and controlled at all times. We constantly have intensified flows - you know that very well - from both the islands and Evros. In the first months of 2018, about thirteen thousand refugees from Evros have been crossed into various camps and hospitality structures mainly in northern Greece. So we have a changing need that requires vigilance, prolongation of programmes that are already in operation and we cannot risk continuing care and fuller coverage at all times with a competition on terms and criteria. The APA has approved until the last antenna the terms of the notice. There is absolute transparency. There is a check by sworn accountants in the two previous programmes. We will have their report soon, and I am sure there will be no criticism of any unsatisfactory management. For the first time I would say in his history the CEDEFOP is managing such a highly sensitive and healthly sensitive issue in terms of transparency and good administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, I would like to ask you to speak for ten seconds on something inaccurate that has been heard. I don't get used to it, you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u133	Here you go, Mr. Georgioda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u134	On page 2, paragraph 3 of the amendment, which has been tabled, I read: 'with paragraph 1, they shall be automatically extended without any further administrative act including the adoption of a Ministerial Council act'. They are also excluded from the adoption of an act of a Ministerial Council. That is what I read in the amendment. I didn't say anything untrue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u135	I am sorry, Mr President, to explain this again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u136	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u137	It is a co-financed programme, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u138	It's not the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u139	He's co-financed, of course. It's just...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u140	You know what he says about...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u141	Listen, please, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u142	The 1.9 million who was given?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u143	You're right. The budget of the CEDEFOP shall be 1.9.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u144	And the 3.2 now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u145	What?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u146	Now, how much would the three-month extension cost? That's our money, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u147	Now listen. That's it. 1.9 million is the three-month extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u148	It was the two-month period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u149	1.9 is the three-month extension. The other is 50 million European resources managed by a management body...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u150	This is 'PHILOS II', we do not care about 'PHILOS II'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u151	Please, Mr. Georgioda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u152	Please, too! Review of non-transparent management you cannot make in this program.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u153	Where is the act of the Ministerial Council?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u154	You can't do this program!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u155	There is no act of a Ministerial Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u156	And don't play...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u157	Report to the minutes on the act of the Ministerial Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u158	...with public health issues and reliable people's health care.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u159	Report to the minutes on the act of the Ministerial Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u160	Enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u161	Deposit the act of the Ministerial Council. Don't lie in the Chamber of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u162	Please, Mr. Georgioda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u163	That's enough with this mud.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u164	That is enough with the amendment, of course enough. It's all self-righteous extensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u165	We are going with Mr Yoyaka, Member of the New Democracy, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u166	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government to justify its own failures and omissions has often resorted to reasonable compensation. This is what the Minister responsible did here, when he referred to the original contract that took place when the New Democracy was a government in 2006. Minister, once again, the terms of the 2006 contract were much more favourable to the Greek State and during the concession and to the binding guarantee, to the area granted and to the annual revenue and to the risk-taking by the investor. Unfortunately for the country, Minister, you do not know how to use the methods of the market economy, and you probably do not want to use them, you are simply forced. This has also been demonstrated by the change in the price for the extension of the concession contract of Athens "Eleftherios Venizelos". You went to deprive the Greek State of EUR 740 million and thankfully the European Union's Directorate-General for Competition and the price went up twice over it. We, ladies and gentlemen, have stated to all tons our disagreement with this concession agreement: We disagree with the reduction in the advance by 50%, which has been intoxicated since the opening of the tender and until the signature of the contract. We disagree with the change in the conditions of construction with which the overall potential for construction has been increased four times. We disagree with the exemption from municipal fees and the possibility of building and operating electricity infrastructures, mainly because such benefits had to have an impact on the price of the concession. All these changes in relation to the contract notice were made after the binding tender was submitted, they are all in the private interest rather than the Greek State. You have made all the papers for him, Minister, you who are cut out for the dissemination of fair growth in society, you who in the past, as opposition, have even blocked soft growth investments, when you now share cement simple hands, you who have reopened the competition on other terms than the first and significantly reduced public sector. On the issue of the unconstitutionality of Article 28, other colleagues spoke about lawyers. I just want to say that both the sizes of the guarantees by the Greek State and the resignation of the public by various rights for sixty years are perhaps the definition of what you sometimes called 'colonial terms'. All of this shows that you have lost, not only any moral advantage, but also every ideological alibi. We believe in privatisation as a tool for structural change that our economy needs. We believe in making use of the property and the benefits it can have for the development of freight transport and employment. We believe, however, that the concession agreement has many problems and should be given an opinion by the Independent Authority for Public Contracts and you should wait for the position of the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission, as some conditions of the contract may fall under State aid law. The only option, so as not to be exposed to you and, above all, the country, is to withdraw it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u167	Thank you. Now Mrs Papanatsiou, State Secretary for Finance, will support an amendment to this effect on the regulation of issues relating to the execution of temporary or permanent works on the Aegean Sea and the beach. Please, Mrs Papanatsiou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. I will support two amendments, namely Amendment No 1792 and special No 42, which is the amendment to Article 14(6) of Law 2971/2001. Let us see a little historically how this committee feels. The Committee was set up in 2011 in order to request projects on public tourism, such as old EOT properties. In the 2011 Act, the Committee provided for a nine-member, but then the list had eight members. There was no ninth member, and so far the committee has never worked. So in order for the committee to function, there were two possible ones. One possibility was to add one more member. The second possibility was to reduce the committee by one member so that the committee could function. In this amendment we propose the smallest seven-member committee, considering it to be more flexible, while at the same time all the relevant ministries are represented, namely: the Ministry of Tourism with the Secretary-General, the Ministry of Shipping, the Ministry of Finance - Public Property, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Culture with the Secretary-General. I would like to clarify that it is not generally about constructions in the cavalry, but only about tourist public properties. I mentioned the example. In combination with the increased tourist input in the country, they are intended to serve the public interest. It is not a provision for the legalisation of works in tourist public property. In addition - as is seen in the law - paragraph (d) says that the committee's object is to examine and express an opinion on the Minister for Tourism and Finance. It doesn't have any other role. There was a question about the fact that the Technical Chamber of Greece is not the eighth member and we should add a ninth. The engineers may also be represented by the Ministry of Infrastructure, who may be members of the Technical Chamber of Greece. As also - and here are colleagues Ministers who are engineers and can say more - the Technical Chamber of Greece is a advisor to the state. So in this case that the object of the committee is to examine and express an opinion, the Technical Chamber of Greece may express its own assent or opposition. I shall also come to the amendment with a general number of 1793 and a special 43. It is the amendment of Articles 3, 5 and 6 of Law 4062/2012. It's about the Greek. The provisions of this Article aim to adapt the provisions relating to the building permits of Law 4062/2012 to the new construction licence scheme introduced by Law 4495/2017. As a concept and a distinct phase of the construction authorisation process, it has now been abolished by Law 4495/2017, while the new procedure of pre-authorisation of a building licence that has replaced it is optional, with the exception of specific cases set out in paragraph 2 of Article 35 of Law 4495/2017. In other words, we are clearly coming to harmonize L 4062/2012 with L 4495/2017 where it is required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u169	The reason is the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u170	Madam Minister, I really would like to ask you, is the amendment you supported earlier, where for the tourist properties on the cavalry and the beach, do you take away the representation of the Technical Chamber, does it not make you feel anything? And I address Mr. Spirtzi and Mr. Flambury who are engineers. And it's about Mr. Tsipras. Listen, because this is a shameful amendment, and I hope you have been misled. I call it an engineer to mechanics. Listen, Mr President, what this is all about. It is a committee with service actors that will evaluate and monitor tourist properties on the cavalry and the beach. It will have seven members, as the Minister tells us, without the presence of the representative of a hundred and twenty thousand engineers, which is the Technical Chamber with various administrations at times. Mr. Infrastructural Minister, as former President of the TEE, I see you signed it. Did you sign such an amendment? And secondly, Mr President, do you think that the presence of the representative of the TEI will make it easier for you to make decisions faster or rather the presence of the representative of the Technical Chamber will ensure even more transparency in decision-making? Mr President, I would like to propose to the Government and to the two main ministers present, who are also engineers, that you take this amendment back and add the representative of the Chamber of Technical Affairs and its spokesperson for the S.A. Register. Because the whole digital background of the country for the cavalry and the beach, has it. Make a nine-member committee and be absolutely sure that this is how you ensure legality and transparency and, above all, public interest. I therefore think, to sum up, that this amendment should be withdrawn by the government and that an amendment that has in and has the representative of the TEI and its representative. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u172	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u173	Because there was a personal mention, Mr Maniotis, I imagine you remember, because the sensitivity to the Chamber of Technical Chambers caught you, that when I was President of the TEI you signed the abolition of 2%, i.e. the funds of the Chamber of Technical Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u174	Where did you bring it back?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u175	Of course, in too many ways and electronic systems. It's said the president of the TEI in the announcement he made about Mr. Stathakis. I imagine you remember the spectacular work that you had shown to remove the OPCW and to do the new "Register S.A.", which never had the competence of the saint and the beach. Never! And it is obvious why you abolished the OPCW - we were talking about it at that time - as you abolished other anonymous companies that were critical or organisations, such as the Athens Regulatory Plan, remember them. And you committed the country to them so that we could not come back next. So thank you very much for the moral lessons about respect for the Technical Chamber, but we do not need them. We do not need them especially from those who have fought for all the previous years, not even the Technical Chamber. As the amendment is of the Ministry of Finance, I undertake until the end of the meeting to contact the Minister of Finance so that, if he agrees, there is a legislative improvement in the amendment and there is a ninth member, second member, from the Ministry of Finance, and not to exclude the representative of the Chamber of Technical Affairs. But, thank you very much, we don't need any special lessons from you for the Chamber of Technical.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Maniotis, you're asking for the floor on staff. To limit the number of staff so as not to start a major debate outside. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u178	Wait a minute, of course. Mr President, the honourable Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, as President of the Chamber of Technical Chambers, knows very well that the Chamber of Technical Chamber of Commerce has conducted dozens of studies to support the operation of the Chamber of Technical Chambers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u179	Tell me one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u180	Among the other studies and between the other infrastructure projects is the digital background for the normalisation of the arbitrary and the digital infrastructure for the electronic city. Me and Mr. Spirtzis jointly operated in the second half of 2014 in ten towns in the country, and this system was functioning which trampled down corruption and stranded in town and Mr. Spirtzis' government, when Mr. Spirtz became Minister, abolished this provision and now, three and a half years late. So let the lessons of morality, Mr. Spirtzis, because the state of all of us is known in here and I must tell you that I am glad to hear that he is getting his signature back and will try to put the Chamber of Technical Representative in it now. This is called a naughty flight, but it's okay, welcoming the naughty flight.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u181	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u182	In this case, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, the digital background for the recording of the properties of the country, you do not like it, has it the "S.A. register" or whatever is called. It's a public service, it's your shop. You've appointed everyone. Put in, instantly, the vehicle that has the digital background for both the cavalry and the beach.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u183	Mr. Maniotis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u184	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u185	You said that, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u186	And that, above all, is the only vehicle that can be reliably, using satellite images, to locate all arbitraryness on the cavalry and the beach and to be a very useful tool in the hands of this committee. And because we have infinite reasons to disagree politically, understand at least once, that the proposal we are tabling to you is a proposal that benefits your government, and in the end is beneficial to the public interest. We won't put it all in the mixer of party controversy. Understood, finally. At least that's how we work.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, I would like to ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u188	But let's turn it off here, Minister, why is one of them talking to each other, understand? It's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u189	Okay, you're right, but what can we do? Anyone following the debate understands the extent of the distortion of what the government is doing with what Mr Maniotis presents. I don't get anything back. Firstly, I said I would contact the Minister for Finance, if he agrees, to expand. Secondly, it is no longer called "S.A. Register", with your own law called E.C.E.R., remember it. Thirdly, the digital background was not signed, Mr Manatis, by you, when I was President of the TEI. Mr Sifonaki was signed when the government then wanted to abolish the legalisation of the arbitrary, in accordance with constitutional provisions and to do so in the JEPs with an application. You've forgotten about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u190	Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u191	You've forgotten, it was after you were a State Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u192	The PASOK government, tell us to hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u193	Then when you were in the Samara government, you Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u194	Government PASOK, say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u195	...that you did all this work, and fortunately that the Technical Chamber then did the online building system that was recently applied, it was completed when I was president. Well done and you advertised this, thank you very much and personally, because we all have our history, just as you said, to bring transparency to the country and to towns. I wish you no more support for the same President of the TEI, as you did in previous elections, which shows your partnership with neoliberalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u196	Before I give the floor to Mr. Papa, I would like to inform the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-two students and apprentices and three educational sessions from the Kammar Achaea High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity "Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on minimum conditions for promoting the mobility of workers between Member States by improving the acquisition and maintenance of supplementary pension rights (L128/1 of 30.04.2014). The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Poppas, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u197	Thank you. Just five years ago, on November 1, 2013, two young Greeks, two golden people, two nationalists, were murdered in the sidewalk under the offices of the local organization of the Golden Dawn in New Heraklion. And they were murdered, just because they were members of the nationalist movement. We in the Golden Dawn do not forget our competitors and we will not stop honoring their secular memory. The state has demonstrated over the past five years an absolute indifference to the detection of crime, and unfortunately the moral perpetrators, the politically dead, are among us. We hope that the law will be rendered and the moment will come when the nemesis comes for both natural and moral perpetrators of this brutal murder of the two new Greeks. This happened five years ago. We don't forget. But we also have what happened four days ago. And I mean the cold-blooded murder of the hero Northcontinental, Constantine Katsifa, in the village of Vouliarats of Northern Epirus by Albanian police, obviously with orders, without any orders, I would say, intervention, protest or anything from the Greek side, from the Greek Government, and - why not say - why not? - from the Civic Opposition, which New Democracy in a lukewarm communiqué, politically correct, according to NATO, did not mention anywhere the term "North Continent". We must honor the hero Constantine Katsifa, because with his sacrifice he made known to the majority of young people, in the new generation, who ignores the Northern Epirus, ignores the fact that there is a slaved part of Greek land, with inhabitants of Greek for thousands of years and for the sake of the sacrifice of Katsifa, this has been known to the new generation. The political pact now and the developments currently taking place in Tirana - and I mean the matter with the medical examination, carried out by the Albanians, who have set up a committee of experts of three coroners, where there will be an observer only the lawyer of the family - the Golden Dawn directly, a little while ago, he filed a petition under Article 10 of the Constitution to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, with which we are calling for the intervention of Greek justice. We are asking for Greek justice to intervene in order, on its own initiative, to be able to attend a coroner on the Greek side, in order to make autopsy and necropsy on the hero's body and to enable the relevant Greek services, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the medical service, the Ministry of Civil Protection as quickly as possible. Instead, of course, we see the pilgrimized Greek - put a question mark - the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in which the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, refers to the cold murder of Constantine Katsifa, saying that we have reached a point of 'loss of human life'. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e., is a colossal pilgrimized ministry, which instead of using a language similar to that understood by Albanians - and the only language that Albanians understand is the language of power - it says of "loss of human life". In other words, it speaks as an insurance company in a life agreement, where the word "death" is forbidden, much more in the case of the brutal murder of Constantine Katsifa, where the word "death" is forbidden. We're waiting for the immediate reactions of justice. There will be evidence if there really is Greek justice. Now, will you tell me what I'm asking? We are therefore waiting for the Ice Bay's immediate reactions to the report we have made. But we didn't just stay there. We have tabled questions to the Greek Parliament, as we have tabled a similar question to the European Parliament. For those who want to find them in the Minutes. Take the question and report to the Ice Arrow Attorney's Attorney. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am going to the main theme, in the draft legislation under discussion, which is the concession agreement between the Greek State and the companies GAIAOSE with the Trieste Trade Center, the companies "ETVA" and the company "KOLISTAR CARGO" for the development - supposedly - of the Trieste Trade Center. The plans for this - within introductory words - "development" have already been launched since the early 1970s. The implementation has started since 2006 on a New Democracy government and was expected to be completed by the end of 2011. Logistics companies have already settled in the area, although, as we will see, they will not be served by this bill. It's a bill of supposed memorial age. However, our country remains, as everything shows - and the whole of the Greek people understands it -, as a result of its budgetary and other commitments to lenders. It will remain in this situation for too many years, with the common responsibility of your parties, the democratic arch, that is, as you like to call yourself, who jointly voted for the third memorandum on 14 August 2015. With this contract, you are selling off, ladies and gentlemen, against a lentil plate, another fillet, as the Trinity Field characterised, since the Greek State will immediately spend 36m euros to collect in a long time, in sixty years, that is, 31m euros. We're coming in. It's just math. To be honest, the Trinity Field is a strategic point - its separation - in other words - of its proximity to the Port of Piraeus, what it has to do with the airport and its access to the Attica Road, the railway connection, etc. We must not forget, however, that the area covered by this bill has huge problems. These are problems which have also been raised in the committee and, above all, by elected representatives of the region, such as the Mayor of the Egyptian Prime Minister. The problems of the region have not been solved, much more so with logistics. Logistics are not licensed and have literally planted in the area. It is in an area where we must note that it is environmentally deserved, extremely deserving. The district route of Aigaleo has not been completed. Anti-military works have not been completed. And you, the current government, the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict, with a fast track process to make an investment on privileged terms for the parties that are contrary to the conduct of competition with the rest of the region. You also come in violation of any concept of law, unconstitutional, scandalous - I would say - to give investors the following privilege: to exempt investors from the obligation to pay fees. The Municipality of Aspropyrgos, for example, will be obliged to support the streets, the streets there, the lighting. This, of course, costs will be borne by the municipality. Consequently, this cost is passed on to the municipality. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LABROYLIS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We do not doubt, therefore, that you want to create a special economic area, a special tax regime and then a special labour regime. You want all this. You want the - supposedly - to the left, the young - left, the American-populars, we say, to create an area where there will be truly workers slaves of EUR 200. It's a scandal, then, today's bill. And you take guarantees as a Stalinist public towards investors. When has this been heard to give Greek public guarantees to investors, i.e. against a process of business, which - if you like - also has a risk of entrepreneurial? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need two more minutes. Thank you very much. To make Greek public commitments, guarantees, but when it comes to roads, major works of general interest. We don't have any common interest here. Here we have an extra burying - I would say - of the deserving region of the Egyptian Prime Minister. We are clearly against the bill, but also against all the amendments. At this point, I would particularly like to focus on the amendment, which refers to the CEDEFOP. You know, when we say CCCTB, NGOs, hotspots, etc., we are talking about a million-euro party that plummets. And they're not just in your own government, are they? As we have the 'pink NGOs', we have the 'blue NGOs'. As we have direct assignments to SYRIZA - ANEL, we have direct assignments to "logues" of the New Democracy. All this has come out of the air for who is benefiting from all this million - million - year - old festival with irregular immigrants. So you are talking about hosting, hosting, identifying, etc. in this amendment. As for public health structures in Chios, Lesvos, Samos, Kos and Lero. Really, in Lesvos, what's going on? A question was tabled from the Golden Dawn, the other day, about the cases of tuberculosis we have in police officers. Will you follow the scorched one, that is that the gentleman who runs with you, Mr. Kammens for hotspots on the continent, who had the cases of tuberculosis in officers, followed? So tell us why we are afraid that the political cholera brought another disease to Greece. Along with illegal immigrants, he brought tuberculosis. We have pointed this out for the ruses that are being made in the CEDEFOP, for the health sector, that there are double-seaters, such as the doctor in Larissa, but it also takes 2,500 euros from Lesvos. In the newspaper "EMPROS" we have made such a publication. I'll testify for the Minutes. It is very recent, since October 13, 2018, the revelation of the newspaper “EMPROS”. I'm figuring it out so people can learn. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You should know that whatever you do, no matter how much you do to us, we will not stop, whether there is a trial or there is no trial, say what we believe, shout out the voice of truth and be on the side of the Greek people. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u198	Mr Bukokouros from New Democracy has the floor, and then, as the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy has said, he will follow us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, can I make a clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u200	Please, Minister, you have the floor for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u201	As far as the legislative improvement requested for Article 14(4) is concerned. In order to increase the number of Members, because it is difficult to bring the legislation forward at the moment - there are too many ministers who have to sign - and in the next period there will be an amendment to several articles, we are committed to taking this into account and bringing an integrated proposal to the next period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u202	Good. Your opinion has been recorded, Minister, and the answer to the colleague who has presented it obviously. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. What the Minister of Finance said, of course, in the positive direction is to include a representative of the TEI in a technical advisory committee dealing with such an important subject. He's a technical advisor to the state. We therefore have the commitment of the Secretary of State for Finance that, at the first opportunity, with the next bill, this issue will also be corrected. For the transhipment station in Thriasio, Minister, we would say that the New Democracy disagrees - and our rapporteur, Mr Karamanlis, has established this - with the bill because the technical, economic and financial framework of the investment is radically changed. Of course, the criticism you are making is that nothing has changed and, in any case, the amendment we are discussing concerns all the land of GIAOSE and in order to make them attractive to investors. Minister, I know very well where you bet. In my view, you are one of the most intelligent ministers of government, if not the most intelligent of all. You bet on the fact that "the New Democracy is in favour of investment" and "how much will the New Democracy react?". You did well and changed the terms for the plots of "GAIAOSE". Be attractive to investors. With a slight discrepancy you fail to keep saying that the competition for the Trieste was completed, the contractor had emerged and then the overall changes that you describe as such are then made. And that can't change, because in time it's happened the way we describe it. Look, Minister, if the matter stays here, it will fall into oblivion. If, however, there is any interested, competitor or opposing party in the future, then it is a good thing, in our view. That is the whole question that prevents us from voting on the bill. And for your criticism, Minister, I will politically address the question that the previous governments have been slowed down. Of course, the 2006 competition proved you with evidence and with the predictions of that competition that nothing had to do with today's competition. We cannot compare unparalleled things. But, Minister, it was the New Democracy Government with Prime Minister Kostas Karamanlis who brought 'COSCO' to Piraeus. This has increased the movement of containers and, in general, the trade movement and it creates the need to speed up such infrastructure, which in my opinion should be expanded rapidly across the country and in northern and central Greece. This is the reality and no one in this Chamber can adjust reality to its measures. We call on you, Minister, to be careful in your formulations concerning the New Democracy, but also in general, because the October that left us just yesterday was literally painted red. And it wasn't painted red by a new October Revolution, which you might have in the depth of your mind. The last October that left us yesterday was painted by the much 'government blood' that has been spilled this month. We had the Minister of Health here earlier telling us that he doubles the salaries of doctors to solve the problem in the centres of migrants. If that were enough, in every aspect of public life, we would double the wages of public officials and solve all the problems. It has taken our view that it is an infrastructural issue and a question of overpopulation. What, however, has happened, Minister? The former Director-General for Infrastructural Affairs of the Ministry of Migration Policy just last month has denounced the dispersion of funds and mismanagement of EUR 1.6 billion. Tell us you, where are you, Minister for Infrastructure, when the responsible secretary denounces mismanagement, how can infrastructure be improved in these centres? And that wasn't the only one. PPC's administration - to see how the government approachs the issues and what happened this month - has shown defects. She's a listed company with too many problems. The President also blames the damage of 900 million in three specific decisions of his Heads of State and PPC bought a shell in Skopje a few months ago. Other discussions about this. Do you want me to move on to what happened to the ERT in October and the complaints of officials that your government appointed? They weren't appointed by the Opposition. In order to come to your subject, Minister, there were great and justified discussions that the European Union canceled the 'Eleftherios Venizelos' concession and asked for a price. I know you've blamed the responsibility of the HICP. I know. But here we are talking about a government policy. It cannot be politically costed to go to the HIAD, as in the government fatality it goes, Minister. The European Commission has come and tells you that the price is degrading and requested 131% higher price. Think of what you would say if New Democracy were in your place. You would say that he tried to grab them, went to get them, went to assign "Eleftherios Venizelos" bit rather than. That's what you'd say. We don't. We are making points, we are making criticisms. Do you want to move on? What can I say about Kammen's complaints against Kotzia? It's a dynamic development. Mr. Kotzias is threatening to resort to justice. Here he accuses a member of the government, Minister of another Minister, of taking them with Soros, that is, with George Soros's company. These things have never happened before. And, indeed, where did these complaints come from? At a meeting of the Ministerial Council. They didn't happen in any media. And we're getting past everything like nothing's going on. What's the environment? Because yes, Minister, the business centres are well and must move forward quickly and transparently, because some other governments - you are constantly asking what has happened over the last 40 years - have brought some investors here, the top in the world, and not some whose surface is questioned, and jobs are going up - to say it just to understand us - and there is a need for new infrastructure. However, this was because the 'COSCO' came to the port of Piraeus, Minister. Don't forget. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, by pointing out that yesterday we also saw the FEK for the concession of the twenty-three regional airports. In the right direction it is moving, but we should also see the application. We have also seen from your colleague, the Minister for Maritime Affairs, the concessions for the ten regional ports. We will monitor all this because, yes, the New Democracy is in favour of investment, but with transparency and, above all, with many chances of sustainability. But, Minister, in order for businesses and investment to survive in a country such as Greece, there must be other reasons. I'm afraid in your case it won't happen. After all, the World Bank in the 2019 report classified Greece in terms of an entrepreneurial environment at the same level as Kyrgyzstan and Swaziland. And within this you bring us two years into drawers a debate on a constitutional review.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Bucketaut, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u205	I'm done, Mr. President. Let me say that this is not a picture of a serious government, a government which the critical circumstances require. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u206	Mr Aygeakis has the floor from New Democracy. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Kefaloyannis, then Mr Xydakis, Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, and Mr Mavraganis, will be followed. Finally, the list will be closed with Mrs Kafantaris. Please, Mr. Ausgeakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u207	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the concessions for the construction and operation of a freight centre in Thriasio is a project which we as the New Democracy have seen, we have designed, but we have also formed. Today we should have a festive climate and have voted in favour of the concession agreement. Unfortunately, however, we are in the regrettable position to discuss another scandal of your Government, instead of discussing a development plan contributing to the development of the region, which will contribute to the creation of new jobs, which will contribute to the economic recovery of our country and which will act as a major freight station for the country and with important international prospects. Therefore, instead of discussing the country's development potential, we find ourselves in the unpleasant position to discuss a scandalous SYRIZA - ANEL government convention. Finally, you are not only incompetent to the government, but you are also dangerous to the country. You have a capacity to create scandals on every issue you are oppressing. You have become the government of scandals. What do you want us to do first? Should we mention the recent categories of Kammenos to Kotzia at the Ministerial Council, where he accused government officials of taking money from Soros to defend the Prespecies Agreement? Complaints from Minister to other Ministers, in the presence of the Prime Minister himself? The Prime Minister's monumental and suspicious silence on this matter? Hide the resignation letter Kotzia and the threats Kotzia to the Prime Minister to make it public? Should we mention the issue of buying from the already injurious PPC of the injurious company of the Vice-President of the Skopje Government against the sum of EUR 4.8 million? You have not yet answered the feasibility of this terrible and terrible investment nor the damage it has created and will create in the future as well as in PPC. Should we refer to the issue of the EUR 1.6 billion that has been squandered for the worst camp that has ever been built for migration to Moria by so-called sensitive left-wings? Where'd that money go? You have not yet given any response to the investigation carried out by the European Union Anti-Fraud Office on this issue. Unfortunately, you are crossing our country internationally. Should we mention the famous Kammen scandal with the three hundred thousand missiles in Saudi Arabia? Another pitiful scene with Mr. Kammenos, Mr. Kotzias, middlemen, smugglers and three hundred thousand missiles. And I would remind you that a hundred thousand missiles had been called for by Saudi Arabia and, of course, Mr. Kammenus suffered from selling another two hundred thousand missiles. But where? Where would they go? Who'd take the money? Let us mention the secret assignment of ten thousand and nineteen houses owned by the Greek State for ninety years at the supranational level, without the government once again providing information on what these properties are, despite the questions we have asked, in a desperate attempt to avoid reactions. Let me remind you that from the position of counterpopulation you accused your politicians at that time of treason. What do you mean? Let's do a restart again! Now deliver in secret the management of public property and no left is bothered, despite the sensitivities you have had. To mention what has happened after the most serious complaints of ERT staff? Should we say he's in absolute decline? To stand only at the most recent scandal in the last quarter. No answer for any scandal, cover up, silence, guilty silence! And here comes Mr. Spirtzis, dear Christos, the Minister to bring another scandal, the concession contract for the construction and operation of a freight centre in Triasios. Minister, we have inherited a profitable contract for the Greek State and you have managed to turn it into another scandal - and keep that word - where the Greek State is damaged. Why is that? You must answer. Why, Minister, have you differentiated the terms of the contract, on which the only offer has been submitted, in relation to the terms of the final contract signed and which is now being ratified in Parliament by this bill? Why, Minister, have you reduced the one-off price by the concession agreement - a common advance - to be paid by the concessionaire to EUR 10 million? Why have you changed the decision of the General Assembly of the GAIAOSE, which was posted on the 'DENMARK' on 21-3-2018, which states that the single price to be paid by the concessionaire is EUR 20 million? Let me remind you that the EUR 20 million was the only price for the contract prepared by the New Democracy in 2006. In fact, Mr Spirtzi, you are reducing the single price by EUR 10 million at the same time as you double from thirty to sixty years of concession. Why, Minister, have you changed the contract? What took place, then, and from the opening of the tender to the signature of the contract, the one-off price was reduced by 50%? Why did you change the one price? Why are you so ‘large’, really, for the benefit of the concessionaire and to the detriment of the Greek public by harming it by EUR 10 million? Why, Minister, have you changed the building factor? Why from 0.4% on the submission of tenders and the maximum coverage rate was 40% increased overnight to 1.65% and the maximum coverage rate at 60%? Why have you exaggerated the overall capacity to build and from the original 235.330 square meters, you reach 970,000 square meters? Why, Minister, have you changed the possibility offered by the contract to the concessionaire to build and operate electricity generation facilities from renewable energy sources to serve users, but also to sell electricity to third parties? Why, Minister, according to the contract, is the concessionaire exempted from the municipal fees, existing and future? Why, Minister, is the Greek State committed during the concession period, that is to say, during the sixty years, not to, according to what you say and vote today, any changes to the Greek legislation that might harm the concessionaire? Why, Minister, does the Greek state commit itself to being able to legislate, for example, on the status of the wider region of Triasios? How, Mr Spirtzi, does this provision take precedence over our country's domestic law? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Minister, the changes you make to the contract are all in the interest of the concessionaire and damage the Greek State. All the changes took place after the binding offer was submitted and without any conversion of the proposed price at all. Minister, you continue the work of the scandals and the damage of the Greek government, which your Government is doing. You are worthy of being a member of the government, but of the government of scandals, of the government that harms the country and the Greek people. For all these reasons, of course, we will vote against today's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, thirty two students and apprentices and two educational attendants from the Kamaron Achaia High School (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Based on the design, as I found it with the change in the Bureau, the parliamentary representatives, as I said before, would be followed by the speeches, Mr Kefantaris and Mr Xydakis, after the Minister, and Mrs Kafantari last would speak by the speakers. The Minister has asked to intervene now. Do the two Parliamentary Representatives disagree to give the floor to Mr Mavragani, to follow Mrs Kafantaris and to close the first cycle before the seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u209	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u210	Mr. President, why do you leave me lately?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u211	Mrs. Kafantari, why are you doing this? Contact Mr. Xydakis or Mr. Kefaliannis if they give you the order. Why are you addressing the Bureau?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u212	Fixed tactics are to have a rotation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u213	One speaker was left by the Members. If, after the Minister has given the two parliamentarians the floor to Mrs Kafantaris, the Bureau has no objection. Here, Minister, you have the floor for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be as brief as possible. So I'm going straight to the heart of events. It was heard here by the New Democracy and the PASOK, which are totally inconsistent with their views - this makes us not a impression, it has been a mere attempt to mislead the social majority that it is something different - that since there is a big company that has invested - and it has done very well - in the port of Piraeus, we should have a different assessment from 2007, 2008 and, therefore, there should be a different price, a different economic offer. It has been dispersed, firstly, that they themselves have had some competitions from 2006 to 2014, of course inflamed, of course without any compromise, of course without any awarding to any of them. So, in fact, even if some offers had been submitted at one time, these offers never came to their final stage and they retreated those who offered what they offered. Therefore, we should see that in the years that they have ruled they have achieved absolutely zero. Why did they achieve absolute zero, ask someone, since it's a fillet, and we all agree? And we think it's a key point. One explanation is that the freight stations for New Democracy and PASOK were about unknown. It was about a juncture of trucks coming - so they had it in mind - without any strategy for the transport plan, without any strategy for freight stations and malls. They had made a law in the right direction, Law 3333/2005, which they abolished in 2013-2014. They came to the absolute gap without any strategy, which we built and built. They were sensitive to the general institutional framework for the establishment of freight stations, those who are here today saying that we want to move towards ensuring equal conditions in all directions for freight stations? No, never. Why? Because they had been included in stricter environmental legislation, while they should not have been, some small freight stations and because they required the toughest procedure for the establishment of such freight stations. We have simplified these, so as not to bore you, by primary and secondary legislation, i.e. simple laws and, of course, by ministerial decisions. The second cause, however, for which they have never succeeded in making use of this really important economic element for society, the state and the economy, is more essential. The demand for construction, for buildings, has always been about 240,000 square meters. Please give some attention to understand - and you and the Greek people who are listening - exactly what the problem is. Sometimes when you want to say something and fight someone, you fall yourself into the trap. What did they all say as the main axis of their counterpart? What we gave, he says, differentiated the build-up factor four times the building capacity. No falseer than that! Why? I'll just say it. The contour of the building is a tumor. Whatever you give to a builder, if the contour is specific, you can't go to square meters. But what was going on here? Under the conditions of construction, as established in the 2000s, 87,000 square meters could be built, while in the 2004 auction, 2006, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 required a building of 240,000 square meters. And one says: But what kind of lunatic would be going to participate in a auction that he is told by the auction that you are obliged to build 240,000 square meters and the conditions of construction allow him to build 87,000 square meters? At the same time they make legislation - in 2010, if I remember correctly, Article 63a - which says they can exceptionally, if the Minister proposes that it should be a presidential decree specialising in increasing the conditions for building in the matrimonial centres. In other words, they were being held hostage, although since the Minister concerned wanted, after the contract, perhaps even after the auction of this freight centre, to increase. I ask this: Did this create either disobedience, yes or no? Did it create the possibility of such impunity when, on the one hand, it obliges you to build 240,000 square meters and participate in a auction and, on the other hand, enable you to build 87,000 square meters and close your eye, saying, "I have exceptionally legislation that could work differently"? So what did we do? We did the most honest thing, i.e. Law 4530/2018. We differentiated the conditions of construction to build on the freight station - what the Greek state has always wanted over a period of 240,000 square meters. That's what we did to be honest and not to be traded. And they come and denounce us, one engineer, the other engineer again. Tahas don't know you can't build more than the tumor! They had brought the president from the Technical Chamber. What's that supposed to mean? To say that they do not apply, when we know that the building coefficient is multiplied by "5", to catch the volume factor and that construction is specific? And that's exactly why I'm telling you. I would ask, therefore, that if you really wanted to make use of this asset of the Greek state - and it is not so much the money that comes to the Greek state, as great benefit and I say it to you in honour of my business with transport, is mobility in transport and the leverage of products that can give this freight centre - if you wanted to move in this direction, would you have differentiated the conditions of construction, as we did honestly? Yeah. Why didn't they? At the same time, I would remind you that there is a congested area of 1.450 acres in which EUR 200 million from the European Union has been invested. There is a ‘dead line’, that is to say, until March 2019 the compatibility of this freight station will otherwise be withdrawn and the EUR 200 million will be sought. Alongside, therefore, it is an apple of precipitation and the market was asked to get both packages out. So did some people want such contradictory provisions in the contract notice and the conditions of construction to end up under the tomacle break of the withdrawal of funds from the European Union to give it all together? Gentlemen, your dreams are a nightmare of the Greek people. We'll never go back to you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and run, twelve students from Norway. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We will now give the floor to Mrs Kafantaris, as I see that there is no objection, and then the two parliamentary representatives, Mr Kefaliannis and Mr Xydakis will take the floor. Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u216	First of all, Mr President, I would like to thank those who have given me the floor. Our subject today is the mathematical center in the Triumph. However, I will be tempted to respond to a number of questions, because I see by following the House, opposition has virtually lost its accounts behind each other. I referred to a number of issues and, above all, to the big issue of growth in the economy and the country. We've been dating since a difficult eight-year. We're in the memorial period, as we say. Our country is gradually recovering. That's nothing general and vague. The various economic evidence proves it. In the first half of 2018 Greece became acquainted with a strengthening of the confidence of international markets and its economic recovery. The main driving force behind this development was clean exports and private consumption, and the increase in stocks, which suggests expectations of increasing demand. In particular, during the first half of 2015 the second largest volume of exports, goods and services of at least the last decade occurred: 8.7% compared with 12.2% in 2015, with exports of goods increasing 8.7% and exports of services 9%. In addition, a positive development is considered to be an increase in the volume of private consumption by 0.5% in semester, 1% in the second quarter, while the growth rate of GDP first converging entirely with the European Union in 1919. This is from the press release of the Ministry of Economy. I would like - and some bad option can say anything - to present an article, which was published on 11-7-2018 in a newspaper which I do not think is SYRIZA. It is ‘KATHMERINI’ and refers to ‘ERNST & YOUNG’. In particular, it says that in Greece foreign direct investment almost doubled in 2017, offering around a thousand hundred and ninety-five new jobs. He's talking about inside and more specific things. I should also like to say that in 2017 it was closed with foreign direct investment around 4 billion, something less, etc. Not to mention the absorption of the Juncker Package where we are first in Europe, etc. I would therefore like to present this July post. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Charula (Haras) Kafantaris, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But, at the same time, there are also large investments. The geostrategic position of our country, its geographical and geopolitical position is important. We are actually at the threshold of the three continents and energy, with large energy projects, which I recall, either the TAP, the IGB, or others at the level of energy. I would also like to remind you of the great investment interest in the research and extraction of hydrocarbons in international colostrums. All this is a vote in the Greek economy and shows the great investment interest there is. I would say, therefore, that apart from a node of energy, commercial, digital, our country tends to become a transit hub, making use of its geographical and geopolitical position. In recent years, freight transport has been showing particular growth and is about to be launched by the development of organised freight centres, such as the one we are discussing today. We expect that, with innovative transport services, the cost of transport will be reduced and the final cost of transporting goods will be reduced. This investment is expected to exceed 200 million and to create over a decade of about three thousand to five thousand jobs. Good transport is one of the most important factors in a country's economic development. The freight centres achieve a better organisation of transport systems, which helps to minimise transport costs, as we have said before, and to adapt to the favourable international conditions for the development of combined transport, which is the European Union's primary policy. Expected benefits: One-off concession fee of 10 million, plus an annual fee of 350,000 per year for the contracting company and over the sixty years of the concession period, amounting to 2.51% of its gross annual revenue, guaranteeing at the same time a minimum payment starting from 350,000 per year. The concession agreement also imposes on the concessionaire an obligation to implement a binding investment programme. It is very important to see Article 3 that in the train control and traffic sector, in the OSE, those officials who had been removed from the OSE since the previous coup d'état of New Democracy and PASOK, who have the necessary knowledge and experience to take up positions in critical qualifications, can return to the OSE. I will say a few words about the history, because a lot has been said 'who, what, for so many years'. The first competition procedure took place in 2006 until 2009. There were two candidates, the tender was cancelled because the offer of the Temporary Contractor was withdrawn. Then the price was 1.5 million with one company. In 2006 the market could then respond to a higher price. Today is a single EUR 10 million initial price. We have three offers and four big companies. The second competition procedure took place in 2010 until 2011. The previous competition was canceled, too. The competition took place in a phase and was cancelled in 2011 without any tender being submitted. He was judged to be barren. The third competition procedure took place in 2012. The process has been canceled again. The fourth competition procedure was from 2014 until 2018, where important conditions of the declaration were changed. In other words, a comprehensive strategic infrastructure, which includes significant benefits, will attract productive investment. Also, to say it's not just the Trinity. It's the beginning of a major freight centre. Also, it is Thessaloniki that goes ahead, followed by Volos, Larissa, Kavala, Alexandroupolis, Patras. Our country is therefore an energy, digital, commercial and transit hub in the critical geographical location in which it is located at the crossroads of the three continents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mrs Kafantaris, for completing the list of speakers. We shall give the floor to the two Parliamentary Representatives of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, whose speeches will be completed and to those who wished to speak. Then we will give the Minister the floor, and we will enter the secondary procedure. Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. I shall start with two introductory remarks. One is the majority rapporteur. I heard him this morning saying that Mr. Mitsotakis allegedly prevents investors from now coming to invest in the country. I would say that we should be more careful and not just look at the non paper sent from Maximos. Nowhere by Kyriakos Mitsotakis did not say "do not come to invest in the country". There are at least twenty statements which I can make in the Minutes, which says that "even now that we are a Predictive Opposition of them we urge everyone to invest in the country, because we believe that in a few months' time we will be a government we will be able to "stuff" the procedures", of course, unlike Mr. Tsipras - and I put this in the Minutes - which said in 2013 that "those who come to speculate will also be accountable to the law". [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You remember very well how many times the current Prime Minister, then the President of Officerial Representation, prevented investors from coming in 2013, in 2014, until he took over power. So, I think when that precedent exists, it's good to be more careful. Before I go to the news and the bill, the Minister will allow me to make a comment on what has been said before. If I understood correctly, Minister, in your attempt to justify the reason for the increase in the build-up rate, it is that the former regime was allowed to build around eighty-seven thousand square meters and yet the notice said that it should be built around two hundred thousand. You know, Minister, I have a mathematical mania. If you see the multiplication, it means that you should actually increase the factor by 2.6%. Do you know how much you raised him? You raised him 4.1%. From 0.4% you reached 1.65%.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u219	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u220	You'll tell us in your dentistry. So, 1,65%. Look at the law. I did not intend to go into matters, if you wish, because I think there are the most evil points in the convention somewhere else. But still, I think that your argument is back. Very quickly, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me another comment on the constitutional review, to which the Prime Minister referred in the last few days. We as a New Democracy will in no way let SYRIZA and ANEL benefit from a very important process for the country. Indeed, Kyriakos Mitsotakis has already announced that on Tuesday in the New Democracy Parliamentary Group he will announce his proposals regarding changing the country's charter. In fact, I would remind you that from this Chamber as early as 2016, the President of the New Democracy had said that the conditions are indeed mature in order to proceed with a revision of the Constitution. Indeed, he had made a very brave proposal to Mr. Tsipras, which he repeated over the past few days: "Come here to agree on what articles are to be revised so that the next House is to be the one which, by a simple majority, will proceed to the real revision of the Constitution", that is, the content of these articles. Let us decide, in principle, what articles we need to change, let us all agree on this, and in the next House, whoever is first, has won the elections, and has the majority, to have the opportunity to change the Constitution as well. I understand, of course, that we all believe that SYRIZA will be defeated in the next elections, so such a proposal is very difficult to accept, because we know very well who will have the majority in the next House. Nevertheless, if, ladies and gentlemen of the coup d'état, you want to move on to a brave constitutional review, let us agree on the basics - in any case, this also requires the Constitution - and from there on, it will be the next Parliament which will also come into the contents of these articles. What made me very much impression is that Mr Tsipras - I mean the Maximos Mansion in his announcement - used the word 'cybism'. He is obviously ashamed to use the word "associated" which is now globally consolidated next to Mr. Tsipras. Let me remind him that cubism means seeking to introduce the referendums in the Constitution as well, when you had become laughter in 2015 and others would get you the referendum and so on. Civicism means wanting to disconnect the presidential election from the challenge of new elections when you actually did this arrangement in order to rise to power. And, of course, cubicness is when I care about the public character of electricity and water and you have sold them out for ninety years at the superstition, and when you get cut out for the article on the responsibility of Ministers, but in 2006, that is, 12 years ago, when Mr Mitsotakis as a mere MP at that time had proposed, no one from the SYRIZA, no one from the Left had signed this proposal at that time. So I would say that Mr. Tsipras should be much more careful when he refers to cubs. Now let's go to the bill. If, in fact, ladies and gentlemen of the House, you consider this particular aspect so much - if you like - privatization and under the conditions that have taken place, I think that today the Chamber of Members would be almost there to try to defend this bill. You know, Minister, how many MPs from the Coalition have today come to defend your bill? Just two courageous MPs from SYRIZA, Mrs Kafantar, and another colleague, came and said how great this privatisation is. This should only concern you if you really believe what you were saying as government, that it is a huge incision, that it is a very big investment. Sadly, however, they understand - and, if you like, they maintain themselves and try to protect themselves - that they cannot say too much talk. Unfortunately, in an investment - a station really for the efficient operation of the supply chain and not just a - if you like - investment that we as a New Democracy could support in principle, under the conditions that you are bringing it across, we are 'in fact'. I believe that the greatest damage you do in the way you come is the bad precedent you are creating, that is to say, that you are creating a precedent for the promotion of a concession in terms that are incompatible with a European country, in a rule of law where the game is played fairly and in accordance with rules that are respected by everyone. This is because, in the final analysis, Minister, this investment becomes the legend and a very bad signal that your Government sends to any potential investor, namely that everyone can come here to invest, and if the conditions that the government puts - take care - for the benefit of the Greek public, for the benefit of the Greek economy and society, are not acceptable to the investor, those with legislative intervention may change. A second very large negative precedent, which is created in the way of the concession of Thriassius, is that for the first time in a very large private investment the majority of the business risk for its implementation is not borne by the private investor, but by the Greek State itself. I, Mr Minister, will give you very specific points of the contract and I would really like an answer to them. And I would explain: In the original list of sources and uses of the binding bid, which the consortium submitted, it was foreseen that binding investment - i.e. equity - would be EUR 36 million and a secondary debt of zero. It was also foreseen that the lending of the T1 period, guaranteed by the State, would be EUR 49 million, while in the T2 period, which does not involve the State, would be around EUR 50 million. By retrospectively amending the terms of the contract notice and its ratification in Article 16.5. A of the contract, you give the consortium the right to increase its lending in the period T1, in the first period, and to reduce its binding investment of EUR 36 million in its offer. Therefore, the Greek State, ladies and gentlemen, does not only guarantee the original loan of the contractor, but also the additional one transferred from the T2 to T1 period. Of course, Minister, there is even worse. In point 9.4 of the Convention, the State’s loan guarantee will be valid even if ‘GIAOSE’ is replaced by any successor. To say this, ladies and gentlemen, more practically, even that GIAOSE is deciding to privatise some time. The Greek State's loan guarantee remains. I would like, Minister, to give me very specific answers on why these changes have taken place. I don't get into building and coverage at all. That is what I think those who have heard us can draw their conclusions. But what I'm telling you is much more specific. We have said, therefore, that the contract that we are currently dominating reduces, in 1/3, commitment investment and increased by 1/3, from 50 million to 75 million, the loan to be called on by the Greek State to guarantee by taking the risk. Of course you could answer me that the public often guarantees infrastructure, and you might be right, Minister, but we are not talking about infrastructure, we are talking about commercial activity. In our case, we have a pure commercial activity. When you give the contractor, for example, the possibility of building facilities and selling electricity to third parties, I think you clearly have a business. I sum up: in August 2016 in statements you spoke about an investment of EUR 250 million. With this binding offer it fell to EUR 150 million and in fact the binding investment is only EUR 10 million. The rest is borrowing that will in fact guarantee the Greek State. And I ask you: These investments, Minister, do you dream as a government? Is that what the transparent preachers are asking us to vote on? In 2016, you spoke about transparency and protection of the public interest. Truly, how do you serve this transparency when there are these changes to the terms that I described earlier? How can you speak of parity when you relieve a private investment from municipal fees, existing and future? I think the Mayor of the Egyptian Prime Minister has pointed this out to you. And how is it possible for all the close investment to pay a significant fee for public fees and taxes and the concessionaire of this contract actually does not pay anything? I ask: is there not an environmental footprint in this investment? Won't vehicle traffic multiply? How are there no colleagues from the ecological component of SYRIZA right now who are reacting to the way you bring this bill? One comment, Minister, I would like to make on Article 28.1.3 of the Convention. This really is unprecedented. In fact, the Greek State is self-determination, which for the next sixty years forbids itself to proceed with an amendment of the legislation if it harms the concessionaire. It is not just a question of unconstitutionality. It is also that for sixty years you actually recognize in advance the concessionaire that he will be able to claim compensation against the public. And that's unprecedented. We call on you, Minister, directly if you really want to proceed with open conditions, since you really want - as Mr Mavraanis has already explained - to change the rates of construction and cover for specific reasons, to get this contest back on the new terms, so that the conditions can be open to all those who really want to invest in the country. In the way you do, with the legislative intervention which has been preceded and with which you are, unfortunately, leaving too many gaps, too many 'grey areas'. Very briefly, ladies and gentlemen, I also come to the amendments. With regard to Ministerial Amendment 1790/40, which the Minister had announced at the third meeting of the committee, we will be positive because we are indeed satisfied with a request for both opposition and the President of the workers of the OSCE. I shall now proceed to Amendment No 1792/42. Here, Minister, I have a personal question. I ask you: would you support this amendment in your previous capacity as President of the TEI? So, would you support the fact that there is not actually the representative of the TEU in this process? I'm the one who filed the press release that took off the TEI for the record. [[At this point the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It doesn't mean, Minister, that if there's an administration in the TE that you might not be politically inconceivable, that it should be removed...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u221	I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u222	Do you agree that he should retire?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u223	I agree with what you said, that if the TEI has an alpha management, you shouldn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u224	Yes, but nonetheless, Minister, you're bringing in an amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u225	I explained it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u226	Okay, I was out of halloween. As far as Amendment No 1791/4 is concerned, our position here is negative. As far as Amendment No 1774/44 is concerned, we will be positive. Finally, for Amendment No 1793/43, which you are also moving towards a change in environmental building permits in Greece, we will say'residents'. Unfortunately, we think that there are also a number of issues which have not been sufficiently explained. However, in order to avoid any misinterpretation of the fact that the New Democracy allegedly intervenes in delaying a genuinely flagrant investment, we therefore call it'residents'. However, we will follow her then, and if we are more specific, we will be against any sort of impediment on the part of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Before giving the floor to Mr Xydakis, Mr Spirtzis has asked for the floor to support an amendment and make some legislative improvements. Here, Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u228	With the proposed amendment we restore the distortions of L.3891/2010 to OSE, an OSE that New Democracy and the PASOK after they cut him apart and demolished him from his qualified staff, then they denounced him by leaving the empty carcase. With the amendment we bring OSE back as a protagonist on the railroad and make him a definitive and once-a-half beneficiary of the rail freight centre in the Triumph. This concludes today the institutional framework with which we will immediately proceed to the tender for the exploitation of the OSE transit centre in Trieste and in the next few months we will have the largest and most modern railway freight centre in southern Europe in full.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u229	Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt you, that's what we need to record in the Minutes. What you have just said is in the amendment with a general number of 1790 and a specialist of 40.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u230	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u231	Please, you have the floor. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u232	We both have two legislative improvements. In one - which has been requested by the JRC - we add to the specialties which will be returned by other bodies to the Ministry, in particular the OSE, the specialities of line workers, line technicians and engineers. It is clear from Amendment No 1790/40 that the OSE...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u233	Clearly, Minister, may I ask...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u234	Wait till the Minister finishes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u235	We complete the specialties that will be returned to the OSE that had been transferred to other entities and these specialties include line workers, line technicians and engineers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u236	So you are improving your own amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u237	In fact, it is a legislative improvement to the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u238	It's a legal improvement, Mr. Maniatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u239	It is also clear from Amendment No 1790/40 that the OSE is again gaining all the rights and obligations of any former manager. With regard to what the JRC has asked for again, for the skills employed in cabins, because they were not permanent staff and were on contractor, we unfortunately need to work with the Ministry of Labour to examine how they can be legally recruited. I'm making the legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u240	I shall now give the floor to Mr Xydakis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. Then the Minister will follow and then the seconds of special speakers and rapporteurs. It is good to have an image in the Bureau from the speakers and rapporteurs, who wish to speak to us. Thank you. Here, Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a note on the amendment brought by the Minister for Health to motivate doctors to the housing structures of refugees. Other colleagues welcomed her. Others have not even understood what it is about, what difficulty it is to attract doctors to really difficult conditions. It's neither a university clinic nor any urban medicine. It's a difficult situation. Indeed, the motives given by the Ministry of Health are very generous, and wages, but also the recognition, modulation of this service and the facilitation of young doctors. We therefore show in fact that we are adapting to difficult and fluid conditions. It's constantly changing the scenery. It is not a problem which, with a regulatory provision and a framework, you are ending. The problem of refugees and migration flows, to the extent that there are unsurpassed problems both in sub-Saharan Africa and in the Middle East, as well as other warfare outbreaks of the east, appeared sharply in 2015, since there has been - let us remember - since 1990 and will continue with a variety of tensions and forms and new features in the years ahead. It is a phenomenon which is already changing Europe's political geography towards the worst - I am afraid - unfortunately. And it is an issue to which democracies must respond with wisdom, care and glimpse in the future rather than with this famous rhetoric of identities and the refusal to recognise a changing and difficult reality and to recourse to white, blonde, Christian nations, which refer to the darkest periods of the twentieth century. This is the task of the democracies, this is the task of the parliaments, and this is the task of the citizens and politicians, to talk and to work out. In this direction, I would like to point out - and we have said so on several occasions in Parliament - a disposition of arson rhetoric and a permanent illusion with heavy adjectives - which, fortunately, not all, but a large part - of the opposition, constantly speak of scandals without any arguments or any presumptions to come forward with heavy, deceptive and degrading characterisations which do not concern the face of a minister or the person of the Prime Minister - who are institutions, elected and controlled constantly - but which, unfortunately, concern the person of the institutions in democracy itself and promote the disruption of the faith of citizens in democracy and the value of the dialogue that we should do here. A lot more so when some of my fellow Members are clearing up these arsenals, they are being checked and investigated for their involvement in circles of outlaws and others. They should be very careful. Because, thanks to the tolerance of others or their parties, there are still not persecuted. But the shadow of the investigations and the shadow of the complaints remains. With the same tone we have heard Members here with pre-emption and easily speaking about the big national and foreign policy issues. On the occasion of the murder of the Greek citizen, our compatriot in the Northern Epirus and various other things that are happening, the Greek state, the Greek democracy with great wisdom and thought, is trying to play a stabilizing role and put - as far as it can - another framework in the troubled Balkans. So it seems to me how to raise tones in matters and invoke political leaders such as Mr Samaras, who took the lead with his haste and unwise actions in the early 1990s, when he was Minister of Foreign Affairs, in the desolating of Northern Epirus from the Greek secular element and immediately after the historic involvement of Macedonian, when he led the government to the fall and to a historical involvement of the Greek Republic in the Balkans. I am surprised, then, how the stagnation that faced these issues is being invoked when, in the major strides, after the end of the cold war, his attitude to two top issues was at least in the direction of stagnation, inertia and destructive consequences. So, more carefully, the koruna of the ultrapatriots and nationalists. Yesterday, the President of Parliament handed over the material found in the archives of the Parliament to the Cyprus Folder. Sixty - seventy volumes will be delivered. The first was already handed over to the House of the Republic of Cyprus. Already with the first readings of historians, researchers and journalists, there is evidence of shocking that were absent from historical research. Why am I saying that? Let us wait, let us be cool, let us be serious, let us take careful steps, because the crowns, the rushes and the declaration of bombing led to a national tragedy. The Greek junta, moved or even designed by foreign centers until 1967 at the peaks of the cold war, left Greece smoothly. The scars he left are deep and are mainly the loss of the Greek territory, the sovereign territory of the Republic of Cyprus, are the dead, they are the humiliation, they are the most important thing to do with the nostalgia of foolish, foolish or stupid post-fascist, who are nostalgic in the period of dictatorship. A final comment on this coined, fragmented speech of the New Democracy, when it talks about the government of unworthy, scandals, destroyers, those who cost 200 billion in the first half of the year, nonsense and trembling that have no basis, have no status and no arguments. One of the latest obsessions - because it is a matter of perseverance, even completely unhistory - is the obsession for the constitutional review in Article 16 on the public nature of the education and change of this article. And because the New Democracy, which has a tradition and some centralised openings and a popular character on the so-called popular right, forgets its own past, forgets the very principles of its founder, Constantine Karamanlis, and flirts with other models - in insurance he flirted with the Chilean model - I will remind them, because I had a direct opinion and contacted them last time with top institutions of Chile, the current Republic of Chile, what is going on there in education, which you are flirting with, with the private universities. Dictator Pinochet reduced expenditure on public universities by 70%. When democracy has recovered, it is trying to bring them back to the pre-democratic levels. The whole neoliberal laboratory, in which Chile was transformed from Chicago Boys, filled Chile with private universities. This is the paradise of neoliberalism right now in Chile. Can I tell you what the results are, according to what the Chilean Parliament's top actors have told me? Twenty-five legal schools have been established in a country of sixteen million. Thirty - four dentist schools have been established in a country of 16 million. Let me remind you that in Greece of eleven there are two dentist schools and overcoming the needs of the population, and in the United States, inventors of dentistry operate sixteen dentistry. This is the neoliberal lab. However, the most shocking element, which was mentioned to me by the former Minister of Government and now leader of the major opposition that both legislative bodies in Chile control, is this: 65% of the people and students, mainly from poor strata, who are studying at private universities, are leaving in the second year. They lose their tuition fees and lose any prospect of ending their schools. Coming up. The great change in Greek society took place in the 1960s, first government of George Papandreou, when publicity was imposed at the public university. These great changes have built the great small and medium-sized sea, the great sea of the people's strata and microcatas, who have studied, raised, stumbled and built Greek democracy. Behind your ideas or oligarchic commitments, do not go undermining what was built throughout the post-war Greece. The education system needs reform, it needs adaptations to the new social conditions, to the new economic needs, but do not lead households to the madness of breaking down the poor family income. In addition to the public character of the public university, we must improve, consolidate, fasten and make the university even better. They offered the public universities in the country. They offered national work, offered social work, offered thousands of great scientists, technicians and officials of public administration and spiritual life. Be careful and better informed of what has happened in Greece and about education and about the relationship between private and public. The Left has not come to impose ideologies. The left is only more informed about the current needs and cravings of the Greek people who entered into a crisis and try to come out, maintaining the two great ideals: freedom and equality. Equality is in the public character of the university. Keep this in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u242	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport has the floor, Mr. Spirtzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u243	With the amendment to the representative of the TEE, what will happen, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u244	Mrs Papanatsiou has committed herself - because she cannot collect from seven ministers now the amendment - that she will be in the bill for the cavalry. He said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u245	Minister, will you bring the amendment back?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u246	The Ministry of Finance has committed itself, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u247	Minister, answer during your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u248	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good month, a month with a number of development and productive actions, new contracts for critical infrastructure that has been pending for decades. And there will be an opportunity for the poorly-appointed Opposition to denounce us from now on for a multitude of scandals. Our vision for our country, and also for the wider region of the Balkans, includes critical transport infrastructure that support healthy productive forces, the country's productive reconstruction, the social needs of citizens. In this National Strategic Plan of the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, the vision for our country, the Balkans are all part of combined transport, maritime transport, ports, freight centres, railway infrastructure, international connections, road transport. Greece finally comes to take advantage of its position as an international combined transport centre and, at the same time, through this action, to achieve, firstly, to upgrade our geopolitical position, secondly, to attract new production and manufacturing structures, thirdly, to build relations between cooperation and mutual productive activities with the Balkan countries and, fourthly, to convert the Balkan peninsula into a pioneer country from Europe's pilgrimage to a region of peace, security, cooperation and real friendship. Convert the forgotten border regions of northern Greece to live productive areas, to areas that will regain the population, to activities and to the daily cooperation we have with the Balkan peoples. This plan is consistently served. Today's ratification of the Trinity Trade Center contract is another one of a number of infrastructure projects that we are implementing for the implementation of the National Strategic Plan. For example, the completion of the Egnatia road link with Krystalopi, the vertical axis in Rhodope, the completion of the first part of the vertical axis of Alexandroupolis and the next months of the rest of the axis, the start of the construction of the third vertical road axis in Xanthi, the completion of the construction of the double railway line from Athens to Thessaloniki, the completion of the electrified railway line Thessaloniki - Idomeni, the completion of the competitive procedures for rail connection - finally! - Athens - Patras, the completion of the infrastructure of the Triasios transit centre - and it is another of the freight that we are currently dominating - the competitive process of the Thessaloniki freight centre - Camp Gonos and many more, which will be given the opportunity to the Anti-Policy, on its embarrassment, to report to us about scandals. Above all, however, we are implementing the agreement with Bulgaria on the linking of the ports of Thessaloniki, Kavala and Alexandroupolis with the ports of Burgas and Varna on the Black Sea and Rousse on the Danube. The Prime Minister's vision and the agreement of the leaders of the Balkan countries for a combined multimodal transport ring, centred in Thessaloniki, which will include the ports of Bulgaria, Romania, Serbia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, matures and moves towards agreement and implementation. And all this with an international and European environment to accept and support our implementation and national planning and this has been expressed by both President Juncker and the Commissioners responsible, Commissioner Bultz and Commissioner Kretshu. In this ambitious, visionary and realistic plan, Thriassio, as a single structure of the freight and transit centre, is judged, not by us, but by international transport and by European planning, as necessary. It is one of the largest freight centres and certainly the most modern in Europe, and that is why, after the delays and decades, a specific timetable and specific obligations were set for our country to implement it. I will present the decision of the committee sent to us by Mrs Cretsu. I'll read it from inside so there's no doubt about it. It was decided that, in addition to the inclusion in the ESRB financial contribution, the Hellenic Republic shall submit to the Committee a report every six months, starting from 31 March 2017, on the measures taken to complete that major project. Second, the Hellenic Republic shall submit to the Committee no later than 31 March 2019 the following information on the progress and finalisation of the project: First, the issue of a final receipt of the public works carried out in the Triasian Field freight complex. Secondly, ratification by the Greek Parliament of the concession contract for the construction and operation of the 'private Goods Centre'. Thirdly, reports by an independent engineer on the progress of projects and the risks, etc. Fourthly, a certificate of completion of the works by an independent engineer for the ‘private Trade Center’. Fifth, signature of a PPP contract for the overall operation of the Trieste Field freight complex. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This Decision is addressed to the Hellenic Republic, dated 19-7-2017, because some people do not know. Although, as on motorways, no one expected the completion of the contract and the major project in the transit centre, they were completed. The same happened with the highways. We have congratulated on that. Contests have been completed for the currently dominated freight centre, a project that will bring about three to five thousand permanent jobs. The Convention was sent and approved by the Court of Auditors and I stress this. So, what else is going to happen? And it comes today for ratification in Parliament, it follows the competition for the operation of the transit centre and for the meetings of the committees, where very detailed discussions have been held, that all the answers have been given. We'll repeat them so there won't be any questions. Watching the debate, we are seeing a political psychological bias: When you are disappointed in the opposition, in a bad psychological situation, you are complaining of scandals, you tell us to resign, you are asking for elections and everything else. When you're in good psychological condition, you've been complaining about delays. This, however, was expressed in both ways today. In other words, it is the position that has been made by Mr. Bourras - I see here - Mr. Boukoro, and other than Mr. Aygeakis. I'm not talking about Mr. Georgiadis because he was misinformed and lured by Mr. Maniotis. It is therefore an undeniable fact - to have the whole story - that the expropriations for the Trieste Trade Center were made in 1979, thirty-nine years ago. It is also undeniable that this is the first time that the convention has been concluded and is coming for ratification in the House, after numerous efforts of competition, which were barren, have not been fruitful, have not been completed, since there have been tenders that have not resulted in a contract. So why are you trying to compare it to your efforts that have not been fruitful? You have a responsibility that isn't fruitful. Because we all understand what it would be like to have since 2009, about ten years ago, the Triumph is running. You're telling us it's too low the price and it's fillet. Yes, sir. Why did you then have so many competitive procedures, from 2006 to 2009, in 2010 and in 2011, come out atrocious? And why came only one offer in 2016, since it's a fillet? And we are talking about offering in the crisis, not in 2006 where the cows were 'bone' and the banks were working differently. We are talking about 2016, which you still told us that we will not get the country out of the memorials, that everything else will continue. And let us say - which is not in any way the case - that you are right. Do you want to see a little if the contract is so scandalous, who have the contract? Who are the contract bidders? 80% is in ETVA. The 35% of ETVA has the Greek State directly and the rest of it is held by Piraeus Bank, where the Greek State has 26%. Are you condemning us for a scandalous contract in a 80% partnership that ETVA has, which is the Greek state? Are we intertwining with the Greek state? Is that why you're complaining to us? Even so, it is not true. If the conditions were changed, it would obviously not pass either by the Court of Auditors or by a series of procedures before it. So I challenge those who have said that we should change the terms of the tender, bring us a call for tenders, to prove all of what you say, which provided for 20 million euros and then changed, which I do not know what you are saying. It's crazy what we hear. Where is it, Mr Manatis, signed by Spirtzi, the terms of the 2015 competition and the other terms of 2016? Bring them here to testify, so I can find out, and see how another contract came into the end. Get them to see them. I would like to say something about Mr Bourrara and what he said. I agree and consider them perfectly reasonable. Of course, there should be a return to local society. We put the rewards in the Kastelli competition and we will impose them on other concessions we found. These are therefore provided for in the competitive process that will take place shortly after the Triasiou Transit Centre, which has also been invested by the European Commission and the Greek State, and not by this investment, which is already assured and which we had from one to zero participants. As you are right about the movement of heavy goods vehicles. We have banned it from the urban web and the rest of the works have been launched. For Mr Georgiadis, I believe that I have responded sufficiently, despite heavy designations. I think he's misinformed. This is another issue that has been raised and I will say it at the end. I would like to say something about Mr Karamanlis. There was no institutional paralysis by the public procurement law. That is why the New Democracy voted for him. Obviously, we made it when we received it in full dissolution. It says for the full absence of new works and new competitions. We're really going crazy. He spoke about launching project costs and it is the decision taken by the European Court of Auditors. Did I hear all right? Let Mr Karamanlis read it. It concerns the period 2010-2014. For God's sake! It concerns the period of the country's governance by New Democracy, from the change in the conditions of motorway concessions. Does he blame us for that? Also, he mentioned something about ruffles. What ruffles is he talking about? About two hundred H.N.A.A.A.'s from a competition on a regular basis. H.D.A. was humiliating her. He's talking about the S.H.I.E.L.D., the ones who had fired them, and we brought them back? He's talking about the people they hired with ruffles. Understand what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u249	If they were hired with ruffles, why did you get them back?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u250	Because they had contracts, my dear, and they fired them. We respect the worker, even if he had been placed with ruffles from old-fashionedism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u251	I disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u252	We've heard terrible things that we've been doing donating to the concessionaire since the second quarter in the first. Mr Karamanlis spoke about overhauling the conditions of construction, and we were told that Mr Maniotis was correctly denounced. Let's take a look at this. I will submit a table showing the three competitive procedures from 2006 to 2009. We're talking about the first lies that are heard in here that we've changed the terms and everything else. The competition came out horrific. The public participated with 15%, and now participated with not one euro. The concession period was thirty years. The building surfaces were thirty-five thousand square meters. How would they be? The tender notice said fifty thousand in the period T1, one hundred twenty - eight thousand in the period T2 and another fifty - seven thousand optionally. What does the competition we are bringing for ratification now in 2015 say? It says zero Greek public participation, forward price 10 million euros. How much was in the 2006 competition by 2009? It was a zero euro. How much was in the 2010-2011 competition? It was a zero euro. He was giving the Greek State, he didn't take it, as it will be when the contract was ratified now. Of course, building surfaces are forty thousand square meters, where there are mandatory hundreds of twenty thousand squares in the period T1 and so many, hundred twenty thousand in the period T2. We motivate the other 50% of T2 projects. Do you see that bad? You see evil, that is, the concessionaire will come and make a larger part of the infrastructure. The buildings guarantee the Greek public. And the buildings will stay. It's infrastructure. It's not like the competition that had been made by New Democracy that entered the Greek State with 15% of the entire investment. I'm coming to give one - one of the answers. They talked about an unfavourable conversion of the terms from the original notice. There's no such thing as that. All those who say that twenty million has changed to ten million are provoking a tender or a tender. But what's there? And I will submit the relevant information, as given by the 'GIAOSE'. There are economic approaches and studies showing that if a tender were made at a minimum price of 20 million at the beginning, we would take at a minimum annual rate of EUR 50 000, that is, 0.5%. And if we took 10 million forwards, as chosen, then we would take a minimum of 350,000 euros each year, i.e. 2.5% of the turnover. This was when it was zero in the two contests that had been made before. I'll testify the models. This time it was not a zero euro for the forward price. I would also like to say that we were accused of having a letter from the contractor's competitive procedure and his requests for HIS VIA, K1 and K2. None of this was adopted, except for the supreme law that existed. That is why I will submit to you the committee's report, the contractor's letter and the three responsible statements. The third talks about favourable conditions for the concessionaire, fixed ENPI, etc. None of the desires were met. What can we do? The Court of Auditors gave final approval in January 2018. The management of GIAOSE and the contractor waited until April 2018 to send the contract under the law, because we would not be able to make any progress on what I read to you before the European Commission sent us and we would be returning two hundred and thirty-five million. I'll file ETVA's letter. I will table the draft sent to the Court of Auditors, all the changes which have been made to the Court of Auditors' mind, which have told us that it has taken action and that the 'GIAOSE' has hidden all this and the adoption of the new draft. Fourthly, it says that the favourable conditions for the concessionaire do not change in relation to the list of sources, capital uses, etc. No change in the amount of the nominal offer shall be made in any case. And the public, I say again, doesn't make 1 euro. Fifthly, the retrospective change in the conditions of the tendering procedure and in particular the conditions of construction. We've answered it sufficiently. I imagine in the first competitive process, and in the second and third were the same square meters. There was a problem. This problem has arisen from consultation with the level of buildings. But let's see what Mr. Kyritsakis said. And you know the relationship I have with Mr. Kyritsakis over the years, the war that has existed, because you blame me for the war of the independent authorities. "In relation to the question of whether the members had made progress in drawing up a draft contract providing unfair advantages to the contractor, such as those which are not concluded by the tendering procedure, than we have seen that the documents sent to us have been extensively dealt with by the Court of Auditors, which considered that such an unfair advantage is not provided to the contractor and therefore no damage to the public is caused." At another point it states: ‘The main conditions of the tender have not been met. The Court of Auditors shall be solely responsible. Check all the procedure that found it legal." On page 43, the Court of Auditors states: "The Court of Auditors has legalised the amendments to the Convention on the grounds that they aim to speed up the various procedures for carrying out the project by abbreviation, etc.", which you say abbreviation of the procedures. It's obvious. It's okay to pluck. Sixth point: The rights to build and operate solid waste-making and solid waste-manufacturing installations. That's what was in the proclamation. It is the right to fully exploit the project in accordance with Article 2(2) of the notice, which includes the right to commercial exploitation of all authorised uses. You can read it. The seventh point is the guarantee letter of a binding investment, if it is allowed to be multi-level. Obviously it's in the public interest. So we have a good execution not only for the concessionaire, but also for all the others who participate and are also provided everywhere on the motorways and everywhere. The eighth point you won us is the transfer of the guarantee from GIAOSE to the State and that it did not exist in the original contract and the binding contracts. These exist in all concession contracts and were self-selling in the 2009 tenders and is not an advantage for the concessionaire. Finally, what you are telling us is also contained in all concessions such as the motorways that we found in the contracts ready. So it shows what is included in these conventions. The ninth point is the direct contract between the Greek State and the creditors of the consortium. This is done after the contract, so it has not yet been signed. And the tenth point is for "GENERAL" and when it was posted. The competition came out at the "DENMARK" on 9-6-2016. All the company's payment authorisations are posted, each euro spent. As far as we can see, there is the letter "GAIAOSE" from 22 November. It's document 17 I'm tabling. I will also give you the other documents on the Court of Auditors, which I did not have here. I will submit to you various documents, as well as the communication from the European Commission, which has the 10 million and all the rest. I will also present you with the minutes and when it has been issued. He therefore requested explanations from the board of directors of GIAOSE, Mr. Schiza, who sent me the answer. GIAOSE is a non-public company. Therefore, by changing the law, there was a consultation with EFSA. It is not enough that we make and upload all the decisions - we did this, there was not before in KIMIDIS and everything else - we are also being observed. And they were approved and posted, from what the CEO told me, all the minutes on two dates. I'll also give you the CEO's letter. But, Mr Manatis, Mr. Theocharopoulos has left - and gentlemen of the New Democracy, Mr. Schhiza, the CEO of GIAOSE, you do not remember him? You're the ones who blame us for the partyisation of the various public bodies, you put him in Mr. Shiza. Your own governments have been placed. You put him on and we kept him. So much missed you guys that are excellent? That's all you missed, Mr. Maniot.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u253	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u254	But you'll drive us crazy. You're really going to drive us crazy. I would therefore challenge you to submit all the terms of the contract which are not contained in the contract, so that we too can see that notice with the other points in order to be convinced. Mr. Maniatis, I don't know if it's the best tactic to talk about scandalous contracts and scandals right now. And I'd like us to be transferred to the past for a while. You passed through the Transport Department as Secretary-General. After Secretary-General, you went - if I remember correctly - President of the OSCE. Then you were elected MP. Then you became Undersecretary to the government of Papandreou and then Minister to the Government of Samaras. Half of your partners are already in New Democracy. So, let me remind you - it is a sweet nostalgia - that when you were a general secretary and supported people - and frankly it grieves us and the entire Greek people for the ministers they served, I am not talking about you, I am not talking about others - then you have told us about breakers in 2000. Don't you remember that at all?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u255	You'll get answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u256	I'll take whatever you want. So my first post, Mr Maniatis, to remind you, is the one I accepted from Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras' proposal. Although I had been made by a number of PASOK ministers and officials, I had not even been a member of the board of directors. I hadn't accepted and asked your comrades now that you've stayed there. So, it's probably self-criticistic - so I see it - about the drops and the chairs historically what you said and we're not touched by your mud. But, at some point, it is good to say that those who are culminating in such a decision, if you like, are critically ill-advanced - I hope, finally, that I say it more elegantly - will be a matter of opposition tactics or other communication issues relating to other developments in Parliament's other chambers. I say this because I want to submit the letter from the operators of the Piraeus Chamber of Commerce and Industry, who is afraid - people say that it is possible - that a large company wants the total area of the Triasian and that was what I was saying to the committees. To be confirmed, I will present you with an excerpt from the business plan of the concessionaire of the port of Piraeus, which is not approved, which asks that the entire business plan and not the extract, to see what else they ask, is not in the port contract the mandatory one. So we will all understand that some do not want national planning, they do not want European planning, they are in complete contrast with the public interest, they are in complete contrast with all that we have agreed with the European Commission, but also with the National Strategic Planning for the combined transport of the country. I will also submit reports from June, before the Court of Auditors has even adopted them. They are exactly the same as Mr Maniatis says, "Thriasios: How the terms of the competition changed with the signature Spirtzi". Totally random! And they've done what the law lays down for these publications. It is also known that in the consultation, the concessionaire of the port of Piraeus called for the cancellation of the tender with a request for a tender for the freight centre and for the management of the transit centre, what we said follows. In other words, it basically asked that the total freight centre in Triasio should not become a freight centre, that it should give EUR 235 million back to the European Commission, to satisfy some of the ambitions or objectives of freight that they have to make in the port. These are all inclusive investments. We will not support them. Let's report to us about scandals as long as you want. Mr Maniatis, if it is the opposition tactic that you and the misinformation you have made to Mr Georgiadis, it is understandable. It's not acceptable, but it's understandable. If it's not, it's a scandalous attitude, because you're not one of the politicians who don't know. And the same and worse you said about the tower of Patras, mocking the world. You said so with great publicity and so forth. We took them to the prosecutor's office. The treasure's carbon! Archived. I am very pleased to go along with these and the next contract that will come and say that it is a scandal for the airport in Kastelli and the next for the E-65 - now, in one and a half months, these are coming - and for the BOAK, which Mr Augorakis has come and is also concerned about the "List 4" of the metro and the freight centre at the hub of Thessaloniki and for the rail links and all the projects we are doing, to serve the national strategic plan and the vision of the Prime Minister and our vision for another country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u257	Minister, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u258	I shall conclude, Mr President, you are right. I will table the proposals and reservations of the Piraeus Chamber of Commerce and Industry as well. I'll wish you a good month again. We move forward to implement our vision, the Prime Minister's national strategic plan for fair growth, for modern social fair Greece. We won't download the pencils, as you wish. We have nothing to fear. That is why we also call on you in the context of the revisions of the Constitution to vote on the change in the law on the liability of ministers that you have introduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr. Minister. This is where we can move on to the seconds of the rapporteurs and special speakers. Mr. Spartin, shall we start with you? Is there any other objection or differentiation? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u260	Mr President - I am sorry - I want to put forward something else that is crucial.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u261	What do you want to testify for, Minister? Legislative improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u262	No, I want to testify something about the Minutes, about the readers. I'm so sorry about this point of order... I would like to submit a letter from the then Minister for Transport on 30-4-2009, by Mr Stylianides - I respect him - to the Minister for Economy and Finance, Mr Papathanasios. The first competition is over and they are ready to sign - they never signed - those who won the competition. It wasn't under the terms of the Convention. I will tell you briefly what it asks for: Requests income tax exemption on accrued interest, derogations for studies and constructions, reimbursement of credit balances from tax rebates, favourable derogations for taxable contractors and subcontractors - who have complained to us - accumulated losses of the concessionaire to be transferred to netting with taxable profits of subsequent years, loan contracts and interest to be exempted from paper fee - up to that! - after the competition, without being on the terms of the contract notice. However, we have not even denounced these then that the changes are scandalous. We didn't do it. In other words, GIAOSE did not do so. That is why the Court of Auditors has approved it. I put it in the Minutes and take it so we don't forget. It is good to remember the correspondence between the ministers in the previous competitions, for the competitions that were not fruitful. [[At this point, Minister Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u263	Mr Spartinos, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor. Set time at five minutes with a tolerance. As far as I can see, there is no disagreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that I was very pleased to hear my dear colleague, Mr Kefaliannis, trying to correct me, because I did not understand what the leader of his party said a few days ago, namely that he did not allow investors to come to Greece to invest. He said that Mr. Mitsotakis said: Come and invest in Greece because we will soon be the government. I let anyone who has heard Mr. Kefaliannis' words tell us whether I am right or Mr. Kefaliannis. Moreover, it is well known that many times both Mr Mitsotakis and other senior members of his party, when discussing with foreigners or political actors or investors, present economic data and economic considerations about evolution in Greece, which are in complete contrast with economic considerations and data provided by the institutions, the Commission, international analysts - not the government - while insisting on that line that they had previously drawn up - I do not know whether Mr Mitsotakis had said it or had not said it in this way, as he uses more diplomatic expressions - the line of 'Vasta, Soible!', 'Grown, hard!' They are still in this unscrupulous direction today, in my view. I think that from the debate, I have also said it in my protology, but also then, according to the figures made by the ministers and by my colleague Mr Karastasis, and from an article that we have seen recently and before, it is obvious that some did not want this competition to take place. And it's obvious that they didn't want it to happen, because they had learned in contests with which they took the work of a sharp time and moved on all according to their interests. There are those who did not want this competition to be completed and there are also, as Mr Spirtz just said, who do not want a national planning for transport and combined transport, which is part of a European and international planning. I would like to believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not the reason why the differences in styles, intensity and high or low tone between colleagues in counterpopulation were not due to this. I really want to believe that this was simply about the tampering of everyone, I would say, and how he perceives the opposition criticism that he has to exercise in the government. And because they were put at high tones by Mr Maniatis, particularly Mr Adoni Georgiadis, the Vice-President of the New Democracy, who was probably actually taken over by Mr Maniatis, because he proved that he had not read himself - not even a quick look at the convention, some capitalist and shocking questions, to recall that this Convention has also been passed by the Court of Auditors and by the Scientific Committee of Parliament. Above all, I should like to say that after 2014, when we came as a government and consulted the European Commission, and then those who participated in the tender were aware of the changes that had arisen from this whole consultation process. So all the things that have been heard that things have been done in secret, that others were the standards at first and others were observed at the end, I think they are not standing. They've been proven, and if anyone wants to repeat them, only bad faith could be considered. Mr. Adonis Georgiadis gave me the impression that he had not read the contract at all. The Minister then gave it to him to have to deal with and read when he has nothing else to do with it. On the contrary, I believe that Mr Maniotis has read the contract out of hand, has read it too many times. With what goal, though? Trying to find some points that are, in his view, easily destructive to come denounce us for scandals with ten, with twenty points. I don't know if he's recently found any other points and he'll talk about them when he talks next. All of this was answered by the Minister and the State Secretary at both committees meetings, but beforehand in the Chamber. I think that from there, if Mr. Maniotis insists, we have nothing but to remember the Apostle Paul saying, "After first and second admonition, he shook the dust off your sandals and go find and speak with someone else." I would like to talk about the attitude of the Vice-President of the New Democracy. He came here, I repeat, without having read the contract, he heard two - three things and actually what he came to tell us? He came to threaten us to take us to committees of inquiry, pre-interviews, special courts, etc. Without wanting to do so, he came out of it and made himself reference to the Committee on Health, CEDEFOP, the "Dynan" etc. It is known that in a few days' time the finding of this committee comes out, and Mr. Georgiadis does not feel very convenient. He came here beforehand to threaten us to notice what we're going to get in this finding. I have also seen an irritation when the Minister for Health, Mr Xanthos, brought an excellent amendment in my view which helps both to improve the lives of refugees and migrants and to the employment of young scientists to prevent Brain Drain. I have seen an irritation from a number of other New Democracy colleagues, because it seems that when they hear a debate about the health sector and CEDEFOP, they feel that they have a duty to raise tons and say things that have no basis to deal with in order to deal with situations that are difficult for them. I'm finishing up with a report. I agree with the amendments tabled, as well as with the attempt made by the committee dealing with permits for tourist public estates, goat and beaches. Let us then see it and indeed participate in the representative of the Chamber of Technical Chambers. On this occasion, I beg your pardon, but I also want to make an exception outside the bill, and that is what I want to finish. I believe that what the Undersecretary, Mrs Papanatsiou, has to come to us quickly, namely the draft law on the regulation of matters relating to public and public-private areas within giauls and beaches, must come. The provisions currently in force have afflicted too many municipalities and a recent example I have in the Municipality of Patras. The Land Office, by stepping on what is currently in force, blames and starts legal proceedings against the mayor because it has cleared a public space that has so far not been clean and has to be cleaned for public health purposes, if you like. He has been instructed to take down some coastal roads, which have been there since I was a baby and we were going to take a bath from Rio to Santa Claus and Monodendri, because he says it's based on a law. I do not doubt that these civil servants may typically be right, but I think that the co-legislative ministries should soon bring about the revision of this legislative framework in order to prevent such absurd situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr. Spartan. Mr Bukkokouros has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, I listen with great interest to my fellow Members of the majority and to the ministers constantly respect that they have become the investors' party, that they are improving the business environment, that they are carrying out major infrastructure projects, that Greece has become an investment paradise and that all investments are moving to the country over SYRIZA. I'm thinking if I live in Greece or in another country. What business and investment environment are you telling us, ladies and gentlemen? The World Bank report for 2019 was only published yesterday. Do you know about the business environment where Greece ranks? It ranks in exactly the same order as Kyrgyzstan and Zuziland and is just over Mongolia. Is it possible with such an entrepreneurial environment to claim that you attract investment? What is your past on this matter? What did you do when the 'COSCO' came to Greece, the largest investment? For you and others who found a roof in SYRIZA from other adjacent parties were running in the port of Piraeus to exclude it! And it is the 'COSCO' that is giving birth today to the freight centre, with whatever problems it is going to make! There are many of your executives and other political areas, which are said "The state-run government of Kostas Karamanlis who made the greatest privatisations in modern history", "COSCO", "OLYMPIAKI AEROPORIA" for which the Greek people paid 1,000 euros per day, OTE, natural gas networks. They also talk about the Samara Government, then with the multinational companies that built the port of Piraeus, with the completion of the investment of 'COSCO', with the 6.5 million drachmas financing of investment projects in Greece from Chinese capital. What do you have to show today, and you are going out early in the morning that investment is coming and the economy is improving? We have 7.6% recession. The government that took over in June 2012 took over the economy to run at a material rate of 7.6% and handed it over, according to ELSTAT's revised figures - not the New Democracy - with 1% growth. Do you know when these ELSTAT elements were revised? They were revised in 2018. This course was for two and a half years. And now you four years rather than two months of anchoring to catch growth rates of 1.8% and you haven't caught them and said that you are improving the economy and bringing investments! Is there a more bleak witness than the growth rates for the image of an economy? Are we ever going to speak honestly in this place? Will you coordinate even at the end of your government life? The real economy of angomaha is kneeling. Do you think that with two-three units of unemployment, with flexible forms of work, with rotating work, with reduced working hours, you dropped unemployment by two-three units and made an economy? The generation of 360 euros you created, as in the post-war times there was the generation of "three and sixty". But then we had also come out of a catastrophic war and a brotherly civil war. To land a little bit and be more modest. And don't say that in the past forty years, nothing happened. See a picture of your home, your neighborhood forty - forty - five years ago and see it now, to see exactly what happened in this country, with any mistakes, omissions, crimes many times. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We will now come to the contract. Law 4530 for taxis was voted after the end of the tender and after the concessionaire was awarded, which means that the tender was finalised. What do we say? That the government's leadership comes with a legislative initiative and changes the conditions of construction from 0.4 to 1.65. What that means is not exactly what we are going to say, the relevant bodies have said. And I'll tell you what they said. However, we say that even if this change concerns all the land of GAIAOSE, and it can be in the positive direction of attracting investment, it also concerns a tender that had been completed. Does this not constitute a change in the terms of the tender? What more self-proof than that? Whether we are going to take you, because you are being created and impressed on committees of inquiry and so on, it is another matter of order. However, no one can rule out the possibility that an interested party, a competitor, will resort, because there are not only the procedures, the House, ladies and gentlemen, there are distinct powers in that country, there are other procedures and judicial procedures. So if we have appeals there in the near future from anyone who considers that his interests are being affected, in the way that this competition will ultimately be compatible, you may be faced with problems. And we're pointing it out to you. Is that bad? I will not go into the question of funding and public guarantee. Our parliamentary representative, Mr Kefaliannis, very well analysed them. These are, therefore, the most important issues that make New Democracy look back at an investment bill, because lessons from the current government, even from the years of the crisis, but also earlier on on the question of investment, and from no other political power the New Democracy accepts. That's to be clear. And yes, do not consider it impossible that the New Democracy is investment-friendly and our President, as Chief of Officerial Response, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, calls on investors to invest in Greece and does not frighten them by saying that they will lose their money, as the current Prime Minister did when he was in charge of Anti-Population. Do not consider this impossibility and think that you can legislate as you wish. One more, the other one. Mr President, I will conclude. The majority colleague spoke nine minutes and thirty seconds. I'll be out in a minute, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u267	I didn't interrupt you, I made sense to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u268	Yeah, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u269	But because you are causing me, I am interrupting you now and I tell you that even the time you are entitled not only to you, but also to all the rapporteurs - speakers of seven and a half minutes, you have already covered it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u270	Okay, Mr. President, understandable. I say, therefore, that you do not consider the New Democracy's friendliness and commitment to investment impossible and you believe that you will legislate as you wish. It is another issue, another issue. I, too, believe that the President of the Chamber of Technical Chambers, Mr Stasinos, Minister, who has been invited to the Committees, said this: Changes in the terms of construction constitute a change in the value of the property. New Democracy didn't say that. In any case, the authority of the Chamber of Technical Chambers did not have to question it either Mr Spirtz or Mr Flabouraris or the rapporteur of the majority. So don't change reality and try to adjust it to your beliefs. For these issues, more serious and more fertile dialogue is needed to be effective in the benefit of the Greeks, because we are all represented here, without exceptions: the entire Greeks and the public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u271	Mr Maniotis, special speaker of the Democratic Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u272	Ladies and gentlemen, in politics you are often in front of a dilemma when you are politically confronted with a political opponent. And you're wondering if you're happy to exchange strong arguments with the political opponent or if you're sad to have him in front of you. I am sorry to say that Mr Spirtzis belongs to the accusation of sad people, those who are throwing and apostate, are forced to become extremes in order to constantly prove their faith in their new boss. I am not happy to go along with Mr Spirtzi. Yesterday, you know, I was in Patras. We had a big speech at about a hundred and fifty students at the PAP of the Polytechnic of Patras. And there my friends and companions of Patras remembered Mr. Spirtzi, in December 2014, to visit Patras as PASOK and try to talk to them at the same time as he was negotiating with Mr. Tsipras, so that in one month he would become his Minister. I am not at all happy to go along with Mr Spirtzi at all. Much more so that as a professor of the University of Thessaloniki I have supported many former students, who were asked by Mr. Spirtzis to enter his ballot in order to elect a Chairman of the Technical Chamber of Thessaloniki, and I am convinced that it is worthwhile to make Mr. Spirtzi's president. So let us not turn so far, because I do not want to make such a political confrontation. I want to make a political controversy with arguments and a clear one. Mr Xydakis - and I will go right through the agreement we are discussing - has rightly said, as a Parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, that he should have the face of the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, because he is an institutional person, be treated with the necessary respect for the Prime Ministers who are being treated or must be treated. Only Mr. Xydakis should remind Mr. Tsipras that Mr. Tsipras called George Papandreou, Prime Minister at the time of Greece, Pinochet. The lessons of good political conduct and conduct are therefore not in PASOK or in the Change Movement. I am pleased, ladies and gentlemen, that you have withdrawn the amendment that you have taken from the Technical Chamber by the Committee on the tourist properties of Aegialos and the beaches. Even so, our word caught a place and we're really glad that the Chamber of Technical Chamber will participate and you're not afraid of it or you can't avoid it. Now, I will present for the Minutes the first symptoms of the irrationality of the contract that we are discussing. It is the first appeal announced by a club called "Kalliga", representing all property owners and landowners in the wider region of Triasios, who are doing the same job as the one that is going to do the particular shopping centre. And those people who appealed to the Council of State and the European Union Competition Committee say something simple: "Since these conditions, which you are giving in the contract you enter the House, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, do not apply to the rest of us, then these are charismatic and colonial terms which we will insult the institutions of Greek justice and the European Union." So what we have been warning you has started to avoid. I will also present for the minutes the communication from the President of the Central Union of Chambers representing all chambers of the State which, after Law 4530/2018, calls for what applies to the Triasius Convention also to the rest of Greece and not only to this Convention. And I imagine you'll tell me that Mr. Michalos is an instrument of PASOK or the Change Movement. So Mr. Michalos tells you that what you're doing is charismatic and asks for the same behavior in Law 4530/2018 and for all other facilities and units. Please for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now because Minister Spirtzis has the comfort of trying to play with mere intelligence, I will not repeat the arguments I have put forward in both committee and plenary during my protagonists. I think it is unnecessary for me to prove the scandalousness of the contract. I will, however, note one thing, because it is not Mr Spirtz and the tabbie is one, there is or is there not a decision by the GAIAOSE Management Board, one that has not been reversed, which provides for a single contribution of EUR 20 million and a 20 million guarantee letter? How does a contract come, despite the decision of the top board of the entity owner and manager and responsible for the area? This is the overall problem that has arisen. And of course, in order to hide this decision, because it did not contribute, you kept it in the drawer a year and a half and you didn't bring it up to the "DOWN". Anyone who's interested in looking, let's get to "GENERAL" to see how many decisions GAIAOSE has made since June 2016. Dozens and hundreds. There was only one decision on the terms of the Trieste competition. Everything else is superfluous. As we also need to respond to the fact that in 2009 15% of the shares received were given free of charge. Mr. Spirtz is used to trying to avoid his terrifying political responsibilities, to involve everything and, above all, to tell gross lies. And the greatest lie is that he told the National Parliament that there was not a single decision by GAIAOSE in the 'DIAGY' because he could not post one, and there are dozens. And it requires a lot of political courage to come to plenary and try to defend his critics and self-proof lies. I will not talk about additional constructions either. Of the two hundred and thirty-five thousand, dear majority colleague and SYRIZA rapporteur, it is the square measures that exist in the contract and on the basis of the terms the contractor can build over nine hundred thousand, it is a super-frequency. And do you feel comfortable agreeing to this change in the terms of the contract that was not in existence anywhere and then the Minister decided to do so with the CEO or any other body of GAIAOSE?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u273	Mr. Maniatou, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u274	You're right, Mr. President. And apparently guilt is obvious. Mr Spirtzis - I do not know him the chief symbol of GAIAOSE, nor do I care to meet him - he obviously feels guilty to be associated with such people as Mr Kotsakas, Mr Kourublis, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou. They are all the people who belonged to PASOK and decided to take their own path. If Mr Schhizas does not - and I do not know - he is four years Minister, he could replace him. Is it an excuse that once this man was in DRMAR or I don't know where else he was? Is that an excuse for Mr. Spirtzi? Does it show or does it not show just awkwardness, but lack of arguments? I shall end, ladies and gentlemen, hoping that even at the last minute there can be a reversal of this scandal that we have before us. I'm afraid the government and Mr. Spirtz has made his decisions. And, of course, the weather is near and there will be the corresponding accountability of the respective institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u275	The reason for this is the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u276	The Minister spoke and said a lot of great work. Projects to eat chickens, as Mr Flamouraris said. This is a great business plan, except for few of them - the consortia and the business groups - which will make the huge profits. But their hierarchy is the needs of capital and not the needs of the working class and the popular strata. Children's stations won't be made again, kids will stay out. The countermeasures that were to be taken go to Kavala, and let pre-school education, public and free infrastructure be compulsory, but they do not exist. Again there will be schools in trouble with ceilings that threaten to fall and muddy walls, such as the 3rd High School of Chios that I visited ten days ago and the teachers were in agony and indignation and right. You continue to fight, government and opposition, the parties that had governments before. And in this argument bill, which you actually agree with. Why? Because you're in favor of businessmen. The fight, the Mitsotakis statements, whether he brings in or prosecutes businessmen. But, anyway, you have the same strategy in favour of the interests and needs of business groups. In fact, that is what you mean when you say public interest and how you will serve the public interest. Your fight is therefore disorientative. Just support or support, as you say, from different business groups. And sometimes traditional business groups that supported the New Democracy Party now support SYRIZA make the job look better. However, I would like to clarify a few things. In Article 3 of the bill, we are voting for the first paragraph, because it concerns workers. As a whole, however, in Article 3, we are expressing ourselves with 'the present'. We also say'represent' to the first amendment, the ministerial amendment concerning the OSE. It does not change who the manager will be, but the content has substance, but it does not ensure the overthrow of privatisation. As far as the amendment brought by the Ministry of Health for CEDEFOP is concerned, we are voting for it, so that workers can continue to work for even a few months, but also for the health care of refugees and migrants not to get worse. But let me say that these are patches. We are also voting for the amendment from the Ministry of Education. I will not say any more, because I want to say much more about the Greek amendment. You are talking about legislative alignment of legislation, when it comes to new drastic concessions to the LAMDA DEVELOPMENT, with a view to facilitating and speeding up the investment through an environmental coup. That's what you're doing. The amendment, of course, does not come at random. The discussion is under way - the negotiation between the Government, the LAMDA DEVELOPMENT and the casino licensee, the level of rent and the extent to which the casino will be built. What does the amendment regulate? It regulates authorisation not at building level, but at building block level. It says that this is necessary because of the new building legislation. Prove it. It's not the case at all. Authorisation at building units means greater freedom for the consortium to change the particular buildings that make up the livestock unit in turn. This is an unprecedented provision, in advance of any type of change needed by the construction group. It also regulates the preparation of a single environmental impact study for the whole project, with the Minister concerned maintaining the right - by ministerial decision - to define and include the elements to be included in the environmental impact study file, while the deadlines for its adoption are further shrinking. And then you say you're an ecological party. The regulation is therefore a gift from the Government to the consortium, since the company will receive the approved environmental conditions in no time. So when legislation is in the way of legislation, it is bad for legislation! Eventually, almost all the conditions for approval will proceed from the Ministry. We are voting against it and consider it provocative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u277	Thank you to Mrs Manolakou, with which the seconds of the rapporteurs and the special speakers have been completed. Mr. Mavragany, do you think it would be necessary for the Minister to intervene in something?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u278	I don't think so, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u279	Mr President, a clarification. Will Amendment No 1792 be put to the vote? Hasn't he retired?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u280	No, he didn't retire.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u281	That's what the Minister told us. It's for the participation of the TEI.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u282	He said he'd bring her to a next bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u283	So we're going to vote for it now, and we're going to vote for it in the next one!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u284	Mrs Papanatsiou has said, if I am not mistaken, because I was not presiding, or whatever the Minister made a commitment, that she would bring to a next bill and that arrangement for which you, Mr Amyras, asked the Minister. The amendment is subject to this draft legislation and will be voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u285	Mr President, may I ask the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u286	You have the floor, Mr. Maniatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u287	Minister, on this amendment to the TEI, which you told us you would withdraw it, you are the Minister - it is your bill - which accepts or does not accept the signatures of one or a hundred ministers. We understood that, because you are the judge, you are, you will not accept it and sometime in a next bill it will come amended with the TEI in. That is what my colleague and other colleagues have at least seen. What exactly is going on? You're accepting her?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u288	Of course we're making it acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u289	Whether he's making it acceptable is his right. A hundred ministers will have signed if the Minister who suggests the bill does not make it acceptable is not accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u290	Mr. Maniatou, you're obviously done. Minister, please repeat. I don't know if you heard me before. Explain a little, so no misunderstandings are created.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u291	I heard very well. I said I would contact the Minister of Finance, Mr Chakaloto, so that there would be a legislative improvement. It was not possible to collect seven signatures of Ministers and Mrs Papanatsiou pledged that she would be amended in the bill that would bring about the Aegean Sea and the beach. In order for the committee to function, however, because there were eight members in the committee in the law, and that is why the Ministry of Finance removed one member - badly, perhaps, all right, it will be corrected as promised - but the committee must function and it cannot function with eight members. So the amendment is accepted with the commitment of the Ministry of Finance that it will complete the bill it will bring.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u292	Good. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is therefore adjourned: "Preparation of the concession agreement between the Greek State and the company GIAOSE SA. ANTI-DUMPING CONTRIBUTION MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT, by the company "TRADE INDUSTRIAL REGIONS CONTRIBUTION" and by the company "GOLLOWER CARGO INTERNATIONAL CONTROL AND LOGISTICS ANIMAL CONTRIBUTION", for the "TRADE DEVELOPMENT OF TRANSPORT CENTRE" and other provisions. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. Let us point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, three articles, five amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. I would like to ask the rapporteurs and the speakers - everyone is addressing this - that you do not leave after the vote is over because you need to sign in the Minutes. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u293	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u294	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u295	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Furthermore, the concession contract between the Greek State and the company GAIAOSE S.A. ANTI-DUMPING CONTRIBUTION MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT, by the company "COMMERCIAL CONTRIBUTION CENTRE", by the company "INVESTING INDUSTRIAL REGIONS CONTRIBUTIONS" and by the company "GOLLOWER CARGO CONTROL CONTROL AND LOGISTICS ANonymous CONTRIBUTION", for the "TRADE DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRY" and other provisions, was accepted by a majority, in principle, of articles and all, and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u296	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u297	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-01-S1-commons.u298	With the consent of this House at 17.07 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, November 2, 2018 at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
