ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We will start the debate with the sixth Question No 1504/16-4-2018 in the first cycle of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, Mr Marios Georgiadis, on the subject: "Confidence of Late Accounts for Late Retired Persons and Retired Persons to Tax in up to a hundred and twenty instalments". The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Catherine Papanatziou, will answer. Mr. Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes for your first speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-23-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister, who came to answer this only question, for he could simply avoid it and come to another moment that he would have had to answer to more colleagues. On the occasion, of course, since it is a unique question, we could take a little advantage of your tolerance over the time of the debate in general, because it is an issue which you will see, Mr President, concerns a lot of people. Madam Minister, we are all aware that your government's overtaxation policy over the last few years, but also, in general, the reduction in wages and pensions over time - which is also commemorative, of course, obligations - has the effect of increasing dues, particularly to tax. It is expected at the moment that the debts to the public are constantly accumulated, and I would remind you that they were at EUR 32 billion before the Memorandum of Understanding, and at the moment they have been launched at EUR 102 billion with 31 January 2018. Since you received on 1 December 2014 the sum of EUR 74 billion on your own responsibility because of your own policy, your piece amounts to around EUR 28 billion. Unfortunately, beyond the middle-class, which many government officials - and I am not talking about personally you, or your Ministry - have really targeted it, we have the effect of sighing too many social groups. They have arrears of four million people in the tax office. We have a worrying feature: the two millions of citizens owe up to EUR 500, and there are some ninety thousand taxpayers, who are also faced with forced wages and bank accounts, even for a few dozen euros. If we calculate the previous ones, but also that 2.9 million are employed and retired people who are also unable to pay back their EUR 2.5 billion obligations, your Ministry should have been alerted to and moved in a completely opposite direction to what you have been used to in recent years, which is the pressure on these citizens, that is to say, to move towards the search for relief methods. In fact, you could also use your last communication game - election motto, we could say - the so-called countermeasures and bring a countermeasure really, which would be a new regulation and would be directed exclusively at natural persons, employees and pensioners who would have public debts. We could set it at EUR 20,000. However, this is something for which a debate can be held. At the same time, it could reduce and curtail any increments. It would have had a minimum and a maximum dose amount and a maximum dose amount would not exceed one hundred and twenty, taking into account always some income criteria, net monthly family income, housing and so on. After that, Minister, I would like to ask you whether it is in the government's intention to establish a regulation on the debts of employees and pensioners and on what specific conditions. If not, I would like to know why you refuse to listen to society, because every day people fear that they will lose their home, only by owed EUR 500 to the public. Why not adopt similar measures that, beyond the general relief of these citizens, will actually shrink the number of debtors and bring some revenue to the public? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-23-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-23-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to begin by pointing out that all the things mentioned in your question are issues, opinions and proposals, which I myself am not against, nor our ministry nor, of course, our Government. Our primary objective and criterion for government policy has been and is the maximum relief for the citizens affected by the budgetary situation, which has been affecting our country for many consecutive years, of course within the strict budgetary frameworks that have been laid down to us in practical terms. Here I would like to mention nr.4321/15, which is a demonstration and aims precisely at the accumulated debts of Greek citizens and aims, on the one hand, to make them as easier as possible and, on the other, to strengthen the collection. You know very well that this law has given the opportunity to regulate public debts in a hundred instalments, while exempting additional taxes, increments, with extremely positive results at social and budgetary level. It was one of the first laws we made as SYRIZA - ANEL government. In the same context, with a view to further alleviating the healthier operations in the country, we have moved on to the regulation of the extra-judicial mechanism, which is to enable us to make good their dues to all their creditors, including the public and insurance funds, up to a hundred and twenty instalments. Following this initial arrangement, we have now introduced the possibility of bilateral agreements between debtors and public, tax and insurance funds, which relate to the regulation of corporate debts, with debts of up to EUR 20,000 and free trade professionals of up to EUR 50,000, when the level of public debt is over 85%. Our aim is to extend the limit of EUR 50,000 with new ministerial decisions over the next period. In accordance with the established tax provisions, financially impossible debtors may adjust their certified debts in twelve or twenty-four monthly instalments. I'll report here the figures from the Independent Public Income Authority from 31-1-2018. Three hundred eighty-three thousand four hundred ATMs are regulated in accordance with the provisions of Law No.4321/15 in 100 instalments, four hundred twenty-seven thousand sixty-three ATMs have adjusted their debts in twelve instalments with fixed adjustments, while fifty thousand seventy-seven ATMs have adjusted their debts by the same provisions up to twenty-four instalments. Let us not forget, too, the possibility already given to the tax administration by the end of last year, in order to provide it with tax information on the collection of money to taxpayers who are consistent with the arrangements to which they have joined. More specifically, the higher the amount paid by the taxpayer through the arrangement, the less the withholding amount made by the tax administration. I submit the relevant documents of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, and I reserve the rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-23-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-23-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I understand that most of them are freelance professionals and not just natural persons. I have mentioned how we can help people to whom pension and wages are being cut. I'm glad you referred to things concerning the Independent Public Income Authority. I shall refer to this as well, and I shall be presenting the report in the Minutes. However, I expected that the question I ask you on the one hand will be embraced - something you do not deny it, because you say that you yourself have made a recommendation on this - but that there would also be a way of dialogue on how to help purely natural persons. For free professionals you rightly said that a relevant law has been made, which can help them through the hundred doses and through the setting. But for people who may owe, for example, EUR 500 and have a salary or pension of EUR 350 and EUR 380, you understand that their wages cannot even guarantee them a living, let alone ensure that they are consistent in any instalments to the public. In fact, I would expect you to embrace all of this and give us your own proposals for specific measures on how we can continue, because all these people are worthy and deserve better treatment and very clear relief. And let's not forget that your election campaigns were 'I don't pay'. Therefore, the sums due are coming to stress that these people want to pay, and that seems and proves to be higher than the percentage they owe to the public in relation to those who do not pay the HPAI because they do not want to pay it. So they want, but they cannot, because they first have to ensure that they have to live, then that they have to secure their roofs and then move on to any public debts, if and if they can do so. Because, unfortunately, good or bad, it is your Government that taxs what moves or is immovable, whoever works or does not have work. If we are confined to the last three years, unfortunately this is going up even further. For example, at the end of 2015, by all the debtors against whom some necessary measures could be taken, SYRIZA took measures against 45% of them, which increased to 51% at the end of 2016, 60% at the end of 2017 and we are on the upward path right now. The past January has emerged in the worst month of all times, and that is why the Independent Public Income Authority, in addition to its constant threats, has made seizures of wages, pensions and real estate, involving more than seventeen and a half thousand taxpayers. Every day, that is, more than seven hundred seizures are made to those who owe the public money more than EUR 500 and thousands are the dramas they have to face, even those who are trying to stay financially alive. These percentages come to be confirmed by the Independent Public Income Authority, which, in addition to the threats, says it will take even more measures on the basis of its Report, which I have to table as well as its strategic plan 2017-2020. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In fact, instead of seeing families relieved, your ministry has reached the point of planning, developing and testing more than nine hundred and seventy-three schools, teachers of all levels of education, the famous "Action D-2-1", on the pretext that you are supposed to contribute to the culture of tax consciousness. I am sorry, Minister, but this really is a great thing for your government - for those who are listening to us - when on one night you wanted to cut fines to a businessman of EUR 38 million. I was expecting you to look at measures instead of channeling the bowling even to students, to children ten and fifteen years old, about how their parents should be truly conscientious about how they will pay. Of course, you will tell me that the European Union is doing so, but the European Union is doing so in programmes where the economy is completely different from the economic policy you are pursuing and we would also expect you to do something similar. We also expected you to listen to the positions of the Central Association that we could find a way to repay late payments, without entering into the process of cutting wages and pensions. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance and I look forward to hearing your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-23-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-23-S1-commons.u8	First of all, I would like to say that those who are at the forefront of the AIA and the government's ambition are the strategic bad payers, and here I think we will all agree that they should be the ones who should pay, are the ones who cannot under any circumstances give them the forgiveness, and we are talking about them and we must shape the tax conscience, because everyone must be responsible for their actions. From there on, what I have to repeat once again is that the main aim of our Government is to protect and relieve our economically weak fellow citizens. We started with the employees and the retired. In the hundred doses of Law4321/2015, pensioners and employees were included. We didn't start with the businessmen. From the employees and pensioners, we're on our way. That included everyone whether they were entrepreneurs, whether they were employees, or retired, etc. From there, we come and bring some other provisions. We are constantly trying and working on the demands that are being made to us and where we can do so, since we are, of course, allowed to do so from the current finances in our country. I would also like to mention here that, from 2015 until today, we have made seventy-six ministerial extensions and suspensions of certain and due debts and related arrangements for these debts in cases of natural disasters. Someone could say that's self-evident. It is self-evident that we can see it today. But it was not self-evident for the governments until now. In this context, we have also moved with the payment of the social dividend to the sensitive categories of citizens with the introduction of HNVO exemptions in areas affected by an earthquake and some other measures that we have taken with smaller or larger interventions. We do not refuse to hear new ideas of innovative, technical solutions to the problem of overdue debts or to adopt similar measures that would help our fellow citizens to be relieved, but also to be able to repay their debts. However, all this must always be done within the current fiscal context and I would like to close here so that we do not panic with the citizens. As regards seizures, auctions, etc., what you mentioned above in relation to seizures does not mean that any confiscation made either in the accounts or over there sometimes in the properties does not mean auctioning. I repeat that the public does not intend for the first people's residence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-23-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and with Rule 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case, on 20-4-2018, a criminal case for Prime Minister Alexio Tsipras and Foreign Minister Nikolao Kotzias. Parliamentarian Pierre of the New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Koukodemos is applied for a absence abroad, in Austria, for personal family reasons from Thursday 17 May 2018 until Tuesday 22 May 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-23-S1-commons.u10	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, the fifth under number 1519-17-2018, a topical question from the first group of Vice-Presidents of the Parliament and MPs II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the debts to IKA/EFKA, will not be discussed due to the lack of competence of the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry responsible is the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. The first question under number 1509/16-4-2018, by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy, Christos Stakos, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Finance of actions from criminal products against the Greek State and the allocation of funds for social purposes", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, abroad. The sixth question, number 1463/2-4-2018, topical question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Take measures in favour of small savers, who lost their money in debt haircut in 2012, will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis abroad. The first under No. 1517-17-2018 topical question of the first cycle of the Chios MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Restoration of problems in the operating rooms of the new wing of the Chios Hospital”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis, on the grounds of the workload. The fifth under No. 1511/16-2018 topical question by PASOK MP Laconia - DIMARMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Double of patients from EKAV to intensive treatment units for private clinics”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Pavlaki, on the grounds of the workload. The second question under number 1510/16-4-2018 of the First Cycle of the New Democracy MP Mr.Kosoias Yoyakas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Project for the abolition of the Department of Business of the EIT and the operation of the Department of Intercultural Communication in Igoumenitsa", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Education, Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou, due to the workload. The third, with number 1498/16-24-2018, top-circuit question by MP II of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "The need for an initiative to strengthen anti-crime policy following the recent multiple phenomena of violent crime in housing and the lifting of the unfair nature of the actions of victims", will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr. Stavros Kontonis. Cause: He is the rapporteur at an information event of the Edessa Bar Association on the subject: ‘Demanding mediation’. The second question under number 1489-12-4-2018, the second question of the Vice-President of the Parliament and the Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "The self-defense after attacking the house", will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr Stavros Kontonis. Cause: He is the rapporteur at an information event of the Edessa Bar Association on the subject: ‘Demanding mediation’. The fourth under number 1516-17-2018 topical question first cycle of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christou Papa to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need to increase military service" will not be discussed due to the absence of the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr.Photos Kouvelis. Cause: Government obligation due to St. George's Feast protector of the Dryras Army. The third under No. 1515-17-2018 topical question for the Second Cycle of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the participation of military entrants in a party course of the JRC", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr.Photos Kouvelis Caused: Government obligation due to the celebration of St.George, protector of the Missiras Army. The fourth question under number 1518-17-14-2018, topical question by H' Vice President of Parliament and MP, Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the problems of four million borrowers, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to the workload. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-23-S1-commons.u11	With the agreement of the House at 18.32 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 24 April 2018 at 18.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, according to the agenda to be distributed.
