ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Thursday 1 November 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 105/29-10-2018 by Mr Simos Kedicoglou, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “The Chalkida bypass - N. Lamphakos - Psakna”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 97/23-10-2018, a topical question by Congressman I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "Kazani ready to explode the Skopje Land" 3. The 112/30-10-2018 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Eitolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "To complete the work of irrigation and refreshment in the plain at the estuary of Mornos". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 106-10-2018 by MP of the Greek Republic Mr Stavros Kalafatis to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "In the last posts in the European Union Greece in poverty and child poverty". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 116/30-10-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKK KEGROGOU to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Taking to address the serious problems arising from the adoption of the new draft delimitation of the map of disadvantaged areas". 3. Under No 98/24-10-2018, a topical question by MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The pogrom against the Greeks in Chimara continues." 4. The Question No 75-16-10-2018 by MP Pireos of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Protection of crews from abandonment of a ship of inland waterways”. 5. The 1/1-10-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Antonios Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Macedonian Museum and other institutions, associations and associations of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement". Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the legislative agenda, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House of thirty students and students and two teachers from the Megalopolis High School (first section). Welcome, boys, to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, New Democracy MP Mr. Theodoros Fortsakis, is applied for a absence abroad from 1-11-2018 to 7-11-2018 for his participation in a scientific conference in Marseille Aix - En - Provence. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u3	We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/994 of 13 July 2018 amending the Act concerning the election of Members of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage annexed to Council Decision 76/787/ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976. The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure. That means that those who object to the ratification of that decision can take the floor. If the majority rapporteur wants to, she can take the floor for two minutes, just to enter the matter, my colleague. Under the Rules of Procedure, you know that only those who object. It is customary for the rapporteur to take the floor for a minimum of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. We introduced the bill. We believe that it is in a positive direction and that is why we are calling for it to be voted on by the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, the Communist Party of Greece has voted against the bill. Responsibility has been expressed by the New Democracy and the Union of Centres. The Members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn were absent. So I would first like to ask my colleague of the Communist Party of Greece to speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, we are against. We have said that we will be in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u7	Mr Colleague, because you were absent, you are now tabling your negative intention. And you'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, would you give me the floor for a minute to tell you why we were absent? We were absent...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u9	Isn't it better to tell them when you get the floor as conjecture? You better tell them then, don't change the show. So now Mr Athanasios Bardalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. We are now discussing a number of amendments to the European electoral law, which in no way change the nature and the aims of the European Union. On the contrary. These amendments are included in its general objectives. What does it want to achieve through these amendments to European electoral law? The hasty, first of all, for the European Union is to promote the armouring of its own business groups, to make them more competitive, in any case to ensure their profitability. This objective, of course, will be to say that it is not today. However, the basic pillars which promote the interests of capital, such as the European parties, are now being denounced. The people are increasingly deceiving the European Union itself and its policy. So here's what he wants to do with these amendments. To support and strengthen European parties and these in turn to support its anti-popular policy more effectively in today's conditions. In this sense, it allows the Member State Member State to allow the lists to have the name or logo of the European political party, with which the national political party is linked. In other words, the European Union itself must be legitimised in the awareness of the peoples in this way. To restore, obviously, the unprecedented authority and influence of the European political parties of the European Parliament itself as European Union tools for manipulating working people's consciences. On the other hand, it also takes its measures to exclude annoying voices by putting greater and more obstacles to the expression of the people's will. I shall be more specific here: in this sense, each Member State is obliged to introduce a mandatory threshold for the allocation of seats from 2% to 5% of the valid lists and in the constituencies with more than thirty-five seats for the European Parliament elections. This introduction of the mandatory threshold for the allocation of seats from 2% to 5% we consider it reactive. Why? Because it is putting obstacles to the expression of the people's will and seeks to exclude political forces opposed to the European Union and its anti-popular political, first and foremost communist parties. Why? The above restrictions distort the correlation between the people's vote and parliamentary representation. After all, it is well known that our party's firm and unequivocal position is in favour of simple and unadulterated analogy. In conclusion, what is being sought by the European Union with these amendments to the European electoral law is to create those safeguards that will further shield the implementation of its barbaric policy and legitimise it with the greatest consent of the people. In my time, a second issue that we want to stand as a Communist Party of Greece is the possibility in advance of letter vote, but also by electronic and online means. In our view, this possibility creates a serious question. Why, first of all, does the European Union give this possibility? Is it because the pain ate her to make use of new technologies and to facilitate voters through electronic voting? She argues in the explanatory statement that such measures will reverse the low participation in the electoral procedures of workers and young people. This low participation, however, has not been shaped by the way the vote has been taken so far, but by the aversion of the anti-French policy of the European Union, but also of the governments of its Member States. This is a policy which, regardless of the level of development of each member country, has as a general trend this trend in all countries, whether they have a capitalist economic crisis or not, is either not in the memoranda - to remove more and more rights from the populace, in order to shield the competitiveness and profitability of business groups. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In addition, editorial and electronic voting create serious risks of fraud, breach of secrecy and influence of votes and others. We have serious reservations on this issue and we are also opposed here. To conclude, we will vote against the release and incorporation of this specific decision of the European Union, because it brings about changes which are dictated by the European Union's desire to incorporate popular consciences and to encroach on the so-called 'European project'. We are therefore voting against both the principle and the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Germenis, the guardian, Mr. Tasoulas, will be preceded by you according to the order of the parties. Here, Mr. Tasoula, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, so far I have been alert. Mr Minister, from now on I am amazed, you are very surprised that the government for the first time - here the first time - does not even bring an amendment to the European Council's decision. However, because this is a shadowy contradiction from your current behaviour, I conclude that it is the exception that confirms the rule and, without wanting to do any damage to your inner-party, I urge you to continue with it in any way. So the directive on the enlargement of voters to the European Parliament shows precisely the prevailing view of internationally, pan-Europeanly on the mobilisation of the administrative and other facilities of citizens to participate in the public. In our opinion, as we have said, it is the provision of this initiative which allows and enables the European elections to introduce modern technological means in order to facilitate the vote and the remote but also those which are for health reasons, for example, unable to vote. This facility is also linked to the encouragement of national parliaments to adopt provisions to vote in European elections and voters who are at that time or reside in third countries. Third countries are not members of the European Union. There is therefore no objection to this provision which we are voting on. However, I am taking the opportunity of the presence of the Minister of Interior and the topicality, which is also dictated by the great need for what the government agrees to do in the European elections to extend it to the national elections. You do not mean to be in favour of the participation of the Greeks, who are abroad in the European elections and not to facilitate the right of Greeks to national elections. I will then present to you once again the last amendment we have tabled, Minister, to facilitate the vote of the Greek voters, who are abroad. He's detailed, he's talking about the seamen, he's talking about the commissions, which will be tripartite, who'll be in charge, etc. I think it is a good job, and we insist that you see more sympathy and make full use of it. The vote of the Greeks abroad both in the European elections and in the national elections of those who are, in principle, electorate - because, obviously, this is what the Constitution says - broadens democracy and extends the electorate. At this point, I would like, in order to undermine all your commitment to the difficultness of this step, to repeat that in Greece, in October 1862, a hundred and sixty years ago, the Greeks, who are abroad, have been legislated to vote. One month after this legislation, in November 1862, the Greek people voted and raised a government that managed the period of mediation until George I arrived. Historical, emotional and practical reasons dictate to me, in the very least time I have, the names of the full members of the National Assembly of 1862 who participated in that Parliament, which lasted four years, to see how the respective Minister of Interior, Zaimis, took care of and held elections. That was a hundred and fifty-six years ago, please! And I tell you again, to undermine all reservations and reluctances that this cannot be achieved quickly today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I read: Information Register 2, National Assembly 1862. Averof Georgios, Consulate Region of Cairo. Antoniadis Spyridas, Consulate Region of Crete. Crete still belonged to Greece. Georgas Sotiriou, Consulate Region of Alexandria. Georgatopoulos Eustathos, the Consulate Region of Jassi. Jalemos Odysseus, Izmir Consulate Region. Kallergis Dimitrios, Consulate Region of Crete. Good A., Consulate Region of Epirus. Red Emmanuel, Consulate Region of Chios. Near A., Consulate Region of Thessaloniki. I remind you we're at 1862. Laskaridis George, of the London Nationals, Mr. Haritsis. Laskaridis Laskaris, Consulate Region of Beirut. Ikecios, Consulate Region of Izmir. Boat Konstantinos, Consulate Region of Samos. Manakis A., Consulate Region of Epirus. Leo, the Liverpools. Mousouros G., Consulate Region of Thessaloniki. Moraitin Aristides, Trieste and Venice of National Greeks. James Woodwood, Consulate Region of Messini Sicily. Orphanides T. Consular Region of Vitalion, in the monastery. Panas Elias, Consulate Region of Istanbul. Pantoleon N., Consulate Region of Andrianoupolis. Petroccolios Efstratios, Consulate Region of Melitis. She's in Florina. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Ragabis Alexander, Consulate Region of Andrianoupolis. Rallys George, Consulate Region of Andrianoupolis. Rallys Konstantinos, Odessa Consulate Region. Rhodokanis D., Consulate Region of the Blue Sea. Sakellaridis N., the Consulate Region of Jassi. Scaramagas Ambrosios, Odessa Consulate Region. Sultan Dimitrios, Consulate Region of Alexandria. Trikoupis Spyridon, Magchestria, England. Trikoups Charilaos, Consul General of London. Gregory Hanger, Bucharest Consulate District. Christides Dimitrios, Cairo Consulate Region. I'll give you the relevant name document. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Tasoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If, then, 156 years ago, the government succeeded in voting in Liverpool, Palestine, Istanbul, Andrianoupolis and Alexandria, only political and party reasons will prevent you from doing the same for the next national elections. This is a splendid field of glory, Mr Minister, of the interior.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u13	Thank you. Mr. Germenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, first of all I would like to inform the House, but also the Greek citizens who are listening to us, that the Golden Dawn was not absent from the debate on this particular committee. We were absent from the vote. We were present, and I'm clear about that. On that day we asked our rapporteur, Ioannis Lagos, for the male murder of our Greek fellow citizen by the Albanians, a young man, Konstantinos Katsifa, to have a single condemnation of the event both by the Greek Parliament and by all means, to have a single line of condemnation of this male murder of the young child, the Greek patriot. Instead, the proposal made by the Golden Dawn was not accepted, and as a sign of protest, we stood up and left the committee and did not continue to discuss national mourning on that day about this tragic event in Albania. Until today, no wing from the other parties of the House, except Golden Dawn, has condemned this incident. We believe that the flags of the Greek nation should have been mediated, that the House was with the colors of mourning. They light it up at times in various colors when we have some gay pride, but she didn't care to show a feeling towards this family that is mourning her child right now. That is what I have to say about the committee. It was badly said by the Bureau that the Golden Dawn was absent. Obviously they hadn't informed you what happened that day in the committee. This is to make it clear what has been done in this committee. With regard to the concrete ratification that we are debating, and we are talking about the upcoming European elections that will take place on 23 and 26 May, the most important development that exists from the last European elections is that we have the departure of Great Britain from this Parliament. Furthermore, with regard to the developments in the European Parliament's policy, we see that there are strong protests from various nationalist and patriotic parties, such as Italy, which its Vice-President, Salvini, has now shown openly that he has no intention of being under the yoke of this economic latitude which he has captured in its own size and in Italy, like Greece. This sanction, therefore, does nothing further than show that it wants to exist through this ratification of a unity and a link and a sequence of states. The preamble to this report speaks of a muddling of parties, a unified political will of the peoples, judged under political movements and parties, which will only be referred to as the People's Party, Republicans, Labour Party. There will be a single move. We are against this, because as I say on the inside, the ratification reads: 'The transparency of the electoral process and access to reliable information are important for increasing European political awareness and ensuring a significant percentage of election participation. It is desirable that the citizens of the Union be informed well before the elections to the European Parliament, about the candidates for those elections and about the association of national political parties with a European political party.’ In other words, they are trying to plunder the European consciousness of nations under parties -'marinettes' under party labels. Each citizen will no longer be free to vote at the will of the national parties, but will go according to the order of Brussels. I continue with something mentioned by the other parties, about the right to vote for European citizens who are in third countries. It is a consistent position of the Golden Dawn and we want this to be applied in the national elections, to be able to vote for Greek expatriates, but also for Greeks who have left because the memorandum has made life unbearable in Greece and have had to find a job abroad. We, as Golden Dawn, had told the committee at that time, under the Minister of State at the time Skourletis, who was committed to building a committee, which will examine the question whether the Greeks and Greeks who have left will be able to vote abroad. It has been five months since that committee, in the debate on the 'Classhen' bill, and so far we have not had any younger. The European elections are in May, the national and regional elections will seem to be, perhaps together, perhaps sooner, but the government has not made it clear what it intends to do. At this point I would like to say that the Civic Opposition, the New Democracy, is being cut off with the amendment that was then brought to the vote by the Greeks abroad and by the Greeks, because I would remind you that it was thirty years of government in the country and never brought, neither when it was a government, nor all these years of legislation that there is as a party some study on how these elections should be held and that Greeks and Greeks abroad can vote. For this reason, let us not walk the voters, the Greek citizens, and let us not mention what happened a hundred and fifty-six years ago. For within these hundred and fifty-six years, thirty years he ruled as a New Democracy and a half years he was right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I just want to make it clear that I said that you were absent during the vote in committee. But you were right to clarify, to know that you had taken part in the committee and then left. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, thank you very much. I think that the very interesting debate that took place in the committee two days ago highlighted the issues in relation to this bill of ratification of the amending decision of the Council of the European Union. As we have said in committee, the national legislator has already predicted and these amendments have been incorporated as a whole into national legislation. Therefore, there is no question of compliance. I am, however, pleased to see that there is a broad consensus in this House in voting for this bill, which typically closes this openness on the road to European elections, which we will once again say at this juncture are very critical for Europe and for our country, with extremes, xenophobic and racist forces to emerge in many countries of Europe. I would just like to make a comment on what has been said in committee, but they have just been pointed out by the rapporteur for the Staff Regulations, Mr Tasoula. I would like to thank him, first of all, for giving us a picture of what happened in 1862 with the respective initiative for the vote of the Greeks abroad. I would like to say, then, once again, that our Government took the initiative for the first time, and even though, as early as 2001, this was foreseen in constitutional terms, to set up and run the committee for the vote of Greeks abroad. This committee, which was set up with a cross-party consensus, as the parties themselves proposed that scientists of unknown prestige take part in it, has already started working and my own encouragement at the first meeting I attended, and before, if possible, from the timetable set by the law of Kleisthenia, five months, that is to say, the duration laid down by the law, so that in the current parliamentary term we can move forward with legislation on this subject. I am, therefore, happy and I think it is an honour for the current government that, after all these years, we, more than a century and a half, have taken this initiative for the first time to set up a committee and for the legislation that is to be followed, so that we can resolve this political and technically complex issue of the vote of Greek voters abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle and articles of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior is hereby concluded: ‘Repeal of Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/994 of 13 July 2018 amending the Act on the election of Members of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage annexed to Council Decision 76/787/ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u18	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u19	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u20	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: ‘Repeal of Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/994 of 13 July 2018 amending the Act concerning the election of Members of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage, annexed to Council Decision 76/787/ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u22	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-31-S1-commons.u23	With the consent of the House at 14.11' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, November 1, 2018 at 09.30', on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate; and (b) legislative work: only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Structuring the Concession Agreement between the Greek Government and the company GIAOSE SA. ANTI-DUMPING CONTRIBUTION MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT, by ‘COMMERCIAL CONTROL CENTRE’, by ‘ETVA INDUSTRIAL REGIONS CONTRIBUTION’ and by ‘GOLLOWER CARGO INTERNATIONAL CONTRIBUTION AND LOGISTICS ANNUAL CONTRIBUTION’, by ‘DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRY’, for the development of a TRIP and other provisions, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
