ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House that under the decision of the President of Parliament of 15 October 2018 under Rule 43A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure Subcommittees of the Special Permanent Committees: a) Subcommittee on Water Resources of the Special Standing Committee on the Protection of the Environment, b) Subcommittee on Disabled Persons of the Special Standing Committee on Equality, Youth and Human Rights and c) Subcommittee on Island and Mountain Areas of the Special Standing Committee on Regions. The decision in question has been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the Member, Mr Panagiotis (South) Mitarakis, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, from 2 November 2018 to 4 November 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u3	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we begin, let me tell you the timely questions of today's newspaper that will not be discussed. The second question by number 41/9-10-2018, by Member of Parliament, Larisa, PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriota, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Why are you not accepting the amendment of the DISSY's amendment on the operation of medically supervised use of psychotropic substances? A National Action Plan against Drugs without National Coordinator may be drawn up,” he said. The third, with number 43/9-10-2018, topical question of the second Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: “About a philosophical event in Florina”, it is not discussed. The fourth under number 2/1-10-2018 is a topical question by MP II of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Antiquities of violence have been exercised by EL.AS. The demonstration of Thessaloniki against the Prespecies Agreement is not being discussed. Also, the first question under number 36/8-10-2018, the first question of the first cycle of the Deputy Minister of Finance of New Democracy, Christos Stakouras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Assessment of general government expenditure" is not discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, on the ground: "Forum of work". The second question under number 19/3-10-10-2018 of the First Cycle of the MP for the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The remainder of the Molyviats Fund, is not debated because of an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou, on the grounds that: "Forum of work". The fourth under number 17/2-10-2018, a top-stage question for the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr. Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Assessment of the bill of the contribution of Mr.128/75 to the aid of the East Attica", is not being discussed because of the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou, on the ground that: "Forum of work". The third, with number 28/8-10-2018, timely question for the first cycle of Congressman I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Kazan ready to explode the state of Skopje", is not discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of National Defence Mr. Panos Kammenos, on the ground: "Forum of Work". So we begin with the only question that will be discussed today, which is the first under number 37/8-10-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Mr Spyridonos - Adonodos Georgiadis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "With regard to the serious complaint of a worker at the Central Public Health Laboratory for the creation of bitcoin in the field of machinery". Please, Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, thank you very much. As it is the only time-consuming question, I believe there will be an understanding in time. Minister, thank you very much for your presence here today. I must admit, I'm a little disappointed. Don't take it personally. I expected that, because of CEDEFOP and Rosenberg, he will be here the friend to me, Mr. Paulakis, who is usually involved in CEDEFOP. And, because he proclaimed our persecutions and our prisons yesterday, and the conversation has the element of the entrepreneur, it's good to ask you directly, too, if you think the only way to win the next election is to close one of your political opponents in prison. Your opinion will be interesting too. And, because it also has the worries about the speed of justice, Mr. Paulakis, I also inform him and the Minister - and I put it in the Minutes of the House - that since 21-7-2017 the interrogator, Mr. Spyridon Kapodistrias, has been asked to Mr. Rosenberg, with his urgency, to provide him with all the evidence to proceed with the extremely urgent matter, according to the prosecutor, for the officials of Mr. Paulakis, to whom he has been prosecuted for illegal recruitment in CEDEFOP. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to inform you, Minister, that, in order to tell your Vice-President, who is 'anguish' about the speed of justice, that almost two years after - one and a half years, Mr Rosenberg has not sent any of these evidence to the interrogator. So, instead of looking at Mr. Paulakis' long-lived constitutional changes, let him tell his current, Mr. Rosenberg, or tell you, to send the investigator the information he has asked for. And I go a little on today's subject, which, Mr President, would look like a scientific fiction scenario if it were not real. What's the story? On 17 September 2018, an official of the CEDEFOP, the CEDEFOP's Public Health Centre in Vare, complains, following a previous written complaint, on the 14th day of the month, by a company that installed in the CED of Varia Electrical Equipment, that they caught in the public building of the CEDO machinery for "explosion" bitcoin. This is the term used, ‘mining’ in English. For people to understand what we're talking about, this is a very serious issue. Because what did these people do, Mr President? They put on the building of CDC machines that consume huge amounts of electricity to produce bitcoin and take the money, at our expense, by evading and making black money laundering. In fact - and that is what has not been answered by the Minister at all - I am tabling the following unimportant for the Minutes of this House. I don't know if you know. CEDEFOP official, Nikos K. - I am not saying his last name for the purpose of protecting personal data, but it is unfortunately his information on the ad. - Two months before the complaint, Mr President, on the Internet advertising with the CEDEFOP's address in Vari, which promised a 30% return per year from EUR 1 000 and an investment of up to EUR 100,000. So he gave a 30% interest a year through CDC. Take the ad and see it. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'll let you know, because you're looking a lot for the scandals there. Mr. Paulakis, when he sees a scandal runs, he missed the bitcoin with money laundering through the CDC. And now listen to the asbestos, which is the basis of my question. The company comes in and installs the machinery, upon the official's assurance that there is Mr Rosenberg's approval. Because in the case-file, as you will see in the complaints, he signed that Mr Rosenberg, the President of the CEDEFOP, who you have placed there, was aware of the purchase of these machines. Justice will judge whether or not it was. But what makes us an enormous impression, Minister - and this is what I am going to close and I really want you to answer - is this: Do you know what happened with that official, who put this advertisement on the Internet that I have previously submitted, who made money laundering through the CIC building? Mr. Rosenberg upgraded him. He said - he said - he would call him for explanations of disciplinary character in the CEDEFOP and finally put him in the central building of the CEDEFOP in Maroussi and gave him the post of Deputy Managing Officer and Distribution of the CEDEFOP. Probably to make paper ad for laundry. I mean, the clerk who gave a laundry ad, not only was he not punished by Mr. Rosenberg, but was even upgraded.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Georgiadis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u7	And I say this, Minister, because recently the CEDEFOP fired officials - the well-known officials charged by Mr Paulakis - because Mr Rosenberg was unable to withstand a fly in his sword. Now, all of a sudden, with Internet laundering ad, the company's complaints that Rosenberg himself was involved with the official, that Rosenberg told him to do the laundry, go and upgrade him to the CDC and give him a better place? And you, as Minister, have dealt with this case? What are your findings? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Let's get them in order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u10	I have the impression that you should answer this question. I say it because we disapprove.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u11	I'll answer. Now Mr. Georgiadis has a tendency to spread the trachea.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u12	No, I mean the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u13	Look what the real fact is. The fact is, in fact, that two machines were found in the facilities of the CED in Vari, which had nothing to do with the remaining facilities of the CED. And says the company, which supports telecommunications and information, is a particular company, 'EPSILON TELEDATA', is its name - in its assessment: 'We think, without being absolute, that these may be some machinery related to the extraction of encryption, bitcoin etc.'. There is also the opinion of an external partner, an electrician, who says the same thing, without being an expert, "I think there is this possibility". This complaint is made on 13 September. On 12 September, Mr. Rosenberg tours the CEDH, visits the premises. It chooses to visit places such as refrigerators, storage areas, undergrounds, facilities, accompanied by employees, including the gentleman you mentioned. There's no mention of this. Then there's a complaint. The opinion is given by the ones I have just mentioned. Immediately the matter comes to the administration of the CDC. The Board of Directors calls for disciplinary checks on the two officials involved, one with responsibility and the general responsibility for the structure. He asks them in writing for explanation. It is not convinced of the explanations, especially the gentleman you referred to with the initials, which imposes the highest possible disciplinary penalty, i.e. depriving him of his salary for three months and moving from the place where he was working and was responsible, because there were obviously no shades of evidence that he was responsible for placing these machines. These are until the case is fully settled. The other official is subject to a lower disciplinary penalty. At the same time, Mr Rosenberg, as of 17 September, sends the Advocate General first, who then sends the file to the Corruption Prosecutor. The case is forwarded to the relevant Committee on Electronic Crime of the Greek Police and to the General Inspector for Public Administration. So the administration of the CEDEFOP acts as much as is necessary and legally appropriate, i.e. exercises disciplinary control and imposes a penalty. This official, Mr Georgiadis, has not been upgraded, but has been removed and a service has been selected at the central building of CEDEFOP to be placed until the case is fully investigated. The area was sealed, access to anyone without permission from the President has been banned from contact and we expect the conclusion and control which the competent authorities will exercise. So the CDC command doesn't have any behavior annoying in this case. Obviously, it's something that happened without knowing about it. Apparently an employee of the CEDEFOP - we do not know if he is the person or someone else - placed the machines. It will be investigated whether this was precisely their use and the damage, which may have occurred, because these machines are energetic, in the management - let us say - of the money of the CEDEFOP. There is an assurance from the relevant telecommunications company that there has been no access to the data, which is very sensitive. The data from the Central Public Health Laboratory, you understand, are very sensitive and we must ensure that anyone does not have access to this data. So in this very critical part, there doesn't seem to be any impact. There is a possible impact on the consumption of electricity on the structure concerned, etc. So I think there's been a lot of noise for nothing. It will, in fact, be controlled in the sense of trying to give responsibilities to the current administration of the CEDEFOP. There's an effort here, and it seems the people with whom you were contacted aren't well informed, perhaps because they've been removed from the CDC lately and that's why they gave you - I think - an unaccountable picture. Therefore, in the context of disciplinary punishment, this official was moved and not in the context of the upgrade, his reward. I would remind you that these officials you are saying have not been fired by the administration of the CEDEFOP so in hunger. They were charged by the D.A. for felony acts. This is the truth and, of course, this was also the case with Mr Papadimitriou, the former Director-General of the CEDEFOP, who was also referred irrevocably to the detriment of the organisation. I think that the administration was right to protect the authority and credibility of the institution and the work of honest officials and scientists who were working to protect public health and did not participate in a prestige of corruption and plausibility, which we know has existed in the previous period. So these are the facts. This case will be audited by the competent audit and prosecution authorities. When there are findings and responsibilities, they will be attributed and you have no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u14	Please, Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u15	I'll start with the last one. I think that you are not well informed and I do not think you are involved - I want to be honest - as your deputy. You probably don't know the case very well. Mrs. Tsagari has no felony action. It has the same persecution as Mr Kalambalis, except Mr Kalambalis said what Mr Paulakis and Mrs Tsagaris wanted. You know, Minister, what Mr. Rosenberg and your board of directors did? He fired the first in the same category and did not fire the second in the same category. So don't tell me in here that they did it to protect the CDC. They did it to protect Paul. I would also like to say to you, Minister, that at first I tabled a document for the interrogator who, with his extremely urgent document, has been asking Mr Rosenberg for a criminal offence of a malicious nature for other CEDEFOP officials, who have, however, been posted by Mr Polakis. Those officials who have been prosecuted for a felony, Mr. Xanthi, why didn't you fire them to protect the authority of CEDEFOP? So, please, let us be honest when we talk. You persecuted these people just because they didn't do Paul's favor. It is the greatest definition of political persecution. I will say one more thing, because it is timely today, Minister. This was all based on Mrs Papaspyrou's conclusion. In my opinion, I have said it in public, and I will not repeat it. But do you know what Greek justice has achieved today for Mrs. Papaspyrou? Today, these officials from STASY, who were also prosecuted for a felony on the basis of the findings of Ms Papaspyrou. And you know what the court said? She said Mrs. Papaspyrou's finding is for the trash. And he unanimously acquitted them all. So don't tell me about the CDC mismanagement. And you're an honest man. To tell this in the House, there must be a conviction. Do you have a conviction for one? You don't have anyone! On the contrary, Mr. Paulakis came to Parliament, said there are 230 million euro deficits in CEDEFOP, became a relic of dogs by the sworn accountants and, of course, from that day on his favorite Facebook and no mandarins wrote about CEDEFOP or anything, because he became a rapist. Therefore, you do not repeat things to which you do not participate. Now we're going to bitcoin. You probably don't understand it well, and you've underestimated it. I read you from the complaint lodged by the company, which, of course, you have read: 'Sometimes they discussed the above machinery and my partner' - says the company - 'you asked for information on why they were placed in this place and on the work they are doing'. The official replied that he is a second back up for the archives of the building and that he is aware of the subject and the president of CEDEFOP Mr. Rosenberg. Take the post. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] You don't understand. Mr Rosenberg himself is named in the complaint, namely that Mr Rosenberg was aware of. And you know the best, Minister? Because that's not what you guys can't know you guys are so well informed, and I'm not. Don't you know that Mr. Rosenberg has taken out a special circular for a year and closes the CCBC buildings at 17.00 p.m.? He or his people have the keys himself, and there's no way a single employee can get in unless he gets permission from Mr. Rosenberg. Don't you know that there's a complaint in the D.A.'s office that went back to pick up her medication from the office and didn't allow her to come in because of Mr. Rosenberg's firm mandate? How is it that, while Mr Rosenberg controls everything to such a large extent and cannot go to the CEDEFOP or go out without him knowing about it, he must have missed that for two months that the other has been making advertising for black money on the Internet, Minister? Who are you going to convince? Also, do not tell me that it has not been upgraded - I say this to hear from the Greek people - the official who has posted advertising on the Internet for laundry - does not eat electricity, you said - of black money. That's what he did through bitcoin, so it's 30% interest. And it didn't, as you think, Minister. You may not be well informed. Do you know what the complaint in there says about how the company understood that there are these machines? The walls were burned. It took so much power this machine, the building burned and feared that it would take fire and so decided to deal with and see what makes the walls of the whole building burn from up to down because of the current that these machines consumed. And all that has happened for three months, Mr. Rosenberg, the diligent one, had not understood it at all and had to publish the newspaper "First Theme" that I gave you and the company's complaint to move on? And all that you've said to us, to close, is quite self-evident, Minister. If Mr. Rosenberg didn't do what you told us, he'd already been inside himself. On the substance of the matter, the official who named Mr Rosenberg himself and said that he knew about the machinery is now at the central office of the ERIC. I will return to his post, because you said he is not upgraded: he has duties of Deputy Managing Officer and Distribution of ERIC material.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u16	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u17	The clerk ate a lot of laundry. It's a long sentence! Or did Mr. Rosenberg finally know? Did it occur to you that he might have known? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u18	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u19	If I understood it well, then, what you are telling us is that the administration of the CEDEFOP and Mr Rosenberg personally knowingly allowed this procedure to function, which is not proven to be it, is likely, as I said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u20	Check it out, check it out!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u21	No one's ever proved it. You reproduce a witness to a company, which says 'without being experts, we're likely to.' That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u22	But I filed the ad!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u23	So you say, in his knowledge, that he did this and indeed the one who denounced him - he is supposed to - raise him up already. It doesn't draw any conclusion from this, Mr. Georgiadis. Do you know what my conclusion is? My conclusion is that precisely because you cannot even imply that this administration of CEDEFOP and its political leadership may have a bearing on tyranny management and real coins, you discover the 'cryption'. And go set up a debate that, in fact, I think also insults the intelligence of the people they are watching. As regards the CEDEFOP itself, for which we have discussed many times, Mr Georgiadis, I am impressed with the effort you are constantly making to provide political immunity - that is what I am saying at the moment - to the people who have proved themselves by the competent prosecutor in their special findings have been charged with abuses, constantly press ahead of the conclusion, to interview and to try to create a climate of upcoming political persecution in a body known to the whole of society - and in particular the health world - that it was the epitome of viciousness, non-transparent management, waste of public money, client relations and trade with interests. That everyone knows and knows, too, that this government was the only one who had the political courage to open up with this field and start providing the abscess. And he kicked out the key face, which was Mr. Papadimitriou and which also knows the whole world. So please, too! Here we have a procedure which is in institutional investigation, both by the Committee of Inquiry and, of course, by justice. So don't show up - because I think that's annoying behaviour - to be quick to say that all these are constructions of Paul, the government, the Papaspyros, the Minister of Justice, the Xanthos - I don't know what - and that all this is aimed at political persecution by opponents. Do not rush to do this and say it because, in my view, you will simply be exposed. The abscess has been prompted and, in fact, we will proceed in the next few months and will bring, probably in the next month, a bill on the institutional reorganisation of the CEDEFOP. We will make a serious intervention in resolution, and we will also change the name to give the signal that we are being cut off from a past of unreliability and prudence at management level, not, of course, at scientific work. We say this too many times: the excellent scientists of the CEDEFOP continue now to offer important work to protect public health and we are grateful for that. I think the honest officials and scientists of the CEDEFOP want this resolution. This, my dear fellow Member, will move forward in every way. It is a matter of honor and dignity for all of us. I also think that very easily you have come out to triumph that the finding of sworn accountants, in your view, is acquittal. Do you, Mr Georgiadis, think that the accounting differences of EUR 90 million do you think they are innocent? Do you know what it means quite simply? I'm not an accountant, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u24	It's me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u25	You guys don't know if you are. I know other professions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u26	With the Bureau's permission, let me tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u27	I, therefore, know and can understand that accounting differences cover costs that are incompatible with the purpose of the body. So that's what the sworn accountants find.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u28	Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u29	That means horrendous management, that doesn't prove innocence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u30	Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u31	In my view, it demonstrates and confirms that this is where there was a very methodical money laundering plan and the use of public money for other purposes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u32	The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-15-S1-commons.u33	With the consent of the House at 18.32 p.m., the sitting on Thursday 18 October 2018 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate.
