ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval 4-10-2018, the minutes of its PRACTICE Sessions of Thursday 4, October 2018, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: "I) Central Repositories of Titles, II) Adjustment of Greek Legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2016/2258 and other provisions and III) Other provisions of the Ministry of Finance".]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Monday 8 October 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 11/1-10-2018 topical question of the Athens Parliamentary I, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Safe in the city of Athens". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 13/2-10-2018, a timely question by the Member of Parliament for the Lease of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Why do you not accept the PIS amendment on the operation of medically supervised psychotropic sites? Can a national anti-drug action plan be drawn up without a national coordinator?’ 3. The 2/1-10-2018 topical question by Congressman Pireos of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagos to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "An urgent violence was carried out by ELAS in the demonstration of Thessaloniki against the Prespecies Agreement". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 12/1-10-2018 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance on "Financing actions from criminal actions against the Greek public and making available for social purposes". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 5/1-10-10-2018 by MP Pireaus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Kazan ready to explode the state of Skopje".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS As of today's topical and urgent debate, the following topical questions will not be discussed in accordance with a mandate from the Secretary-General of the Government. The second, with number 3/1-10-2018, top-stage question of the first cycle of Congressman I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Kouzilos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Skaramaga", due to an impediment by the State Secretary in charge. The first under number 10/1-10-2018, a second question by the Deputy Minister of Finance and Development, Christos Dimas to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Absorbing the resources of the NSRF 2014-2020", due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Giannakides, who is on a government mission. Start with the first 9/1-10-2018 top cycle question of the New Democracy MP Evros, Anastasios Publicskakis, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Preservative indifference of the Minister of Education for Samothraki and Evros. It did not integrate the island of Niki in favour of the introduction of students affected in AEI - TEI. The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs will answer Mr. Gavroglou. Please, Mr. Publicservakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Samothraki a year ago suffered biblical disasters due to extreme weather events. The result was to suffer irreparable damage to infrastructure, networks, schools, buildings, businesses and their own residences. The morality of the people has collapsed, Mr President, at that time. I left Athens and visited the island immediately and found that this disaster was biblical. Still today they gather their debris and try to stand on their feet. The minimum demand, Minister, for sixteen families of the island was that their children should be included in the favourable regulation of the premium for the children of the affected areas by extreme weather phenomena for their entry into the higher education institutions of the country as part of the pan-Hellenic examinations. The local municipality asked you to do so at its request on 4 April. I asked you to do so, too, through parliamentary scrutiny, asking a written question and indeed on the day you took the decision. I was hoping I could catch up with you. You have had to answer in twenty-five days, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House. Mr President, the Minister did not say anything and he did not reply to a Member of the Greek Parliament, as is due under Greek law. In fact, I have had to ask myself, because of my responsibility and because of my love in my own island and in my own country, my constituency, and I have had to ask a timely question and bring this matter to plenary and it could be solved by a supplementary decision or even delayed for one day when it comes to adopting the relevant decision. Today you need to explain above all to all the citizens of Samothrace, especially to their children and families, why you did not include them in your decision, as you did with the children of Mandra, Nea Peramos and Kos. They're not asking for favor, they're not asking for charity. They request what they are entitled to under Law 4521/2018, as provided for in the relevant article 42 which the entire House of Greeks voted for. Unfortunately, you once again, Minister, turn your back on Evros and Thrace. And that is what our people and the institutional actors have to do, taking into account other political decisions relating to our region. Can you please explain to the people of Samothrace what reason you did not include the island of Niki, even afterward, in your ministerial decision to introduce an import premium for local high school pupils to higher education institutions, as provided for in the relevant legislation? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I would ask Mr Derskakis in his denture to tell me what other decisions are unfair, downgrade - I do not remember the word you used - the region of Evros and Thrace.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u7	I'd love to. Give us time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u8	You're very happy to say. I'm very happy to hear that, too. Mr. Treasury, how many days have the schools been closed in Samothraki because of this problem? Do you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u9	For a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u10	Is the two days in your opinion a long time? Why am I saying that? Because you have invoked the Greek Parliament and its Members, we should all protect some favourable provisions that exist. On Friday, as you may know, schools throughout the country closed down because of the problem of the weather phenomena we had. What do we do next year? Are we going to give all the children of Greece favourable provisions to enter the universities? When we say favourable provisions, it is not a formal application of a law. So I ask the mayor to tell me specific things. I asked for it and it didn't exist. The mayor sent in April, as you mentioned, a letter. The letter says, "I ask you, according to the law, to proceed with this circular, etc.." Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. I know what laws we have to go through. From the mayor, from the regional director, from all the others, we are asking to tell us details of these disasters so that we can implement the law. You referred to Mandra. Is it possible to compare Mandra? We were dead. We've had months to get a local society into normality. I'll tell you about Mandra something that doesn't honor us many times as a society. We proceeded with the favorable provision. We are therefore discovering that there are changes in permanent residence during this period. People who were elsewhere in the well - seated appear in a permanent residence in Mandra. I say, therefore, that there is a percentage in our society which every time tries to exploit a provision that its core is right. So I urge you, too, to call the mayor - I told him, he did not - to call the regional director, to tell us, not according to what law we have to go ahead, but what were these cases, not faces. For example, "this road did not open, so schools were unsavoury" etc. and move on. Otherwise, we are concerned about the application and operation of such provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Prussakis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u12	Minister, I'm surprised. The law entered the House and passed came from you. And we have all voted in favour of him. Indeed, I am presenting for the Minutes of this House and my written question which I mentioned in my prototype and the relevant article, which does not provide for two days of open or closed school. It provides that the whole region has been declared in an emergency. In order to declare an area in this situation, the local municipality must decide to agree to the region and to come to the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, which is the highest instrument of such situations, extreme weather phenomena which cause damage. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastasios Prussakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's not just school. Is the house working? Is the road open? Is there any food? Is there light? For God's sake. Did you get to condemn sixteen children because they weren't consistent or did the local services not know that it was not complete? Or was the county secondary education not complete? He testifies to you and beats you to the bell to be consistent you as Minister who leads the education, lead all the children and solve the problem that concerns a family, employs an island, a county, a region. Today you come and say "I took the scale and counted whether it worked or not at school". For the economy, I will accept that it is late to send the documents, that the relevant services of the city did not move as quickly as they should. Do you, as Ministry, have included this article in the law, should you not have had a list of areas affected in 2017 and if they were declared in an emergency, ask for all those that were necessary to make your decision? Three regions were all over the country. I mentioned them. Fourth was Samothraki. If we go to Samothraki today, you will think that the key blows that the island has accepted are ten days. Yet the damage has still not been remedied. In any case, I would like you to address a third grade student who graduated in June. Tell him that if you don't complete your decision, he won't enter the Department of Musical Studies in Corfu. If you do not, you will leave Germany as a new immigrants in the framework of Brain Drain. Also, another student, who for the second year gave tests in Greece, as a student at the Polytechnic University of Xanthi, who achieved 91% of the last enrolled, succeeds in the Medicine of Alexandroupolis. Please answer him. I can't answer him. I don't have a soul to answer. To his family and to the island and to the whole society. Mr President, this debate today is being followed by Evros from all over Samothraki. The request is permanent, it's fair, it's documented. You will be unfair as Minister of Education to these children not to make a further decision yesterday. Under administrative law you have the right to do so, you have all the information. I wish you a fair and proper decision. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u13	Thank you. Mr Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u14	First of all, I was left with the impression that you would say what our policies are against Evros, which you did not say. Of course, silence is also judged. I hope that when you send to the world where you send the video of your position, it will also be accompanied by my statement. You have really missed an opportunity, and unfortunately your position remains dead, that our policies aim to degrade Evros, while we all know that the exact opposite is the case. Secondly, I would ask you to resolve this problem on the substance. You're telling me that a child who's at the Polytechnic of Xanthi has re-examinationed to go to Alexandroupolis's Medicine, didn't come in, but if we do that arrangement, he'll be in. Look out, he's a kid who went to the polytechnic in Xanthi. Right? And he wants to go to Alexandroupolis Medicine...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u15	It's a dream of life.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u16	It is a dream of life to go to Alexandroupolis, while why he went to the Polytechnic of Xanthi is a little indiscreet. But I don't have that kid. What I'm saying is if local society does have reasons. I do not question what you said to me, but we cannot send and as you understand one from the Ministry to check what, how etc. Neither to any family nor to any place. I therefore propose that we see where the problems were, what the problems were. I would ask you both to protect all those provisions, which are intended to help in substance, because, as you know, the exception tends to become the rule in that country. I am therefore appealing to you too to protect the validity of the laws and to be able to apply them to substance. I am not saying that these children have not been wronged, but the documents and testimonies we have had so far do not result in that. It may be incomplete to do so, but the evidence may be incomplete. A glorious glorious field to come on the ground and it is quite clear that the law allows us to move forward. We're not saying we're not going to move on. But it wants - I insist - to protect the prestige of the provisions we have and are the provisions of such a type that distinguish or exclude certain situations. Otherwise, I insist, the exceptions are almost the rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u17	I have the honour to inform the House that the Ministers for Education, Research and Religion, Foreign Affairs, Economic and Cultural Affairs and Sport, the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs and the Deputy Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Culture and Sport have tabled a draft law on 4-10-2018: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of San Marino on cooperation in the cultural, cultural and scientific fields". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u19	Please, Mr Prussakis, the Rules of Procedure do not allow any further debate. You can discuss with the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u20	For the economy of time, I didn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u21	You can discuss with the Minister in particular now gladly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u22	I would like to say that I for the time economy and the purpose we have come, which is why I have not answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u23	Deal. But that's the rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u24	Not that I've changed my line. However, in contravention of the Rules of Procedure, because they concern the issues of an entire Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, in summary terms if I can mention them, and may the Minister may say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u25	Yes, but we're entering another parliamentary phase.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u26	No, I don't denounce him, he can just fix some things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u27	You said...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u28	I'd love to. Talk with the Minister here in private. Minister, my request is to apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u29	I agree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u30	No, I'm not talking about you. Because another Member will then ask for the same and enter another story.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u31	You're absolutely right. I say that without our initiative, there was a charge that our policies are against Evros. So I asked very calmly, Mr. Prussias, to tell us who these are. He promised before in his denture that he'd say it. He didn't say. Did he forget? She doesn't know? I don't care. I say we stop here and ask a question about our Evros policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u32	I didn't forget. On the other hand, I wanted to give a little tone and emphasis to the subject on which we were in plenary today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u33	Please, Mr. Treasury, stop here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u35	We move on to the second topical question, No 16/2-10-2018, by Independent MEP B' Athens Mr. Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the subject: "The intensification of the refugee problem in Lesvos". Immigration Minister will answer Mr. Vitsats. Please, Mr Theochari, you have the floor for your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Over the last few days, we've all been following the situation in Moria. I've been watching her for too long. I was with the northern Aegean Region last year and we saw the situation there, which was not good at all. The situation has deteriorated ever since and, above all, it does a great deal of damage, Minister, to the public image of our country. You, too, have followed the reports of the German press, the publications on the other side of the Atlantic, which speak of situations experienced by minor children, vulnerable populations, such as women unaccompanied, such as teenagers, etc. So the situation in both Moria and Lesvos, which is the subject of my question, but the situation in Chios, even worse in Samos, seems to be uncontrolled. We have two issues, in my view, which the Ministry needs to solve. Your decision is to decongest by transferring people. We see that this does not progress at the rate you have promised. Are you going to set up more routes? Do you intend to take other steps to speed up this process? But, on the other hand, we have two fundamental and major problems in the long term, because the decongestion of the islands simply encourages traffickers to bring others to these islands and is therefore not a lasting solution. The question is, what are we doing with the FMDs, reception and identification centres, which have become such people's residence camps? In other words, we have infrastructure designed for an objective, which is transformed into infrastructure used for a different target, so they cannot cope. On top we have five, six and seven times more people than the one for whom they have been made. So we want to see your plans. Will you make more reception and identification centers? Will you convert the reception and identification centres into more permanent structures? What else does the Department intend to do? But most importantly - and this is the most important - the Ministry, this government, has passed a legislative framework for speeding up asylum procedures. What about it? Why is it not applied in practice and why cannot we give this permanent solution, which is only through the rapid examination of asylum applications? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u37	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Theocharis, I have no doubt that you are one of the Members who are permanently following the situation in the refugee and not of the Members who are mobilising or asking questions when they are taking the matter public.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u39	From August 31st, I asked the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u40	I have said this to you, and I myself have said that the situation on the islands, particularly in Samos, Moria and Lesvos, is very difficult to reach. You've heard it many times since April. And what are the reasons? The reasons are: First, the increased 2018 flows, by more than 50% on the islands in the summer of 2018. The second is that our borders are closed to the north. It's not that cold, it's that there's no program right now, either relocation or transportation. And the third part is that a series of programming that we had done was covered - I'm talking about spring 2018 - by the very increased April flows from Evros. Comparatively, three thousand three hundred people passed in 2016, five thousand five hundred and in 2018, up to now, about 12 thousand. So that's covered. You would remember that at the time we discussed a difficult situation in Thessaloniki. In 2017 I must tell you that they moved out of Lesvos four thousand three hundred sixty-five people, while so far, five thousand four hundred forty-one in 2018. But we have, as you said, increased flows. I must stress that only two thousand two thousand ten four people from Lesvos moved in September. I have to say something here, which is probably unclear in your question. You know that in Lesvos there is a system with three more general structures, namely Kara Tepe, which fits about a thousand two hundred people and we do not put one more, the apartments under the responsibility of the High Commissioner and Moria. Moria - while everything else is constant - is the one that accepts the greatest weight and operates as a container that communicates with the others. We don't want to ruin Kara Tepee and so on. So I come to the first. We are not thinking of another reception and identification centre either in Lesvos or in the other islands. The things we think about - and not just thinking about them, we've decided - are two: One is in Samos to close this Center and build a new one, that's what we've said. And the second, which is important, is the decongestion of the islands. The decongestion of the islands, of course, is linked to the flows, but at some point we have to reach a point at zero, following the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey. What's point zero? Where it corresponds, grosso modo, the CYT's capacity with the people who will stay in it. That is the main issue. We've taken from Moria two thousand two hundred. In May there was more than seven thousand people. Right now that we're talking, there's something less than seven and a half thousand people and over the next few days, up to 15 months - I'm talking about today's morning report, the number is smaller, but I'm still, because the circumstances are difficult - we're going to get another thousand thirty of Moria. It's going to continue this program until we get where I said it. That's, I think, very basic. Thirdly, we do not think that our problem is on ship routes. In any case, we're in consultation with the Ministry of Shipping and, if necessary, I'm telling you more clearly, with Chios. In Chios there are hundreds of people who have been restricted, but we have chosen to decompress Moria first and then go to Chios. We've been getting people from Chios. Of course, every time I say numbers, I'm afraid of what you say. Because, you know, we are not only being watched by the people who are interested in the refugee or the world of the islands, we are being watched by the organised criminal teams of the traffickers, this is my main theme. Finally, in the summer, asylum decisions have increased by 30%, 50% of the performance, which was a great problem, and now we have codecision with the committees - that is, it was not their own proposal - two committees dealing only with the islands, and once the eight new committees, which will come on 15, have committees on Lesvos alone. Our aim - and I am closing with this, Mr President - is to complete the process quickly, because in a short time we are reaching out to all the people who are at the moment having the geographical limitation lifted. But we must complete the process so that the thousands I have said, which we will have the opportunity from mid-October and then take them to mainland Greece, are there. I want the part of a joint declaration from the European Union - Turkey to be completed with those who are not entitled to international protection and must be returned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u41	Thank you. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Minister for his detailed answer. The situation, anyway, is very difficult. You know that very well and the Ministry has been mobilised in the last few days and has tried to improve this situation, because the North Aegean Region has made relevant decisions, even with fines. I've got the various kinds of decisions and press releases that the region has made. The health situation in which reception and identification centres are located and the fact that ad hoc camps have been created and the lanes are going to the shallows and tributaries and destroy the aquifers, create situations which pose risks to public health on these islands. Overpopulation is too big. Some are counting on him, even in 50% of the permanent inhabitants of the island. We therefore understand that this creates a pressure on all the infrastructures of the islands. I am very pleased that first you have started to dismantle these procedures, so that you can reach the point at zero, which you have said. Of course, you told me that this would be in line with the principles of the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey, which is rather untrue, in the sense that this joint declaration explicitly prohibits dismantling and moving to the hinterland, precisely because there is a fear that flows as you have mentioned, and I have said so in my prototype. The critical issue is therefore the reception and identification centres. You said, perhaps in fear of political costs, that you will not create other reception and identification centres, but the international environment, Minister, is volatile. In the next few months we will have the definitive - although we cannot say anything definitive in Syria - settlement of the question of Indlib. Depending on how she goes, we can have an increase in flows from Syria to Turkey, an overpopulation that will obviously put pressure on the flows and towards our country. It is also positive on the other hand, not only to say negative, that any problems President Erdogan has with the United States mean that he emphasises the best relations with the European Union. It is therefore likely to use with enthusiasm the tool that we know is using it as a tool for foreign policy and pressure, that is to open up the flows, relax controls so that more comes to our islands. All these things must not be ignored. So the issue with reception and identification centres, how much we do not have and how much we do not have, you need to look into it according to the flows of the people we have, because the situation is uncontrolled, it actually creates a greater problem in local society and it is very easy, in my view, to explain that if it is necessary for conditions to be human, but above all in order not to cause problems of health or other kinds on the islands, other reception and identification centres must also be made, but above all, you must speed up these procedures. I am pleased that I have heard concrete steps and concrete results in relation to the implementation of the acceleration. I am not happy, because I have not heard from you - and I want to hear it, if you can, in your second language - specific objectives. How many days does the Ministry want to run the first degree examination? How many days does the Ministry want to keep the appeals under review so that we can find these people, too? You know that we have a problem, we are running out of procedures, we are giving or we are not giving asylum, and we cannot do it, because we cannot find it. This problem with inland transport will multiply as a problem, because you understand that in the interior it can find a hole from the border, it is much harder to find.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u43	I would ask you very much to complete this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u44	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is therefore a crucial issue for the asylum process to speed up and I expect the objectives. It is important that you are not dogmatic about reception and identification centres, so that there is enough to cover these people and do not cause problems in the rest of the local society. Finally, it is a crucial issue in the interim that there should be care to ensure that there are not just reception and identification centres but also permanent structures such as Kara Tepe, which have worked impeccably so far and obviously the decision not to give him one more of the thousands of two is important in this success. There must therefore be other centres so that we can meet the needs that our country must meet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u45	Please, Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u46	Mr Theochari, our aim is to complete the accelerated process in ninety days. That's our target. It doesn't mean that's happening right now. And when I say the accelerated procedure, I mean the first examination of asylum and to the extent that there is an appeal and the second examination. Now if the other guy goes to the Administrative Court, that's another story. That's the first. The second thing I would like to say is that the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey - provides for three, one would say outlets. One way out is to get the other asylum. The second is to be judged as vulnerable, that is to say, whether he is a minor or has some kind - let me call it a disease or a mental disorder, and the third is returns. So those we get, those who come to the mainland either have taken asylum or have been judged vulnerable. I have to say that most are vulnerable. There's another problem that you might not know. There are people who have taken asylum and we don't find them to serve the fact that they've taken asylum, not because they're gone, but because they're afraid of what the decision is most often. There is, in other words, this problem. I want to say one more thing. First of all, I, too, have taken as no responsibility for Moria's biological cleansing. Finally - I say it once again - this project has started and will of course be completed. At the same time, I say it is not a question of political costs. There is, of course, an issue of reaction from local communities, which fears that in this way everyone will stay on the islands if we rebuild reception and identification centres, etc. My personal conviction is that I prefer to speed up asylum procedures, rather than continue building reception and identification centres, which with the exception of Samos - I say again, but I am saying that I am simply identifying it in time I mean nothing - where after Mr Mitsotakis' visit, the next day, there have been two hundred and thirty-six people. I'm saying this to identify it in time, so we'll be okay with each other. Apart from Samos, where the CYT that was made was for seven hundred people and we will shut it down and build another one, the others are also large, that is three and a half thousand in Moya, a thousand two hundred in Chios and go by saying. Not to say about Kos now. So, in this direction, what do we do now to speed it up? First, we're forming mobile units to help decongested. Secondly, we are making more people and joining EASO in the process of vulnerability and final decisions. And thirdly, we do more committees focused on the islands. This is our greatest effort. However, to be clear with you and with the Greek Parliament, I say that in so far as there is no reallocation of weight in Europe, this process for the five first host countries (Spain, Malta, Italy, Greece, Cyprus) has close legs. You also know that a new major problem in Europe right now is Cyprus, which can have a small number - that is less than Moria has Cyprus - but which is unbearable for the country and its infrastructure. So, in this direction, we will continue to work.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u47	Tell us a few words about how the returns go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u48	Refunds are very little. It's more like voluntary returns. I saw Mr Grady from the UN High Commissioner for Immigration and Mr Vitorino, who is the new Director of the International Organisation for Immigration. This morning I met with Mr. Stylianides. With Mr Avramopoulos as Commissioner we have permanent communication, we meet every single one. Our aim is to increase voluntary returns on one hand. In fact, I spoke yesterday with the Minister of Afghanistan in Geneva about this matter. The second question is that the proceedings of the appeal committees should proceed more quickly in order to complete the refund procedure and in relation to the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey. I must say, of course - and I beg your pardon, Mr President - that refunds are the most difficult thing to do. All remember that in August 2018 I signed a management agreement with Mr Zehofer that those who arrive at the German-Austrian border and have EURODAC in Greece from 1-7-2017, can return to Greece for forty-eight hours. Since then, in other words close to two months, two have been returned. I cite the example with Germany to understand how difficult it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-05-S1-commons.u50	With the consent of the House at 10.52 minutes the sitting for the next Monday, 8 October, 2018, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
