ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Integration into Greek legislation of Directive 2014/89/EU "on the establishment of a framework for maritime spatial planning" and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 29 May 2018 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, single on the principle, articles and amendments. I think in procedural terms there is no problem. We agree with the recommendation from the Conference of Presidents, as I understand it. I can inform you that seven Members have spoken in the committee. It's probably a few more people here today. Two ministerial amendments have already been tabled, which you know about. I have been informed by the Secretary of the Ministerial Council, Mr Kalogeros, that another amendment will shortly be tabled, but that concerns the Ministry of Mr Stathakis. So it will be presented and supported by Mr Stathakis. The amendment by the Ministry of Interior will come to present it at 12 noon and 12.30 seconds, the Minister responsible, Mr Balafas. If we go as we should, I think we'll be done in the early afternoon. So we shall begin with the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Ilias Kamaero. Here, Mr. Kamaterre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today with the normal procedure - namely the meetings of the committee responsible - a bill which essentially deals with three issues, mainly maritime spatial planning, but also the issue of biofuels in the context of our obligations to reduce air pollutants and a whole chapter with amendments to the law that we have passed on to building.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u3	You can sign in, everyone you want. The system has been opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u4	Because, in the front of the bill, it says again that it is being done in the context of adaptation to European legislation, let me make a comment on this point. This is necessary and is done in all the countries of the European Union in order to adapt legislation to a single framework, which must govern the rules of operation of the European Union. But the country has the sad first to adapt to this legislation by legislation almost every time. What do I mean by that? We have always waited for European Union directives to legislate on things that we should have done for decades. So, for the first time, we are engaging the maritime and coastal regions, and that should have been a long time ago. What's marine spatial planning? Maritime spatial planning shall determine the distribution of relevant existing and future activities and uses in maritime areas and coastal zones. It analyses and organises human activities in maritime and coastal areas in order to achieve the composition of ecological, environmental, economic, social and cultural objectives. In this context, account should be taken of interactions between activities and uses, which may include, inter alia, aquaculture, fishing areas, facilities and infrastructure for research, sea transport routes, military exercise areas, protected raw materials mining areas, etc. Maritime spatial planning includes, firstly, the National Spatial Strategy for the Marine Space and Maritime Spatial Plans. In the European Union, the integrated maritime policy, which is like an umbrella to what we are planning now, is designed to follow marine spatial planning according to agreements and protocols signed, the law of the sea, etc., not to mention names and numbers due to time. We have a national spatial strategy for the marine area - that is what we are going to design - which sets out the strategic guidelines for maritime areas and coastal zones aimed at sustainable development and indicates the need for or not to draw up maritime spatial plans in individual territorial units that will follow. In other words, in order to make it clear, we are today voting for the framework of maritime spatial planning, on the basis of which regional planning plans will be followed. Maritime planning is of great importance to our country. I would stand out for three reasons: firstly, it is of geopolitical and geostrategic importance, because the country's maritime borders, which we know, not to mention the regions, give the image of a truly island and marine state. Secondly, there is the economic and development importance, the exploitation of resources, such as the regulation on shipping, maritime tourism, fisheries, hydrocarbons mining, marine scientific research and so on. Allow me, once again, to make a point: we are used to considering that land planning, but also in sea and coastal zones, is a tool that protects the environment and regulates certain uses. We must understand the general development importance it has as a tool. It is no coincidence that planning is guaranteed in constitutional terms. So far, however, there have been no spatial plans and, in my opinion, this has been done deliberately and not by weakness, because it has left a landscape of regulator in which those who wanted to serve some interests could move freely and operate on the basis of clientele relations. That was why and the need for various concepts of spatial planning at times were created. While development should be one and have an anthropocentric character anyway, due to the distortions that have begun to establish green growth, blue growth, sustainable development, as if there should be other than sustainable development. We have therefore given beyond this the last period and the national development plan, which we discussed last time in the House, an anthropocentric, social character, and we called it 'fair development', precisely to give the signal of the social sign. So this development cannot be done if there are no such tools, if there is no spatial planning, if there is no tariff, if there is no land register, if there are no urban and other arrangements. These are necessary tools if someone really wants to design a fair growth. A third element that matters to our country is the environmental and ecological importance, because integrated regulation and regulation, organisation of sea uses have the effect of protecting the marine environment's precious life and, at the same time, of protecting the wealthy resources for sustainable management. The aim is to avoid conflicts of use as far as possible but also to have synergies for multiplier benefits. I mentioned features in the committee's debate that we have examples because of the lack of these plans, such as the placement of fish farms where underwater parks, diving parks or continue to increase the tourist beds in areas that do not only help, but create further disinvestment problems. To finish with the issue of spatial planning, maritime urban planning, let me say about the transitional stage that is very important. The bill provides for the transitional provisions in the article, which I at least do not see often in a bill. Apart from what is envisaged each time for what decrees will apply until then or which are abolished, etc., it also refers to this period until these plans are drawn up, because they are until 31 March 2021. Until then, life has progressed, investment is being made, on the basis of what plans will be made and so on. This article provides that all the departments, all the ministries, which are drawing up a plan relating to this subject, or make certain decisions, are required to inform the Secretariat-General of the Ministry of the Environment, which is responsible and could not be otherwise, because it should be seen in a uniform way and should be supervised and planned by the Ministry of the Environment with the Secretariat-General, of course, through certain processes, which are provided for, through a number of collective, democratic procedures and with the involvement of all the relevant bodies. So this is very important and I think that the Secretariat-General will have to find out in the course of this, and from what has been said in the committees, because proposals have been heard by the bodies on what tools we can have or have or have to build, so that we do not have any distortions of spatial planning which will cause us problems in its implementation. For example, environmental studies and others have been mentioned. The bill deals in its second part with the issue of biofuels, the obligation we have as a country to reduce gas pollutants, as I said at the beginning. We add as a maximum 7% of biofuels to biofuels. That is why we have debated this in committee again. It is reasonable why the ceiling needs to be set, because the uses of land, farmed land in particular, must be carefully monitored, because they are either reduced by photovoltaics or other crops, and this is something that is valuable for our country and we must safeguard it. I would also add a parameter that biofuels are good for reducing pollutants and we are participating as a country in international conventions, but there are limits, if you like, because of the cost. In the last chapter on town planning regulations, which we had voted on on for building, amendments and improvements are being made, which, in my view, were very innovative on the part of the Ministry. It emerged from a dialogue between regional conferences held by the Ministry with skates that travelled across the country and discussed practical implementation with all actors, how it progressed, where there were problems in the bill, which we had voted on. That's enough. It is very important that, after consultation and in the context of the implementation of the island policy, an observatory is also set up in Rhodes, and only every region is foreseen in the capital. There are also arrangements for certain decisions that would be made by the Ministry. There is a relative decentralisation to be taken from the regions, as well as from the date issue, and let me end by commenting on this matter for some colleagues who have raised the question of the continued extension of the arbitrary system, that we are legalising arbitrary practices, etc. So let me say that the bill that we voted on before and the amendments that are now coming have another philosophy. We do not want it to work like this, that is to say, to have a collective logic, but to prevent the creation of an arbitrary generation, and that is why incentives are also being given. As far as the dates and extension are concerned, the total date, ladies and gentlemen, which we voted on in the previous bill does not change. The extension is given in the first half - because it provides for every six months - and bonuses are given to those who would run earlier to make their statement. In the first half of the year, therefore, a 20% discount is given. This has been considered necessary for technical reasons and has also been discussed with the technicians until they are ready. Let me finish with a reference to an amendment. I will speak only about it, because the others will then be given the opportunity. Here too, we could have a lot of talk about the incentives given - and they must be given - to get a class into construction and public spaces. I am also addressing Mr Amyras, where there is a particular problem. However, these arrangements are made in the direction of motivating them to adapt their structures or to demolify them according to studies. That is why we also give the municipalities the obligation to prepare studies, to tell them how to do so and if they comply, then there will be incentives. Otherwise, the fines have also been severed by the law that we have previously imposed. Therefore, every amendment and every proposal to introduce a class of construction - pergolas and all - into public spaces is not in a position to legitimise them, but to regulate them. Because what is now happening, ladies and gentlemen, is happening in a town chaos. And it's not just a question of control, it's also ambiguities that exist in the legislation, so all these arrangements that we're going to do now are in this direction. If we need an opportunity, we will have a special debate then on this subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u5	Going down from the Step, the registration system will be closed. Those of you who are still in a position to sign up. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Christos Bukokouros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the incorporation of European Directive 89/2014 establishing a framework for maritime spatial planning. The importance of this legislation lies in the fact that Greece is inextricably linked to the sea, historically, culturally, economically, geostrategically and socially. The connection between our country and the sea is self-proof. We don't have to say any more. While, therefore, our country should be among the first countries to adopt an integrated maritime planning policy with national objectives and objectives, the Government with two whole years' delay brings this directive, which gained binding force in September 2016. This in very simple terms means that it has limited the time possibilities for planning national maritime spatial planning. Of course, we have also been delayed in incorporating directives in the past. The difference with this directive, apart from its importance for Greece, is also the obligation to implement spatial planning by March 2021. The government with its uncertainty has limited planning and implementation time. In my view, it is doubtful whether we will be able to complete the plan by March 2021. The second point I make is that, with regard to maritime planning, Greece is distinguished by the number of its particular features. Thus, the adoption of horizontal and unprocessed sea policies can be of vital economic interest to the country. The very nature of the directive that we are incorporating today enables Member States to make the necessary adjustments, in accordance with their specific features. Unfortunately, the lack of strategic planning and the deterioration of the importance of the timetables, as well as the lack of care for the strong and coordinated link to regional development, multiply the risks that I have mentioned. In fact, in committee, the Minister responsible informed the Commission that he will soon also incorporate the Barcelona Protocol on the integrated management of coastal areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Bukkaro, let me have a break for a few seconds, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd Petroupoli Municipal School. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Buquoir, go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u8	So I keep going. I said that the Minister responsible informed us that he would also bring the Barcelona Protocol into integration. This is a protocol, ladies and gentlemen, which literally brings the bottom to the integrated management of the coastal zone. It was signed by the Member States in 2010 and so far it has not been incorporated, many European countries have not adopted it. I mean, that adopting unprocessed directives or protocols, which we have not assessed, is a horizontal policy. In any case, Greece is a special country on maritime policy issues. I would like to remind you that this is the country with the longest coastline in Europe, after Norway. It has sixteen thousand kilometres of coastline. Our country, Mr Minister, is a multi-one country with thousands of islands and islands and the application of horizontal and unprocessed policies can affect our vital interests. That is what we say, as an observation. After all, European directives give directions. They're not unparalleled orders. In other words, marine spatial planning is not a memorandum. It is an obligation and an opportunity, especially for Greece. In order not to exaggerate, however, today we are not discussing marine spatial planning. We are discussing the creation of a legal and administrative'shells' in which marine spatial planning will be planned. However, if the framework that we are discussing today proves to be incomplete, we will lead to fragmentary planning and will lose development and environmental opportunities for the country. As we had the opportunity to point out to the committee, the government made two basic choices with this bill. Firstly, to designate the Minister himself through the General Secretariat of Spatial Planning and Urban Environment, which is a subject to the Minister for the Environment. Secondly, it decided to integrate coastal zone management into maritime spatial planning. There is no doubt that these are political options which will be judged both in their design and in their outcome. We have proposed to you the multi-level government involvement in marine spatial planning, as is shown in most cases by international experience, but also by the current juncture, Minister, with geopolitical tensions in the wider region of the south-eastern Mediterranean, the need to intervene in island policy, the management of migratory flows and many other important issues. We have proposed inter-ministerial and intra-ministerial cooperation with a simultaneous upgrading of the administrative structures in order to meet their difficult task and, above all, to avoid the fragmentation observed in land planning which leads to necessary and forced revisions. As far as the coastal zone is concerned, it has been demonstrated by the committee meeting during the drafting of the bill that there are two scientific views. The one you selected is the integration, and the selection of the successive design could also be made, so that the coastal zone is managed as a bridge tool between land and maritime spatial planning. However, as the Minister replied, someone has to decide and, in any case, the House will have the information and the Ministerial Council will approve the Secretariat-General. Theoretically, that's right. But the Ministerial Council, Mr Minister, will approve what the Secretariat-General will propose to him. You refer to all the specific issues, i.e. the participation of stakeholders, the relevant ministries, in consultation. We have proposed to you the involvement of other bodies, particularly university institutions with experience and special spatial planning departments, but also of the relevant ministries, not at the level of consultation, but at the level of planning, even within the framework of the General Secretariat of Spatial Planning and Urban Environment. Rather, in view of the government's change in the upcoming elections, we will need to improve certain things and above all we will need to catch up with the timetables. To illustrate the importance of the previous remarks, it is sufficient to mention that the very content of the directive touches a number of areas of particular importance to the Greek economy, for the very future of the country, let me say. For example, mining of mineral resources and inert materials, port facilities, coastal structures, marine tourism, divestment tourism, tourism in ancient antiquities, fisheries, maritime transport, the impact of tourist pressures on the coastal zone, environmental issues, climate change and many other critical issues for a country like Greece, with 80% of the population living in the coastal zone, called 10 km, while its industrial production at 90% is located in the same zone. Therefore, what kind of policies will be developed and how these will be designed for these issues are of the utmost importance and existential nature for the country's future. We cannot, of course, disagree with the incorporation of the European directive. What we disagree with is the lack of strategic planning by the government of such issues and the deterioration it makes them. I shall mention a typical example. In the holistic programme presented by the Minister of Finance to the Ministerial Council, it is stated that the special spatial planning plans will be designed for tourism, which primarily touches the marine design in 2019. The road landfill of mineral resources that touches not only the issue of hydrocarbons, but also other issues of the sea will be given in 2020. The special landfill for fish crops that is a great sector for the Greek economy - we are second in the world - will be given in 2021. In our observation that at the beginning of 2021 our deadline for the completion of the country's maritime spatial planning expires and there will be no time for regional plans to take into account the last level of spatial planning in order to come and lock up with national and specific planning, the Minister has replied that all this will be prepared and planned at the same time. However, this requires excellent organisation, absolute timing and excellent coordination, which, Minister, is not renowned for by your Government. For the sloppiness...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u9	SYRIZA...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u10	Look, I want to talk to evidence. If there was coordination, there would be no need for fifty legislative improvements in the law on spatial planning, which was passed in 2017, and continuous extensions for forest maps, which have led thousands of farmers to despair. If your legislation were correct, it would not be necessary, Minister, for this industry of amendments, legislative improvements, new provisions, 'cut, sew, laundry, work not to miss you'. That's not what we call it. When you say that for fish farms, the special landfill will be given in 2021, when our deadline expires, which is absolutely binding and you say that everything will be drawn up at the same time, we understand what will happen. We don't have to say any more. Mr Minister, I would say that we agree with the objectives set by the directive. We have considerable reservations about some articles and, above all, about Article 12. You see what happens in the Eastern Mediterranean. Article 12 is what obliges us to establish an institutional framework for cooperation with third countries. Here they come to the front line, mainly Turkey and, secondly, Albania. You didn't give us the necessary information. We have great reservations about the management of this issue at the level. As you can see, it cannot be done at the level of the Secretariat-General for Spatial Planning and Urban Environment. In Article 14, our disagreements with the competent authority are structural. We asked for other things. There are two logics. I'll take it. As for the coastal zone, there are two logics. For the options you have told us that someone has to decide, that the House will be informed, that the Ministerial Council will be approved. I spoke about these before. We would like to involve other crews. In the second part of the draft law on biofuels only, the incorporation of directives and the binding obligations for the country. As far as Article 19 is concerned, I told you that one sector, that of biofuel production, is struggling. The wording that will be included in the blending of diesel with biodiesel 'up to 7%' has created a major disruption in a sector that is purely Greek and provides an annual income to twenty thousand farmers of 80 million euros with fully transparent procedures, because it is contractual agriculture, which is controlled through OPECE. What SYRIZA colleagues have said is that we need to cultivate food to meet the nutritional needs of the population are completely wasteful arguments because, Minister, firstly, the land on which energy plants are cultivated is of low productivity, but even if it is high productivity and you ask farmers, they will tell you that the rotation of crops is one of the main factors that leads to the safeguarding of productivity and do not weaken the land. We proposed something very specific, Minister. Put, for example, from 6.9% to 7.1%. So you also cover biofuel producers and the market and you do not give the right not to you tomorrow, but to another minister, to another higher chemistry council to say that 5% is enough. I think that makes sense if you define it. Neither ‘to’ nor ‘the upper’ nor ‘the lower’. Open the lace from a percentage to another percentage. From 6.9% to 7.1% are fine. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President. With regard to Rule 34, I have told you that it shows the incomplete way you legislate. The 2017 Spatial Law, which was discussed and passed six months ago, needs fifty improvements. We understand the requests of the technical world, as we also understand that during real estate transfers there will be issues which have not been identified that corrections and improvements need to be made. We'll see it in detail. Furthermore, Minister, I must point out that you are bringing a number of amendments to this bill. If I'm not mistaken, they've already reached thirteen. In fact, I wonder why the amendment that the Deputy Minister informed the committees of the first day has not yet been tabled. Minister, it's been five days. You have informed us about the forest maps through your Deputy that you will bring the amendment. What's your problem? Does the lack of legislation on forest maps appear to be apparent from the drafting of this amendment? Is the problems they have created more than they have solved? You welcome the increase in posts to a significant extent, but, Minister, we are not here to legislate simply to legislate. Legislation must solve problems and lead to growth. Nor are we here to write a few timetables on some holistic projects, which are never respected. Legislation for legislating and timelines to complete some theoretical plans are not our concern. In conclusion, in principle, we will vote for the bill but we will vote against some of the articles that I mentioned before. For the amendments that you have put before you in this bill, we are extremely sceptical and will see you then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u11	With Mr Arvanitides' permission, I would like to give the floor for five minutes to Mr Balafa to present the amendment from the Ministry of the Interior, so that both speakers and speakers can take into account exactly what it contains. Here, Mr Balafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am going to refer to Amendment No 1603/194, which contains two articles. You know that we recently discussed a bill from the Ministry of Migration Policy. This amendment, because we had not made sure that it was given time, has therefore been withdrawn and we are now bringing it within the time limits allowed, and so on. There are two articles in this provision that we are proposing. The first article concerns the adjustment and introduction of infringements, fees and fines. You know that this is paradoxical, in order to obtain residence permits and other relevant documents, concerning legal immigrants who are in our country and who are nationals of third countries. The necessary adaptations to Greek legislation are, therefore, being promoted following the start of a process of official procedure, provided for by the European Union, for a delay, a breach on the part of Greece. So there was a warning letter. These provisions are being promoted in order to remove this difference and the delay that has arisen. It concerns, as I have said again, fees imposed on the issue of residence permits under specific directives - I stress this - to which we must adapt. In particular, it is considered that an amount of EUR 400 for the issue of a residence permit for long-term residents, as well as sums ranging between EUR 150 and EUR 450 for the issue of a single permit, as they are called, and other permits for family reunification, according to the European Commission's rationale, do not comply with the principle of proportionality, namely the relationship between the amount of the infringement and the duration of the licence, and are an obstacle, in the committee's opinion, to the exercise of the relevant rights of third-country citizens in the context of the respective Directives. The regulation we are promoting redesigns the system of infringements, which are collected for the submission of applications for residence permits and for the renewal of residence permits for citizens of third countries, taking into account both the need to adapt to the law of the European Union and the need to maintain the economic equilibrium of the system of granting these residence permits. In particular, the amount of offenders shall be reduced by a number of categories of residence permits issued under European Union directives. The margins there to move differently, as you can see, are virtually nil. The chosen option disconnects the amount of the offence from the period of validity of the residence permit with a single paradox of EUR 150, irrespective of the duration of the residence permits issued on the basis of the above European Union directives. In order to redefine the level of the offence, two main factors, as is the case with the arguments of the European Court of Justice, namely the financial burden on the applicant third-country national and the actual costs of handling applications for residence permits, as well as the fees for issuing such documents to citizens of our country or citizens of the European Union. Therefore, minimum national monthly earnings, EUR 683 and EUR 683 were used as benchmarks, according to EUROSTAT data, as well as the amount needed to issue a passport. The amount of the offenders in other Member States has also been examined for such residence permits issued in accordance with these Directives. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] You can understand that, as we talk about a reduction in misconduct, there will be a loss of revenue. In order to limit this loss of revenue to a certain extent the State budget to the same draft provisions we are currently bringing you, to an increase in the amount of infringements in certain categories of national permits, as we call them, to a certain extent - they concern, in particular, exceptional reasons - they are not mentioned or subject to the European Union directives, as well as to fines - and at the same time new fees are introduced, paradoxically at stages of the authorisation procedure. We understand that, based on the fact that the well-known Migration Code, i.e. the Code of Migration and Social Integration, the well-known 2014 law codified by this law, was considered appropriate to amend and supplement the code, i.e. Law 4251 of 2014, with what we mentioned, where necessary, in order to achieve unity and legal certainty in order to facilitate any further future codification. At the same time - that goes without saying - after the vote, which I hope will take place, the proposed regulation will be immediately notified to the European Commission of this legislation in order to bring an end to the formal infringement procedure, a warning against Greece. Then let me say a few more words with reference to specific paragraphs. As I told you, there are two articles that will take the number depending on the total numbering of the law. The first article establishes what I mentioned earlier, the single paradox at 150 euros, that is, as a rule, the reduction, with a number of categories of residence permits which occupy the vast majority of the annual residence permits issued in our country. They're residence permits for family members.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u13	It is written in the amendment, Mr Minister. Don't repeat it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u14	There are a number of categories of residence permits, which you will see, which are subject to this reduction, as I have said. This is the one article. Let's go to the second article of the amendment I mentioned to you. This amendment solves a chronic problem facing children from third-country citizens who, up to the eighth year of their age, are insured by one of their parents, after their adulthood when renewing their residence permit, either for studies or as a second-generation residence permit, stop their insurance, even when the conditions for their insurance are met, according to the Greek data, according to Greek laws. In order to remove this injustice, I would say, and the irresponsible treatment of the problem is proposed a provision which continues, beyond the eighteenth year, these children, these young people, to be insured - for insurance, we are talking - as indirect members of the parent's insurance body. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u15	The amendment that I have seen is one, so it will be an article. I say it because you said twice about two articles. It is an amendment with two paragraphs. Either you have to break it into two amendments or otherwise it will be an article with two paragraphs. It can't be two articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u16	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u18	About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u19	It is about the fact that we need to know which of the parliamentary amendments, which have been tabled, will be accepted by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u20	Mr Javarra, I have contacted the Minister when he comes to the Step for his speech and speaks of the amendments. In other words, before you take the floor, you will have a picture of what is being accepted and what is not being done. We are talking about the parliamentary amendments now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u21	That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u22	You will have the Members of Parliament and the speakers informed in good time, not the speakers and the rapporteurs will have. But the rest of them will be up-to-date in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u24	What do you want, Mr. Amyras?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u25	Let me ask the Minister something about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u26	Here, Mr Amyras, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask the following clarification: The expenditure caused to the EEAS by the continuation of the insurance of children from third countries, after adulthood, what is it? That's the first. And the second thing I want to say to you is that there is a slight contradiction in the case of (d) the obligation to pay an exceptional amount of EUR 100 for examining an application for a residence permit or for a renewal of a humanitarian residence permit: in the case of health, force majeure, etc. There is a contradiction. When there is a matter of health or a very serious reason, you say that for humanitarian reasons we impose the paradox. You'd better get out or change that wording. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u28	Here you go, Mr Balafa, for two minutes, and then we're in the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u29	The first was my omission. I repeat that the reduction provided for in the provision is imposed in accordance with the European Union directives. Because we have so far not kept it, we have assumed - let us say - this warning letter. I would therefore say that there will be a reduction. We're making an increase in some of the others. And in total we will have from 48 million to 34 million, about 14 million cuts in revenue from the paradoxes. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u30	Okay, I just mentioned it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u31	On the other hand, I don't think there's any contradiction. It's visual.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u32	Okay. I am no longer interrupting Mr Arvanitides, whom I apologise for the delay. Until Mr Arvanitides climbs to Vima, I would like to inform the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed of the history of the building, thirty three students and students and four escorts from the Salamis Municipal School of Vineyards. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Arvanitides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the juncture brought it today, on World Environment Day, to discuss an important bill on the sustainable development of the country, as maritime areas and coastal areas are areas where the various activities that are located there, such as tourism, energy, transport, fisheries, research, environmental protection, are activities that can bring about a dynamic and sustainable development, provided that they do not exercise unreservedly and collisionally. Also the biofuel regulations, which are coming to meet our delay in this area, contribute to the development of sustainable development targets. Today, then, World Environment Day, the whole world and, above all, Europe is sending out an action message for the environment, for combating climate change and for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. But what has the current government done for the sustainable development of the country, 'the first time left', and 'the first time ecologically', so that we do not forget the involvement of economists in government patterns? Really, Minister, what does Greece do for the last three years? Allow me, then, to take a small account of the issues we are discussing today, with three examples of governmental flaw and failure. Firstly, greenhouse gas emissions. Although the economic crisis generally leads to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, in 2015-2016 and in the recession emissions increased. This is a global originality. Secondly, renewable energy sources. Renewable energy sources in relation to the 2020 target for 18% in final energy consumption and while already in 2014 we have been at 15.3%, in the last three years we have had zero growth and the prices of investment in photovoltaic and wind energy equipment have been drastically reduced over this three-year period. As soon as the government is running down to launch procedures for new projects and it is unknown when we will see concrete results. With regard to energy savings, which should be the first priority for the activation of the economy and the creation of new jobs in the multitude manufacturing industry, the results of the "EXOCONOLOGY" are tragic. Based on the latest energy efficiency action plans, it is estimated that by 2020 only 65% of the overall energy savings target will be achieved. "Three lost years," could be the title. This is also evidenced by the delays in the transposition of the current directives, which have been lost in time. Since 18 September 2016, the 2014/89 Directive should have been incorporated, first, with the consultation of ending in 2016, while the Biofuels Directives had a deadline of transposition of mid 2015/652 in April 2017, and 2015/15 on 10 September 2017. This delay and it costs and takes us back. The timetables become suffocating and, as always, we risk not catching them. Nevertheless, Minister, we call 'yes' at the outset of the bill, despite delays and partial failures. Let us not listen again to the government's argument that in 2021 all of a sudden, all of this will have been done - logbooks, forest maps, spatial planning, energy objectives - all because you are bringing such bills to the House, the SYRIZA - ANEL bills. And to come to today's bill, which is finally formed into a multi-legislative broom - common tactics now - on various environmental and energy issues, you should, Minister, perhaps change the title. It does not mean a draft law entitled "Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/89/EU" which establishes a framework for maritime spatial planning and other provisions", when the incorporation of the European Maritime Spatial Planning Directive is only six pages, while the incorporation of the Biofuels Directives, arbitrary construction, the IPPC gas pipeline and how many other articles are added today with the amendments, occupy over a hundred pages. Impressive new practice of democratic consultation, discussion and legislation! The procedure of the late government - Parliamentary amendments on matters that should have been passed by the General Accounting Office is another negative point of reference in the years of your term of office, but, Minister, you should finally explain to us what you are accepting - Mr Javaras put it - and why, at least for what reason and for what reason, at the very least, we have a real view of what they are trying to regulate with parliamentary amendments. I would like to stand up and insist, Minister, on six points which, even now, you may have to see in the bill again. The first concerns the question of the application of the rules of the bill to coastal zones and the EEZ. In the former, there is a risk that there will be any involvement in the implementation of maritime spatial planning and I insist that there is no mention of the EEZ. The second concerns the rapid promotion of the adoption of the national spatial strategy, with a view to the adoption of the national spatial strategy for the marine area. The third relates to the establishment of a wider institution, which will have decisive competence for maritime planning, as proposed by bodies in their hearing and will not be the Minister or a male competent authority to decide, in accordance with Article 14. The fourth issue concerns the minimum contribution of the regulations that you bring to biofuels in trying to achieve the transport RES targets. I'm asking you again, Minister, to tell us what percentage you're counting on. You also gave us no response to the promotion of electricity. There is also the issue of the 7% limit and you have mentioned that it is the highest technical limit on biodiesel in diesel and that it cannot go any further. In any case, accept the proposal to improve the wording to 'at least 7%', so as to reject the industry's concerns. Minister, we must also see the better use of raw materials and residues from crops in biomass in an area that is particularly backwards. The fifth issue is to ensure that new types of biofuels do not be'mixed' fuels - biofuels. The aim should be both environmental protection by reducing gas emissions and the safe fuels available to citizens. Think again, too, of the issue of taxes and taxes on fuels, the issue of the standard rule, a wall to be established when prices "go" particularly upwards. It is an issue that you need to see, because in the budget values are calculated rather than percentages. If prices are going upwards at some point, we are over-taxing. Why would we do that? The point is to cover the target you have set in the budget numerically. So you need to see this immediately, because the burdens in particular lately are extremely high. The sixth issue concerns the regulations of Article 34 on arbitrary matters and you must look at it carefully. You need to see the points of the report from the Scientific Council of Parliament about clarifications and clarifications in the formalities, so that problems do not arise subsequently. At the same time as all the above, I would like to stress, Minister, that the main issue is not just the formal incorporation of the directives, but is their essential application both for maritime planning and for biofuels. This means, therefore, that, in particular, in the field of maritime planning, we should enter as a country in the direction of proper and harmonious application of what we are voting on here today and as far as the regulatory acts are concerned, taking into account the peculiarities and specificities of the Greek islands' seaside space. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not mean a country like ours, which has the third largest coastline in Europe after Norway and Russia and the eleventh in the world, that we have left so far behind when we are even deciding to apply coastal zones in our maritime spatial planning. You've delayed dangerously. Apply, at least, speedily and innovatively, by adopting proposals that we have made to you, a progressive policy on maritime planning, to justify the title of the bill. It is not worth the image of our country - a country - of the sea, because Greece is a sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr Arvanitides. We proceed with the special speaker from the Golden Dawn, Mr. Ilias Panagiotaro. Here, Mr. Panayotare, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin with the bill, we want to expressly condemn the left-wing murder or terrorist action taken against the police in Thessaloniki about three days ago, an action that was not random, but an organised plan. One team locked up the vehicle while another team flew and flew dozens of molotovs. Of course, we did not see the officers of the agency, the colleagues of the police who went to burn alive, to show the same zeal, who showed the bins that Boutaris heard. And from the many identities of indignant citizens of Thessaloniki, Pontius and others, we haven't seen anything happening yet with this murder attack. I would also like to make a quick comment on the Macedonian, the developments, in this cradle, where Greek citizens now put their hopes to the dynamic mobilisations that they will make themselves, but also to the uncompromising attitude of the Skopje. Because here our people have given land and water to the issue of the name of the neighbouring country, a form which, no matter what happens, will always have a totalitarian attitude to our country. We have heard various unscrupulous ones, such as the former Minister, Mr. Chironis, who said that Paul Melas was fighting with the Skopje against the Bulgarians - incredible things! - about ten years after he was glorified in the battlefield. He doesn't know what's going on with him. We have heard a number of other of the dictators of the coup d'état. We hear a lot which, of course, does not share with the vast majority of the Greek people. Let us recall - we will remind you in general - one of the things Thucydides says, this great historian: "The traitor is not only the one who reveals the secrets of the patronage to the enemies, but he is also the one who, while he holds a public office, does not take the necessary steps to improve the standard of living of the people on whom he is dominating". Of course, here we could add, and the various babies who hold state positions and what they say expose the country in many ways. Mr Tsipras said yesterday - and he is preparing, because they are bringing it slowly - that no matter what happens he should be authorized by the House. Wrong, Mr. Tsipras. A very serious national issue, which you know very well that the vast majority of Greek citizens are opposed, should be authorized not by the House of Speakers, but by the Greek people with a referendum. Dare, let's see how many agree and how many disagree with you. And really, what does Mr. Burden say about all this? Because there are online everywhere, what he said a while ago about this very serious issue. Of course the question is, if it ever comes on that day of the name of Skopje, where is it? Which country on the planet will have gone to hide - in or out of import - with some misguided excuse. In the bill, you brought a bill that, while the title says “Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/89/EU “near establishing a framework for maritime spatial planning” and other provisions”, on the substance the other provisions deal with some issues relating to biodiesel, but also some issues of urban interest. On the substance of the matter are three bills in one. The truth is that at the hearing of the adoption of the framework law on maritime spatial planning, we were also very positive, as an important step was taken to establish a framework for the proper management of water and the development of activities with respect for the environment. This is, of course, theoretical because, in practice, this bill is declarable. The way in which they are being implemented is critical, as we have said, as we have pointed out in other incorporations of European directives. It is also one of the cases where the directive is not being transposed this time, and there seems to be a blurred landscape on the issues that this design will resolve. Of course, it is worth commenting that in Greece, a country that is inextricably connected to the sea, located at a key point on the map, with rich naval history, the political leaderships of the last decades considered that we do not need a strategic maritime spatial planning. And to be honest, neither does the present government think it is important. It is simply a matter of putting the legislative framework in place because of a European directive. It may not be very much to worry about, but we should have completed the plan in the first quarter of 2021, otherwise the 'cambanes' will start falling, and we will also have to pay. And it's certain that we won't have time until the first quarter of 2021 to have done anything. I wish you had taken some action, but unfortunately you have done nothing. This could only be done if there was a proper programming, tailored to the data timetables, and if the rulers in their patron were ready to plan, which would simply amend. If that happens, we'd love to see their design. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case. You chose in 2016 to consider the draft law "Sustainable planning - Sustainable development", without then including maritime spatial planning, despite the fact that consultation on the subject had already ended. The then special speaker of the Golden Dawn pointed it out. He said: "It is not possible to talk about spatial or spatial planning, without including marine spatial planning. At first sight, you may think that the object of marine spatial planning is only maritime activities and activities in coastal waters, but ground activities have a direct impact on maritime areas and must be taken into account. Spatial planning should not be studied separately from the marine environment, but should be considered at the same time and the marine environment should be introduced on distinct terms in the existing design framework. We know that maritime spatial planning was in consultation, which ended days ago and we will expect it to come to a debate in the House. We note, however, that in order for an integrated approach and a formulated policy, we should see them together." This was said by the special speaker of the Golden Dawn in 2016 and was extremely timely and prophetic. I am also returning to this view, therefore, because marine spatial planning is not independent of your land and your practices so far, in the end the sea is not part of the strategic spatial planning as defined in Law 4269/2014, nor is it included in Law 4447/2016. At this point I would like to point out that the statutory 4447 National Spatial Planning Council has not yet been activated. It is therefore clear that there is no national spatial strategy. Not that, as you put it, this strategy would really be a national one, since you are setting out that this strategy depends on the economic circumstances of the period in question and the main guidelines will be given by the directorate of the Brussels oligarchy. No progress has been made for two years. So at the moment there is no progress, and so we can be sure that this important issue of maritime spatial planning will be left on paper and there will be no implementation plan adapted to the real circumstances. After all, the government has shown that it fails to create a climate of confidence both abroad and internally and that the dialogues that are clearly serving interests contrary to national interests. So far there may be no institutional framework for maritime spatial planning, but only a number of diverse provisions on the protection of the natural environment, with all the shortcomings that characterize them, but pilot projects have also been developed for the acquisition of experience and the development of techniques, such as the AGRIPLANT programme, as well as various other programmes. There is therefore a database for data search and digitisation and we are therefore not starting from scratch. Of course, there should be a special mention here - we believe that this is also the question of all this bill - on the Exclusive Economic Zone, with the establishment of an AEZ declaration. The maritime spatial planning is part of the integrated maritime policy of the European Union, as rightly stated in the explanatory statement. If we want to talk about an integrated maritime policy - and we are not talking about the European Union, but at national level - then we should automatically address the huge issue of the EEZ. As mentioned, it is an effective cross-sectoral and cross-border planning of maritime waters, but without prejudice to the demarcation and demarcation of maritime zones, in accordance with the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. Sadly, however, we have not declared the Greek EEZ and at the same time remain inactive and sufficient to play the role of spectators of the declaration and demarcations of the EEZ of the countries of the eastern Mediterranean. The EEZ is not a purely foreign policy issue, but it is part of the wider context of economic development in the fisheries, hydrocarbons, Renewable Energy Sources, environmental protection, and so by means of the declaration we could draw up more and more comprehensively the country's maritime spatial policy. If we want to find out what is happening at European level, then we must take into account the example of other countries such as Belgium, France, Portugal, which have a recognised EEZ and which is included in the relevant scope of maritime spatial planning. So our country needs an integrated maritime policy that does not have it, because you have been and are skeptical and because you are already afraid to take important steps in this direction and at last implement international law. As long as we do not declare EEZ, not only can we exercise our sovereign rights, but neither can we create marine spatial planning that will contribute to the economic development of the country and the protection of the marine environment. The European Union promotes 'blue' development and integrated maritime governance. But we, as a country, must set the framework and conditions for integrated management of the altar and coastal zones, as well as the overall sustainable development strategy, while protecting national interests. The second part of the draft law incorporates several directives on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels, amendments and the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, as well as laying down methods of calculation and reporting requirements, in accordance with the European Parliament directives on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels. In short, new advanced biofuels which are not produced from edible crops will be used to increase their consumption by 2020 and the sustainability criteria for biofuels and bioliquids will be respected and an obligation to mix petrol with biofuels is laid down, in particular with such bioethanol or bioethers, produced from organic alcohols starting in 2019. A very general observation on the issue of electricity production and combustion of bioliquids: It is certain that domestic production of vegetable oils cannot meet the requirements of raw materials. It goes without saying, therefore, that imports of vegetable oils from third countries, which will be burned in our country for the next twenty years, should take place. We understand that the use of bioliquids is not banned, since they are produced from biomass. Moreover, the use of vegetable oils as an alternative renewable fuel to oil competitive was proposed in the early 1980s. It does not, however, mean that they do not produce pollutants hazardous to human health and degrade the environment. With regard to compulsory combustion of bioethanol, from 1-1-2019, for some a year already experts have pointed out the weaknesses in the implementation of these directives, which should have been incorporated since April 2017. The positive is that the mixture can be used by all engines without any conversion needed. The negative, however, is that we will see the price of gasoline, which has already risen and reached the god, rising vertically, since the biological part is more expensive than the oil and according to estimates, the price is expected to double. It should be noted that Greece currently holds the sixth world-wide position among 167 countries on fuel prices, Greece affected by the memoranda, the accuracy, unemployment, of all these problems and that the government, with statements by the Minister two to three days ago, said that there is no question of reducing the tax to keep the rising price of petrol and oil on hold. The rise rally is due not only to the global rise in oil prices due to international developments in the Middle East, Iran and elsewhere, but also to the great tax burden imposed by our country's Memorandum Governments. It also does not guarantee our energy independence, since no country in the European Union produces bioethanol to meet 100% of its needs. Then we will be called upon to import from third countries, such as Brazil. There is therefore a general finding that, in any case, our country is dependent on imported liquid fuels, and that is exactly where we should aim to gain our energy autonomy and independence. Of course, we must add the intensive effort that is being made - slowly lacking - by combating smuggling. As much as fuels will be expensive, as much as smuggling will be blossom, no matter how much you're trying. In the third and last part, which deals with urban issues, these are various interventions in previous No 4495/2017. For example, building permits, allegedly, are another point which has made us an impression, since many cases of arbitrary circumventing in many cases the decisions of justice and the abolition of the EUR 25 000 budget limit for the approval of small-scale construction work are now legitimised. We see that this third part probably has more to do with rhysphetological and electoral provisions than with matters of substance. In conclusion, this bill consists of three different, regardless of each other, which could be discussed separately, because it is all three serious, and the first and second, but also the third. The articles will be taken up because we see that changes will certainly take place with all these amendments, which we still do not know which amendments will be adopted and which will not be adopted. We have, of course, heard Mr Balafa speak of an amendment to do, says, with legal immigrants and various facilities. In any case, whatever you do for immigrants, as well as the 5 million euros that Mr Voutsi promised will be given from Parliament's budget to the Ministry of Migration Policy and other issues, they only have to do with improving the conditions of illegal immigrants and the minimum refugees. But because, as you can see, all this is changing throughout Europe, there will probably soon be changes in our country as regards the most positive for Greeks and the negative for the hordes of illegal immigrants. Finishing on Wednesday's rally, Golden Dawn invites all Greeks with a Greek flag to go to all the rallys. Those who do not do well have the alternative to go Saturday to gay shame, swing their own flags and do after comparisons, see on one hand the Greeks, the family, the Christians, the patriots, and on the other the unwilling ones, the mediated bodies of Soros and all those who want to dismantle morals. As for the New Democracy, the turf will certainly be on both digits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u36	We continue with Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, a speaker from the Communist Party of Greece. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u37	Today is the World Environment Day. I do not know, Minister, if your Ministry is celebrating, the Ministry of the Environment, but many of them are the so-called environmental declarations, as are some articles in the bill and amendments. However, there is nothing to hide that this sector is developing because it ensures high profitability in large business groups and is premiumed with warm state money. This also applies to Europe as well as to Greece. Antagonism and hypocrisy in environmental crowns, international associations of capital, monopolistic groups and their states are great, although they are the main responsible for the acute environmental problems. At the same time, the environment is at the forefront of multinationals, on the one hand as a tank of uncontrolled extraction of raw materials, the disposal of their waste - that is, they destroy the environment in the hunting of profits - and, on the other hand, as another profitable investment sector. The examples are many. What would anyone want to do first? The counterfeiting of pollutants by VOLKSWAGEN, which, of course, came out 'in the air', was due to competition between monopolies? But in our country too, the amosomia has been intense for several repetitive days in Drapetsonas, Keratini and the wider region of Piraeus by certain big companies in the area of Lipamata, which are covered by the government and are exacerbated by pollutants and which add to the already burdensome environmental situation that is becoming unbearable and dangerous. Children in school while the weather is warm can't get to the break, precisely because of this depressive situation. But also in Perama, a hundred and forty tanks of oil, "cassettes - bombs" names them the people, and with a capacity of more than a hundred fifty thousand cubic metres are ready to reopen next to schools and within a residential area despite intense protests and mobilisation of residents, students, teachers, parents, trade unions, cultural clubs etc. This is the policy of the fair development of the government and of the region, which put forward and strengthen the needs and profits of business groups with warm money while at the same time fighting with their political labour, popular rights, tanning their lives in the people's neighborhoods! Your fair development with its two pillars: on the one hand, the escalation of the anti-grassroots measures that deepen labour exploitation and crush self-employed and small and medium-sized farmers and farmers and, on the other, the expansion of privileges and financial instruments for business groups in order to invest! Of course, the directive of the European Union incorporated into Greek law concerning maritime spatial planning is also in the same direction. It has criteria, and they are the ones of the European Union and the Member States' bourgeois governments. They are integrated and serve the European Union's integrated maritime policy which in no way serves people's needs and respect for the environment, but serves only the profit of business groups. In fact, it is used and is an integrated tool to link the various actions of capital to the sea and coastal areas in such a way that each activity and branch of capitalist production on land and sea favours and aims at centralising and centralising capital in order to create strong monopolistic groups. That is why it is clearly stated that the objective of maritime spatial planning is economic growth in line with the European Union's anti-grassian 'Military 2020' strategy. In other words, the establishment of a framework for maritime spatial planning is on the same road as the other spatial plans of energy, aquaculture, tourism and others. It is cut and sewn to the measures of the great capital, in order to boost capitalist development in Greece and especially in the priority sectors: energy, transport, ports, tourism. Of course it is nothing new, but it is a follow-up to the spatial policy created by the same government in 2016 by Law 4447/2016, as well as those implemented by all previous governments, since it is part of the overall planning and strategic plan for the development of capital in the name of facilitating a number of economic activities, such as renewable energy plants, mainly wind turbines. We also have a number of amendments by government MPs that provoke an extension of wind turbines, by way of derogation, even in saturated areas such as Evia and the Peloponnese. That's a lot of nerve! Of course you also promote other activities such as exploration and exploitation of oil and gas, maritime transport and fisheries activities, extraction of raw materials, tourism, aquaculture facilities, etc. In total, the exploitation of the seabed and subsoil, as well as the seabed, by the monopolistic groups, is regulated by extending usage to the marine area as well. That is why the competent state authority is also designated to define the conditions for the exploitation and cooperation of monopolies in neighbouring countries with the European Union. And, of course, through the Public Investment Programme and the Development Programmes once again the urban state is coming to support the expansion of private investment in the marine sector either through its direct involvement and the funding of the groups or by undertaking itself to build the infrastructure needed to support private investment. This way and without the rocks of micro-ownership there are actually marine plots, such as hydrocarbon exploration and extraction or for the extension of the ports for privatization or exploitation of the sea monuments and antiquities, in order to strengthen the tourism product, etc. You are therefore trying to share marine plots and coastal zones in business groups in a way that does not fight each other. For example, master plan of private ports, do not conflict with those of groups of fish farms and, of course, not cancel their investment projects in general, or even fish farms do not collide with the tourism industry, etc., but always from the point of view of capital profitability rather than the needs of the people's layers. This is why you reoperate the hundreds of nine tanks of oil, cassettes - "bombs" in Perama, included in the master plan of "COSCO" and "PROTAS III", although it is within a residential area, next to schools. These are the designs and criteria of your marine spatial planning. The living and working conditions of the people's family are for the garbage ahead of the monopolies' profits. This is precisely why sea monitoring is being used to create an unprecedented, unprecedented network of monitoring of everything, interconnecting all available means of monitoring and gathering information and, of course, connecting them to the border monitoring and guarding system, EUROSUR. At the same time, with all this methodology, any possible environmental obstacles are overcome by the regulations that the bill brings in the name of land-sea interaction, today, on the Environment Day. In view of the capitalist's profit, most of the remaining environmental obstacles are levelled. Otherwise you can make pompous statements about World Environment Day and its protection! With regard to the maximum share of energy from biofuels and their participation in the national energy target from renewable energy, we consider it unacceptable to produce biofuel from agricultural land and cultivation for food, when hunger is growing to more and more people not only of developing but also of developed countries, and the FAO is talking about nutritional and food shortages, which are constantly growing. It is therefore a distortion to use agricultural land for energy use when the country is rich in other energy resources. It is essentially a change in land use based on groups' profits and not on people's nutritional needs. At the same time, we object to the mixing of bioethanol with petrol, as it will increase the price of popular consumption and at the same time maximize the profits of groups. They'll use less gasoline and sell more. We accept the production of biomass from plant residues alone, without, of course, including what is useful for feeding. For the structured environment - I am talking about Article 34 - any individual arrangements that may relate to the small self-employed engineer and facilitate him in work that he can still take on, because he is given a share of the ranks. However, the reactionary nature of this framework does not change. Moreover, I should like to stress that you do not omit the compensation fee and extend it, which means an additional charge. That is why we are voting against the bill. I come to the amendments. The one about the paradoxes in the Code of Immigration and that you baptize it with a reduction of offenders for a number of residence permits, we consider it to be a mockery. Because, on the one hand, paradoxes are being reduced for certain residence permits, and on the other, you take them back, through the increase, which is twice as many times as, the unacceptable fines imposed on immigrants should one delay in renewing his licence or does not indicate the change in residence, etc. or even by introducing new paradoxes for some other residence permits or applications. Insurance is also provided for immigrant children, subject to their legal residence, that is to say they are declaring permanent residence, and that is unacceptable. We in this amendment will be expressed in terms of'representations'. The amendment on the Green Fund will be voted on, since it concerns the payment by officials who worked in the special programme to prevent smuggling and the new payment procedure, namely that it should be done from now on beyond the regular budget. Let me stress here that workers' struggles and mobilisations have not been lost so that this kind of overtime and overnight stays in legislation. Of course, landlords get the dues. But if they owed the state, there would be a fine. However, I should like to point out that as far as the amendments you said to us, Mr Minister, at the second reading of the bill, you would have done so in time. I mean, half an hour ago you brought them to us. You're conscientious! We will study them and put them in dentistry. Of course, I do not know if, for the wind turbines you have told us, you mean the amendments of the members of the government who have been tabled and the majority of them are 'photographics'. It is, of course, without a report from the General Accounting Office of the State. It can also be promoted in such a way. New morals! They're sharing money with the scoop on Eagles. And when I say RES, for the Practicals, I mean the Renewable Energy Sources and those who make use of the property. I conclude by saying that in our dentistry we will be placed on the other parliamentary amendments that you will be accepting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u38	The reason is the special speaker from the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitris Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. The draft law harmonises national law with the provisions of Directive 2014/89/EU ‘on the establishment of a framework for maritime spatial planning’. The end date for Member States' compliance with that Directive was 18 September 2016 and the end date for the adoption of maritime spatial planning plans is 31 March 2021, Article 15, Directive 2014/89/EU. At the beginning of the bill, the Independent Greeks are also placed in the committee, we vote "yes", and on the articles. I will make two comments, and for the Minutes I shall read out some comments we have in two articles, Article 2 and Article 6, on which we have received assurances from the Minister and we think that everything will be fine. However, I must also read out our remarks, as well as a small proposal for a small addition. Marine spatial planning is the process by which human activities are analysed in the marine, coastal area and is a policy instrument that ensures harmonious coexistence of activities and uses by applying an approach based on sustainability principles. In particular, however, maritime spatial planning includes the national spatial strategy for the marine space and maritime spatial planning plans. This is a very important draft law that strengthens the national spatial strategy, ensures and guarantees greater legal certainty for maritime development in the water. There is an urgent need to regulate maritime spatial planning due to pressures on marine waters and coastal zones, ecosystems and natural resources. The aim is to strengthen coordination between public authorities and stakeholders through the implementation of a single mechanism for balance and fair growth. This Directive promotes the implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy for inclusive growth. It seeks, among other things, to create jobs, to strengthen productivity and, above all, to achieve them with the proper use of resources and not over-exploitation of them. It introduces the necessary framework under which regions will now be demarcated and protected by overfishing, pollution, gradually reducing the effects of climate change. Incorporating European Union Directives 2015/1513 by amending Directive 98/70 on the quality of diesel and petrol fuels, amending Directive 2009/98 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. It aims at encouraging the use of new advanced biofuels not produced from edible crops to achieve a higher level of consumption by 2020 of these biofuels. Provisions are included on the possibility of contributing electricity to vehicles and on the possibility of contributing biofuels used in air transport, the obligation to reduce emissions of pollutants. The obligation to mix petrol with biofuels is obviously introduced to further promote the use of energy from renewable sources in transport, in the context of national and social policy and the mandatory target for a share of energy from renewable sources to 10% from 2020 by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Legislative amendments on the protection of the structured environment have been tabled and the amendment on the extension of time limits for the reductions of the single special premium for the normalisation of arbitrary structures. As for the two amendments tabled on the paradoxes and the Green Fund, we are absolutely in agreement and we are voting in favour of them. We have tabled this - I shall mention it for the Minutes - and an amendment concerning people with disabilities always in relation to this bill. On the basis of the Constitution of the country, following the 2001 Review and Article 21, the reference is made to persons with disabilities and their rights. We give them the opportunity to enjoy the sea as well, such as the rest of the world, by allowing the creation of facilities, ramps, so that people with a problem of moving down to sea. On the basis of the amendment, there is control by the State, by the competent state agency, where the authorisation will be given for this to be done by the tourist businesses that operate there, without infringing the environment. It is very important to note that all costs will be covered by the private operator or by the investor who will also make tourist investments. It is not public or environmental burdens. The licence will be limited. So if an extension is needed, it will be re-checked by the public to see if the rules are complied with. The amendment was not accepted for good reasons. It will be submitted and it has already been given to Mrs Papanatsiou. There is agreement to come to a bill of responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. The two comments we have in relation to the bill relate to Article 2 and Article 6, as I said before. Article 2(1) of the draft law states that the law applies to sea and coastal zones. There is an addition, that is, 'and in coastal zones'. Article 2(1) of Directive 2014/89 of the European Union states: ‘This Directive shall apply to sea waters of the Member States without prejudice to other Union legislation’. It is also stated in paragraph 3 of that Article that this Directive does not apply to town and country planning. It is clear from the above that there is no obligation arising from the directive on this addition. The extension of the arrangements in the coastal zone is very likely to raise issues in the implementation of investment projects in the coastal area, including tourist ports, by overthrowing their institutional framework. There is agreement with the Minister, there is a guarantee that this problem will not be solved. I must, of course, read our remarks and the Minister's assurance. By the way, I shall table a list of these investments - we must take it into account - which is already at an advanced stage. They number ninety-one across Greece and have to do with purely tourist investment. We understand the high importance of these investments, for this work and for the basic product that strengthens our GDP every year, which is tourism. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second point concerns Article 6. It states that maritime spatial planning projects are approved together with strategic environmental impact studies by means of a single Minister for the Environment and Energy's decision. Here we believe, and we leave it in the Minister's thought to discuss it, that the two co-legislative ministries, both the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Shipping, should participate in the signing and come out of a joint ministerial decision and should not only participate in the consultation period. Finally, Mr Minister, I have given you a note and I will read it - to add a small amount, which I think will not be borne by the bill and it will bring security, as I said before, to the interpretations of the circulars, but also to the investment projects that are already running. I read: "Projects that identify land uses in the coastal area". These are four: "Special Spatial Spatial Framework for Tourism, Special Spatial Framework for Water Agriculture, Regional Spatial Planning and General Urban Plans or New Territorial Local Plans". Adding another project, namely the Marine Spatial Plan, which will also identify in the coastal land use space, will obviously lead to huge problems of coordination and conflicts of land use. We have said that we will organise it and we will arrange it so that it does not happen, but we must take care of the interpretations and make it easier for services not to hinder, at least in time, their investments. That is why we suggest that the way in which this risk can be addressed is to expressly refer to the law that maritime Spatial Plans do not define or modify the uses of land, but their role is to identify management measures, i.e. Integrated Coastal Management. Please, Minister, as you take note of it. I'll testify to it in the Minutes too if a colleague wants to see my note. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I think with a positive thought you'll see it and this addition will come in. I think the bill will go well and we won't block the investments. We must not have the problems in all the co-legislative ministries with complaints and bodies calling for legal certainty which a service may not be able to provide, because the appropriate ministries are likely to be confused and there are no appropriate interpreters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr Kammene, and for the brief. Mr George Amyras, the special speaker from the river, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, World Environment Day today, and I think we should be on a beach not for baths and sunbathing, but to collect the plastics that have accumulated, tons of tuna on the Greek beaches. It's a huge problem. World Environment Day today, and I think we should be at Giannitsochori Ilias or the Olive Oil of Messinia. Do you know them, Mr. Statakis? It's some wonderful places with ammothins, in which, if you have your god, a speed race was organized with motorcycles. Two hundred motorcycles leveled the area, which is a nesting area of the sea turtle-carpet. World Environment Day today and we should be on the coast of the Eastern Aegean on a small area of ten nautical miles all over, where since the beginning of the year sixteen dead sea turtles of carpet - carpeted because they had swallowed hooks or for them they had hit boat propellers not large, but small, even jet skiing. World Environment Day today and we should be, if we could, in the Greek moat, this marine region west and south of the Ionian Sea and the Peloponnese, where a population of two hundred whales is living, these wonderful matriarchal families are the granddaughter, they are the daughter and they are the granddaughter. These whales live in matriarchal populations, it's a jewelry, it's a added value, a natural wealth for the Greek marine ecosystem. And yet, unfortunately, every year, a whale blower is found dead on the coast of Greece hit by the propellers of the huge pond ships. There we should be and give our battle to the field. So one would say that today with the draft law incorporating the European Maritime Spatial Planning Directive, we could give some answers to how we will deal with the problems that I have just mentioned. Unfortunately, I am not very optimistic that this draft law, despite the positive effects of the European directive, gives answers. First of all, the main thing is that it seems that the Greek Government, by integrating these European guidelines and rules into our national network. It should have been incorporated since September 2016. In addition, the public consultation on this Directive was completed in September 2016. The European Commission has referred us with Finland and Bulgaria to the European Court of Justice and so we are now almost retrospectively incorporating this directive into national law. Does this draft law include direction, policy and management plan for the country's marine environment? I will tell you and 'yes' and 'no'. Unfortunately, the 'no' is taking more. There are questions that arise. Are we going to highlight dive tourism? Are we going to create marine parks? Are we going to create fishing zones for coastal fishermen? Are we going to protect the Greek seas from overfishing? Will we prevent future marine disasters from being contaminated? In some of them there is an attempt to respond from the draft law you are bringing us today. But in most cases I don't see any answer. Greece is a particularly island country. It is the second coastline along the longest-lived route in Europe to shipping, maritime activities and maritime occupations. The coastline of Greece is much larger than the corresponding African Epirus. So we had to be pioneers as a country, as a society in the formation of maritime spatial law and planning. To put forward our specific features in the formulation of legislation, especially when the country lives largely from shipping, coastal shipping, tourism, aquaculture, natural resources, minerals or not, and of course, the use of renewable energy sources. I do not even mention defence and national security, which are regarded as highly data and, I would say, unreasonable. Without them you can make no design, no predictions, nothing to build. There's a contradiction in this draft law. While it tries, incorporating the European directive, to place the issues of the marine space in a hierarchy, there is also Article 34 with which I disagree vertically. I have a very creative debate with Mr Cameroon, the SYRIZA rapporteur. We're talking and we're at the same wavelength, but in Article 34 I have another point of view. Dear Mr Kamaterre, I believe that it legalises arbitrary land, while trying to prevent risks at sea. That's not how it works. We need to put a class in the Greek sea space, in its cultural area, in fact, as the European directive quite rightly says, but also in the land, what is going on behind the sea. I move on to the individual issues of the articles. I believe that the coastal zone from the maritime areas should be individually regulated for Article 2. We have heard this very strongly from the institutions too. Provision should also be made for accession to the regulated areas and to the exclusive Economic Zone. For example, Greece has included the Imia in the European Union's NATURA 2000 programme. We have a performance of environmental protection in regions of the Aegean and the Ionian Sea. We could also ensure our rights in this way, our right to the irresponsible claims from neighbouring countries. I also welcome the fact that it was unacceptable that the Turkish answer to the Greek justice decision should leave the eight Turkish asylum seekers free. It was incomprehensible how and to a lesser extent the level with which Turkey chose to address to the detriment of the Greek Prime Minister and, of course, through him to the detriment of every citizen in this country. Let us go to Article 4, to the objectives of maritime spatial planning. I also asked the committees - and I will raise the question again - whether there is a provision for the protection, management and promotion of coastal or underwater archaeological sites. What will be their prerequisites and how to manage them? In Article 5, with a view to establishing and implementing marine spatial planning, I propose - and I stress - that we should definitely involve researchers and academics in a role of even advisory. I also told the committees that I had a more advanced view that the establishment of an independent authority would solve many problems, always on the basis of the principle of sustainability and the continuous monitoring of maritime ecosystems. In Article 6 for the planning structure, I will raise the question that the National Spatial Planning Council, as foreseen by No 4447/2016, has not yet been convened. I now come to the issue of biofuels, that is to say, Articles 16 to 33. It is an opportunity to develop both for agricultural production and for the Greek industry, but also for the development of innovative rural sectors, to say so. I'm the "I'm" of the cyclical economy. For three years I have asked questions - Mr Famelos responds to many of them - about how we can structure our economy so that nothing goes lost, so as to say it very simply. So I come to the issue of time-limiting for biofuels for biodiesel production. We have a re-submission of pan-oil to participate in the distribution of biodiesel in previous years. "What should we do? Shall we throw out the old ones?" He's asking the Ministry. That's right. I'll tell you, yes. Since there was no biodiesel produced while it had been submitted to support the sale of biodiesel at a preferential price, yes, to throw it away. To export those who have kept them. They can't submit the same quantity over and over again. You can't get on privileged prices and don't do what they're being boosted for. The State cannot create a law that encourages another beneficiary to resubmit. Trading of cards. That's what we agree. When we have double and threefold re-submissions of the same quantities from various producers, resulting in double and triple reinforcement of the raw materials, then legal companies are threatened with closure. What are they gonna do with the quantities they collect every year? I am therefore inconsistent with your argument. We should therefore not give an incentive to collect new quantities of pan-oil in this way as the bill brings it. There is no incentive to collect new quantities of pancakes while companies now operating exclusively with the raw material of pancake oil will accumulate unreasonable damages and I tell you that it is a matter of time to deal with sustainability problems. He says the Ministry - he told the committees and private debates I had with his executives - that the collection time cannot be checked. Yes, sir. And I say that if you describe in a Joint Ministerial Decision the relevant criterion as the actual quantities of biodiesel produced from pancake oil within the period laid down in the allocation and the quantities of pancakes collected, then I think the problem is solved. It's simple. The way is simple and it will restrict the fraud. Now, I'm coming to the other articles. I will not say any more about Article 34. We will vote 'no' in this article, despite the fact that I consider it positive that two regional directorates for building control are set up in Rhodes and Syros. But where I see an order for arbitrary construction, I'm sorry, but I'm getting green from my bad. Green today is a global environmental day. Paragraph 37, an extension of six months to apply a discount to the fine in relation to the end date of Law 4495/2017. I mean, arbitrary. I ask again what the fines are from the law's vote until now. I haven't got an answer so far. Let me tell you the other thing. There's a bill prepared by the Treasury for the cavalry. First of all, we have to say that the shape of the sanctuary is still pending. Only 20% of the fragments of the hayalus are delimited, despite the fact that the preliminary line of the hayalus was completed in 2008. This shows this madness in this country. We are a seafarer, a maritime country, and instead of putting our first priority on how to ensure, show up, preserve and develop the sea that feeds us, which gives us the tourists' cuts, which gives us oxygen, which gives us a thousand two good, we have it low in our priorities. And I ask: is it possible for the Ministry of Finance to be responsible for imprinting the coastline? Where and how far is the Treasury responsible to delimit the coastline? It's incomprehensible. I can't accept that. According to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance, it will be possible to settle arbitrary constructions of private individuals on the wave and, in particular, for hotels and hotel constructions. That's what the Treasury will decide. I can see the dream now. He will be the head of the Ministry of Finance - to God, I do not know who the man is, I do not say it for evil - the papers will come before him, he will see accounting evidence, and the same hotel that submits for legitimisation this arbitrary building up on the wave, he will bear the seal and approve it, because the Ministry of Finance will take money. However, this does not mean that there is no development policy at the expense of the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, all of this makes me tell you that we will vote in principle and in most of the articles of the draft law where the European directive opens up some roads to us. But when you're dictating fragmentally, without a more general plan, without a plan, without a plan, without a plan and strategy, as I said, reality is a roller that's gonna kick your ass. The thing is what's to blame for all the rest of the people under the tracker that's going to run them down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-five students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st and 3rd Municipal School of Formation of Viotia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We close with the last special speaker from the Centroon Union, Mr Ioannis Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in many Greeks the joke that refers to our country is known as "the house of God for the old". We have the blessing of living in a place that offers us everything. No one disputes that. Unfortunately, however, no one can claim that we take care of it as it should be, that we treat it properly and that we take care of it as it deserves. If, of course, one dares to question our love for this place, then we are immediately upset, unearthed and noisy. But deep down, we know that we simply have not managed to stand up to circumstances and to meet our responsibilities. We did not notice our Greece as she has noticed us. Evidence of this claim can be found at the points where we now agree with the incorporation of the famous 2014/89/EU Directive, according to which our country will begin the process to finally acquire maritime spatial planning. First, we all agree that we are late and that we have been unduly delayed. We only disagree when we measure this delay. The government is talking about forty years and the parties that have been ruling are talking about a delay of three years. They are counting the delay as of January 2015. Unfortunately, however, these delays lead us once again to the risk of imposing fines by the European Commission, which, as early as December last year, decided to refer our country to the European Court of Justice, because we had to have done so since September 2016. Beyond the objective difficulties at the time, due to the negotiations with the institutions and the prerequisites for the assessments that have afflicted our country, us and our people very much, there is another much more substantial reason, for which it is not so simple for Greece, when it legislates for its sea. That is why there is no one but Turkey's behaviour. We Greeks do not have the luck of having neighbors of peaceful and civilized people. With today's bill, however, we are taking a decisive step towards peace, proving that we want to manage the Aegean's resources under the rules laid down by the International Convention for the Law of the Sea. At the same time, with this data we have to admit once again a very important remark, assessing the content of the provisions of the draft law under discussion. The way in which the land will interact with the marine spatial planning will judge the result and determine how quickly the processes will be completed and will, of course, illustrate our real priorities, whether we will allow this situation to continue with with the ruffles, the sacks, the windows, the blind eyes that are sometimes made, or whether we will finally dominate the hierarchy of our objectives, the protection of the environment and the preservation of the public and national interests, as the Constitution imposes. With the first part of the draft law dealing with maritime spatial planning, that is to say, with Articles 1 to 4, we agree and shall vote on it. This chapter demonstrates the need for a maritime management system based on more modern European practices. Moving on to Articles 5 to 13 of Chapter II, we unfortunately do not have much time to achieve the commitments we have made towards Europe, the citizens of the country and the environment. The timetable predicts that by March 2021 we will have completed the maritime spatial planning plan. If we actually manage to achieve this, it will be because we will have overcome ourselves. But the bitter experience we have from the political system's inability to harness the monster of bureaucracy and face the pathogens that arise from the ministrestrategic management system does not allow us to be very optimistic. For these reasons, Article 5 will be voted on'residents'. As in the same important development tool, the forest maps which Greece has been deprived of forty years, so with the issues of marine spatial planning, the same applies: every day when it goes to lost costs to GDP in this country. See what we have learned from our mistakes with the forest maps and if we have managed to avoid their repetition, regarding the spatial planning of the Greek seas. So Article 5 defines this enormous responsibility to the Greek people and assumes it by the General Secretariat of Spatial Planning and Urban Environment. The people who will be called upon to manage the implementation of what we are discussing will be faced with a problem, expected difficulties, as I said earlier our neighbours will do everything they can to create us. We must take this seriously in this Chamber. Article 6 provides for a very critical Ministerial Decision on specifications for the preparation, evaluation and revision of maritime spatial planning plans. It is precisely because there is a Ministerial Decision that we do not know whether the Minister will have the strength, the strength, the knowledge to be able to implement it, and because we as the Central Association are always opposed to this way of legislating, we will vote'residents' in Article 6. For Articles 7 to 8, that is, the minimum requirements and content of maritime spatial planning, we agree, in particular, because it defines the parameters to be taken into account when drawing up the national spatial strategy for the marine space and maritime spatial planning, as well as their content concerning the distribution of existing activities. With regard to Article 9 which provides for the necessary public consultation and the participation of citizens and interested parties, I will insist on the comment he made and on the debate on the principle of the draft law in the committee, but also during the second reading, stressing how important it is for it to be started and completed in a proper and productive way. The two-month limit may be too little. We may need to review the duration provided for in Article 6 of Law 4048/2012. However, we are voting on Article 9. In Articles 10, 11 and 12, the critical word - I said this to the committees - is 'cooperation', cooperation between the services and bodies of the Greek State for the use and exchange of data, cooperation between the Member States - members of the European family, cooperation with third countries. The concept of cooperation is unfortunately being tested in all these three cases. The concept of cooperation has been tested and within the Greek Parliament it would be advisable to keep a very small basket on whether we will be able to achieve it and complete it. The provisions of these Articles describe the ideal and set the best for purpose. But can we claim that we have achieved harmonious cooperation at any of these levels? Unfortunately, in my view, this does not seem to be a reality. We are voting 'yes' on Articles 10 and 11 and on Article 12. You have taken action on the issues of EEZ, but these actions, which you have taken, are not enough. Just there, where this is the crucial point, you have once again taken a delay. On the Greek Government's side, there is a delay, there is a problem as to whether we want to speed up procedures. Of course, we always - and we are not forgetting this - have Turkey to do so, and we have to count on that. But, for God's sake, Article 13, the last of the second chapter, provides for the monitoring of the whole plan for regular reporting. Europe wants and seeks to be aware of the efforts of the Member States and we do not find anything negative in that. So far here, and on European Directive 89/2014, we have no objection, as it has been described in the evaluation of the articles. We are simply asking the reasonable question about how much things Greece and its citizens have been deprived of so far by the lack of maritime spatial planning. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the second country, about the second largest coastline in Europe. The second part of the bill, which consists of Articles 16 to 33, seeks to incorporate the two Directives into Greek law, the 1513 and the 652 of 2015, the aim of which is clear and compatible with our country's commitments not only to the European community, but also to future generations in terms of protecting the environment and addressing the expected consequences of climate change. I feel that we all agree at the very beginning that the Greek agricultural land is better to produce food than to produce fuel. This decision, combined with an increase in the price of fuel, but also with our inability to reduce their taxation, as the Minister, Mr Stathakis, has explained, obliges us to adopt solutions, such as their involvement with biofuels. After all, in the likely higher oil prices in the future, these alternatives become more economically viable and the costs of new fuels are particularly competitive. However, the falsification, ladies and gentlemen of the bioethanol reservoir, does not presuppose that raw materials should be used to meet basic nutritional needs. As far as Articles 16 to 18 are concerned, we agree, as they simply include the abolition of certain provisions and additions to terminology. For Article 19 and the debate that has taken place in paragraph 5, with the provision that the 2020 target for biofuels from edible raw materials is limited to 7%, we would like to see a higher level in order to enhance the development of a very dynamic domestic sector. We believe that more clarifications should have been sought in time for the paragraph 2 of Article 2 in the same directive, which may also leave room for manoeuvre. We are voting 'at present' in Article 19. With Articles 20 to 22, which are technical in nature, and set the sustainability criteria, their verification, and the calculation of the impact of biofuels on greenhouse gases, we are in agreement. The same shall apply to Articles 23 to 28. With Article 29 we agree with the main provision that the participation of this bioethanol and the alcohol of organic origin used for the production of bioethanol in the final gasoline mixture is 1% for 2019 and 3.3% for 2020. Finally, we agree with Article 30, the transitional provisions of Article 31 and the technical annexes to Articles 32 and 33. With regard to Article 34 on arbitrary issues, I think that, in the year 2018 alone, we are discussing new extensions, at the same time as we are fighting for whether our farmers have understood that the objections to forest maps are not the same as the request to change land use - at the same time, when we are looking for a way of not losing the subsidies - proves the size of the criminal indifference and tolerance that has been demonstrated for for forty years by all Greek governments, so that today, under the memorandum regime and in the middle of economic crisis, in other words, the whole, the majority of the Greek people, are extremely careful and the little detail of what we are doing in this regard, so that nobody loses their jobs and does not stay on the road. We are voting against Rule 34. The Centro Association will vote'residents' in principle in this bill,'residents' as a whole. As far as the articles are concerned, he will vote on exactly what has been formulated by this Step here. As far as the amendments are concerned, our parliamentary representative will speak, even of these two amendments that have been incorporated into the bill within the committees. Before I come down from the Step, you will allow me to make a comment on what the Minister, Mr Kotzias, said yesterday. I would like to inform this House that I will not expect to see whether Mr Kotzias will be caused by the Members of the parties responsible for the country's governance for for forty years, so that I myself and the Greek people will be informed of this truth. Does Mr Kotzias really say about the tradition of Macedonian language since 1977 or is he lying, ladies and gentlemen? Does Mr Kotzias say that for three years Greece has proposed the solution 'Macedonia - Skopje' or is lying, ladies and gentlemen? Is it true that Mr Kotzias, when neither too much nor too directly blames the New Democracy nor the Change Movement, that what they have previously done in the native, or is he lying, ladies and gentlemen? We will not expect you, ladies and gentlemen, to challenge Mr Kotzia, we are now provoking him today, so that everything can come out in the air. We will offer him this opportunity with the submission of a timely question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u44	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype. As you know, you have secondary and tritology. Please do: If you are ready for the parliamentary amendments, at the closure of your speech to say what you are accepting. I therefore give you a little more time to respond to the amendments as well. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, since 1972 today has been designated by the UN as a day of information on major environmental issues. It is an initiative that is also of great importance in our times even greater, because we have left the information stage, we are judged by the stage of the major changes that we need to make, so that the environment is an integral part of a large section of the past. What we have known so far as a specific development system for many decades has been completed and we must respond to the new challenges, as they have been formulated and agreed by our country with the Paris Agreement and, of course, with the European Union's 2030 and 2050 strategy. Let me now, because there was extensive criticism of the government's delay or inaction, to codify exactly what has happened with regard to environmental initiatives, by stealing some of Mr Famelos' glory. We have formed a national strategy for the circular economy. With the new national planning, we give full priority to recycling with compulsory selection at the source of four streams and organic waste. We invest EUR 1.2 billion from the ESRB for waste management infrastructure and EUR 1 billion for waste water treatment. We changed the institutional waste management framework and created a National Waste Register, increasing from a thousand seven hundred to thirty thousand the companies that declare their waste. We passed the middle ages of the land by closing and restoring the two hundred and sixty of the two hundred and ninety-three illegal landfills. We finance a hundred and sixty-two municipalities for sustainable urban mobility projects and seventy-two municipalities for urban renewal programmes. We have drafted and approved the water management plans and the flood management plans for the whole country. We have founded eight new management bodies in protected areas and more than all the NATURA regions have a competent body. We have increased the size of the NATURA marine vessel - an absolute relation to the bill we are discussing today - from 6% to 20% of the maritime areas. We've made over five thousand intakes of eight months for forest fires. We significantly reduced the consumption of plastic bags. So, in this policy today, it is precisely the abrupt development of initiatives and activities in the face of the problems that we have to face. We ratified the Paris Agreement. We join the European Union's ambitious targets for 2030 both for the participation of RES in consumption and for energy savings. We have adopted a new institutional framework for RES auctions, which is being activated this year and is expected to attract investment of 2.5 billion in RES over the next few years. We have promoted energy-saving interventions, starting from the housing reserve, the 1 billion-dollar of 'I save home II', i.e., which is in progress and is completed, we continue with the public buildings - in addition to EUR 2 billion for savings - and then going to the transport sector. After decades, we complete the interconnection of the Cyclades and Crete with the mainland electricity grid. We are developing programmes for the'smart' islands. The last and very important thing is the sharp changes we make to spatial planning. When they criticize us for the delay, we should also have a full sense of the dangers, which maritime planning may introduce. We must have a full feeling that the situation in spatial planning was not good. There were no plans. There was a huge delay in promoting self-evident things, such as stock registers, forests and so on. Within a year and a half we have completed - and with today's complete completion - the institutional framework for spatial planning, maritime and land planning. The law on spatial planning, adopted at the end of 2016, in conjunction with the draft Presidential Decree on land use, essentially completes the part of who is invited to make new spatial plans, which are no longer urban plans. The municipalities are responsible. They don't cover within, off-project. It is a single project for the whole country, which the municipalities are invited to complete within the next two, three years. We are now working on local spatial plans throughout the territory, and we have also launched a revision of the specific spatial plans. I would hardly say the word'revision' because most previous spatial planning had fallen into the Council of State. We have also just signed the special spatial planning for tourism, which is the first of the special spatial planning plans to be completed in the next eight months. We voted by a large majority in Parliament on the law on the control and protection of the structured environment. Within one year we paid 39% of the forest maps. In previous years only 0.8% had been ratified. We voted for the new Land register law - a single register body is being set up - and all the relevant studies have been commissioned for the single organisation of the register, which will cover 23% -24% that is today and will reach 75% of the real estate in 2020. Today we are completing all these interventions with spatial planning for the sea. This is an incorporation of a directive of the European Union. In fact, what's it really going to do? A common framework is with which European countries are invited to move forward with spatial planning with common rules in our maritime areas. This is an integrated approach - management of the marine space. Obviously, it contributes substantially to the protection of the environment. It seeks a clear placement of economic activities at sea. All these are listed. It wants to contribute to the protection of fisheries. Many Members have put the risks to the sustainability of fishing. This way we get an additional tool. It is called upon to cover the gap in shipping and transport in terms of institutional commitment to specific shipping routes. An example was also mentioned of how shipping corridors should also be looked through the light of marine rescue. It therefore enables this tool and, at the same time, creates a legal framework for investments in RES, mining and other sectors. I would remind you that this framework is evaluated every five years, it is revised every ten years, a time limit for the integration of marine spatial planning is set by the directive in March 2012. The competent authority is the Secretariat-General for Spatial Planning and I repeat that it operates in conjunction with fisheries, aquaculture, hydrocarbon stocks, transport networks, RES and, most importantly, the protection of biodiversity and underwater cultural heritage and the development of scientific research. In conclusion, I would like to point out once again that there is no room for fear of the relevance of the maritime spatial framework with the coastal area. There can be no wall posted in two spatial plannings or from one space to the other or from the other space to the first. I think that he said this very well in the debate in this House, in a thorough and completely scientific manner, and Mr Economou and others, that a framework is called upon not to shape the way and tools with which the possible conflicts will be resolved. That's all. There is no point in the debate. From there on, I think that the spirit of the legislation is clear and does not have to resolve these issues. I'll say two words about biofuels and I have nothing to add. The intention here is clear. It is to encourage the use of new advanced fuels not produced in 2020 in order to achieve a higher level of consumption and to promote better controls on compliance with the sustainability criteria for biofuels and bioliquids. It is, of course, necessary to extend the development of biofuel gasoline, in particular with its bioethanol and bioethers starting in 2019 and providing for an increase in that obligation. The target is very simple. It is the further promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources by increasing the participation of biofuels in the final consumption of energy in transport. I would remind you that the national target for a share of energy from renewable energy sources of 10% in 2020 and the reduction in emissions to transport is the objective we have. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is a pleasant time to see the introduction of maritime planning in the country, a tool and an instrument from which only benefits can arise for Greek society and the Greek economy, but above all for the environment. Let me now turn to the amendments in detail. I am starting with the ministerial amendments. The first amendment refers to small hydroelectric projects. Specific conditions of construction are introduced for the construction of their building infrastructure with the main aim of not committing much larger fields than necessary. Secondly, the question of the placement of the first major inter-university green spot in Attica, which operates in the region of olive grove, is being resolved. It is noted that the large green spots are open enclosures with suitable building infrastructure and equipment so that the public can place recyclable materials in order to then be promoted for recycling or reuse. Thirdly, a regulation is introduced for the complete ownership separation of the CCCTB and the IPCC, in accordance with European directives and national legislation. In particular, it is stated that the Greek State participates, as you know, in the DESFA by 34% and in the PPC by 34%. It was finalised and the agreement with the institutions yesterday, and the PPA will be divided into two parts. One part will be infrastructure and international networks, namely gas infrastructure in Athens, Thessaloniki, in all the cities of Greece, the great expansion we make in eighteen cities. These infrastructure networks, together with the PPA involved in the major projects, TAP, IGB and the major pipelines, will become a company in which the State retains an absolute majority. The second pillar of the PPC, which is the 'METRO-COMMUNITY', is the one which has activities in the retail trade and wholesale trade on the basis of the agreements with other countries, which will be awarded 50.1% to a private investor. The public keeps 15% on the commercial track together and some veto rights for transnational contracts, what we have with Russia, Algeria and other countries. That's the deal. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] It must therefore be distinguished from the separation of TENs and DENs. So one company will pass under the control of the Minister of Finance and the other company under the control of the Ministry of the Environment, in order to ensure that there is no match between both - both - and the IPCC and the IPCC - by the same body that will supervise. Therefore, essentially, the Greek State will be represented at the DESFA by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, while the DEPA will be represented by the Minister for Finance. At the same time, this amendment calls into question the ownership status of the projects to extend the distribution networks built by the gas distribution companies, the ESAs, at Attica and Thessaloniki, after the splitting up of the distribution industry by the respective gas supply companies. It is expressly defined that these belong from 1 April 2017 to the ESAs rather than to the gas supply companies, the PSC. The possibility of authorising the supply and marketing of electricity to private capital companies is also introduced, the third and newer type of capital company following the anonymous and the RES companies. The next amendment enables holders of electricity licences to pay the annual maintenance fee for their permits for 2016 until 30 June 2018, now as some beneficiaries, mainly small producers, had not been informed in time of this obligation. The next amendment concerns a very important development.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u46	You can also tell us the numbers of amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u47	In each amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u48	The previous amendment has not yet been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u49	The third section is now being tabled. The installation of small wind turbines is promoted and for the first time up to 60 kilowatts, through competitive processes and self-production systems with energy and virtual energy netting. The loose end for the small wind turbines is being resolved today. So they will also enter a tendering procedure that RAE will publish. The framework under which companies participate in RAE's competitive tenders is also reformed. The guarantee letter submitted by the tenderers in the event that they are not finally selected in the tenders is given the opportunity to return. Issues related to the renewal of wind farm operating licences after the expiry of the 20th year of the original licence are resolved. Fifty-five contractors of RAE shall be renewed for one year until the invitation to tender has been completed. S.A.P.A.'s competition has been opened. Provisions are amended to make the first phase of the operation of the new legal person ‘Greek Stock Exchange’ more flexible. You remember the discussion with CRP lawyers during the debate on the draft law and so on. These rules include those who choose, to the new remuneration body they have had in the past. So it is easy for those who choose it - of course they will close their offices - to join without a wage reduction. The rules on the remuneration per audit of members of the fuel handling and storage steps are extended until the end of the year in order to establish the register to be financed from their revenue and not to be charged to the State budget. There is an amendment to the procedure for defining the smurfs of Naxos, the corresponding labour right. Instead of taking every year to issue a presidential decree, it will be done by ministerial decision. The possibility of using the parking space of the Athens Concert Hall by collecting a fee for part of the seats. I now go to the parliamentary amendments. This is where I'll call the numbers. The amendment under number 1606 concerns the approval of a budget for energy stock exchange and its subsidiary. This must be done immediately before the establishment of a company, i.e. before 14-6 /2018. At the same time, it is imperative that the OLAE draw up and submit to RAE first the Code of Electricity Transactions with the amendments required for its implementation by the Greek Energy Exchange, the AIA Code and Guaranteed Origin and the Code of Transactions for Electricity Products, i.e. the three codes that will determine the functioning of the markets. Finally, for reasons of security existing on the date of the secession of the GSP sector - as you know, a piece that will become an energy exchange will be removed and will take over some of their responsibilities - the legal relationships of the LAG with third parties related to the transferred industry are also transferred by separating the company Hellenic Energy Exchange S.A. The next amendment under number 1607 relates to the allocation of administrative posts in S.A. by a strategic investor. It concerns the block exemption from PHS 33/2016 and the procedure for the appointment of directors. This is done in public-owned companies - you see IPTO - and where there is a strategic investor - you see 'STATE GRID' that has 25%. These companies are entitled to place a manager from the STATE GRID, so it is the only way that managerial positions can be held by managers of the strategic investor. It does not concern anyone else, because these companies obviously only concern companies to which the public has 51%, but they also have a strategic investor. Amendment No 1604, entitled ‘Interconnection and transition charge for security of supply, interconnection of islands, etc.’, relates mainly to the Ministerial Decision setting out the day of the connection of the island from which the island will henceforth be considered as part of the interconnected network. The second part of the amendment relates to the transitional supply fee paid by RES and SNIC stations, to which are now added to the producers who have concluded and concluded operating aid contracts under Law 4414/2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u50	Is the derogation from RAE for Evia and Peloponnese?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u51	Yeah. Amendment No 1605 concerns amendments to the provisions of quarry legislation. The purpose here is to correct some ambiguities that had arisen for the sake of avoiding double penalty that for forest land congested in the quarries of inert materials already subject to the provisions of the Law of 2000 and for which land was operated on them outside the legally leased area, they are included in specific restoration schedules and topographical charts. I'll say it quite simply. It is an activity that is now restored. It's also a woodland. It is basically restored as a whole and we had to resolve the paradox to impose fines for the restoration of the forest area, which is why this amendment corrects this paradox. Amendment No 1601: Temporary compensation for new power stations. I'm standing at her because it's important. The competitions started. It is delaying the liquidation of the accounts of the companies taking the competitions and starting to work, so there is a loose end to how they are paid and how quickly they are paid. This amendment says that these companies will receive temporary compensation of 90% of the contract they have concluded. Therefore, they will receive the large percentage of the contract as they execute it and the liquidation will come to add the next 10% of the reference price as set out in their contracts. Amendment No 1600: ‘Energy islands and space liberation for energy communities and power stations’ does two things. The special pilots in a previous law had set them two. The islands become three, because for three they will run special pilot projects. The second and most important thing is that an electrical space is released on the saturated networks of the Peloponnese and Evia of 30 megawatts and 10 megawatts respectively, in order to be covered exclusively by energy communities and stations from RES and ESTYA that conduct energy netting. So we create a little space in these two regions, in Evia and in the Peloponnese, so that the energy communities can enter the network. Amendment No 1609 concerns TWGs. It's obviously Mr. Apostle's initiative...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u52	Will he come and let us know?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u53	I'll tell you. What does this amendment actually mean? This amendment says something very simple, that TWG administrations are obliged to notify, manage all their members' obligations and at the same time they are obliged to collect from members. The ‘required’ refers to the fact that it does not collect it to the tax office. What it does not collect is obliged to send it to the tax office. It therefore tightens up the system, makes TWG administrations fully responsible for being in line with the accounts and in the event that a minority of their members do not fulfil their obligations it has every right to respect this possibility. Another amendment is accepted, by Mr Gilola, by number 1599. It concerns a particular issue, with the ZOIs and the General Urban Plan, which we have activities between the ZOIs envisaged to remove certain industrial activities and the later General Urban Plan allowing them. There is an extension, essentially, of the existing suspension of the removal obligation in order to harmonise the two regulatory frameworks. There's an extension. There have been some amendments, for which, while I do not disagree at first, we cannot do anything because they are the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. I am referring to the Habitats, to the possibility of extending facilities for small and medium-sized enterprises, for which, unfortunately, we need some time to get together with the Ministry of Finance. I do not accept Mr Amyras' proposal, Amendment No 1587 on biodiesel and trafficking, the obligation to reintroduce the previous years. Unfortunately, we are going to create a huge problem. We recognise that there is a matter and there must be better control, but it cannot be accepted without producing other things, which, unfortunately, will be directed towards destruction with huge environmental consequences. I come to Mr Maniotis' amendment. Mr. Maniot is making terrible attacks. It discovers scandals to the right and to the left. Scandals in "I'm saving at home". He should be more careful in the scandal formalities. So what is the scandal, to demarcate it, as Mr Maniotis said? It claims that, both in the "Security" and in the fire safety regulations in the buildings, we have created a draft Presidential Decree that was amended in Tables 13 and 15 after the initial notification to the European Union and the changes we made did not notify them. For his bad luck, however, these changes with my signature will be tabled to the House. They've been notified. We are putting the relevant correspondence in the Minutes. So there goes one scandal. [[At this point, the Minister, George Stathakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now in the second conspiracy scenario, there is a risk of the development of monopolies in favour of stone wool products against another group which produces certain other categories of materials - and indeed also Greek companies - and which are excluded, according to a statement by Maniotis and a text that I do not know which lawyer in this group created it, which is inaccurate, which is why they are excluded. However, the regulation actually lays down requirements in relation to external investment, it does not refer to specific materials at all, so there is no question of the preferential treatment of one industry or of the exclusion of another. That is not the case. Now, there is a debate to the third element of the complaint that the term ‘unsustainable’ is used and not the term ‘not ignorable’. The 'hard' in the Presidential Decree we did take it from ELO, but - to give Mr Maniotis something - we are ready to discuss it in order to replace it with the 'no ignorance' Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty students and students and four teachers attendants from the 55th Municipal School of Patras. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u56	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u57	One amendment which I have not included is the one tabled, which concerns the arbitrary law. Competent provisions for the adoption of Ministerial Decisions on the operation of electronic databases and of electronic city planning shall be laid down in substance. You know the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u58	Mr Minister, tell us the number of amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u59	It's 1611. Secondly, the creation of new structures of collective bodies is to be subject to the extension of an incentive arrangement for voluntary demolition by their owners within a specific time limit for arbitrarily identified towns. In accordance with the Act of 2017, the supervisory authority shall be given the possibility of voluntary demolition of arbitrary persons when they are identified on the spot within 30 days. With our amendment, this is an option to extend to arbitrary, regardless of the time identified by the town plan, before 2011 or after 2011, so that they will voluntarily be demolished by the end of the year, 31-12-2018. This possibility is given for reasons of equality. I recall the difference before 2011, which concerns our law, and after 2011, and to have an immediate regulation of arbitrary construction. They are, of course, excluded - to highlight it once again, beaches, saints, etc. In these areas for reasons of order, so that one cannot demolish and reposition according to will. That was the last amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u62	What do you want, Mr. Amyras?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u63	I would like to say this, dear Mr Stathakis, today you have taught us two ways...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Amyras, you didn't tell us why you wanted to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u65	You'll hear it. It's a point of order. You have taught us two ways of accepting an amendment. The first is that you should write it and sign it by a Member, why don't you tell me now that the honourable Member - I won't say the man's name - knows what Article 59(b) of Law 3512 or Article 43 of Law 4001/1993 etc. It is obvious - among us, do not fool ourselves - that you have written the amendments...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u66	Work's going to the cloud.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u67	The work goes on cloud, as Mrs Manolakou says, my dear colleague from the JRC, so don't work with us. Tell us that you wrote them and gave them to sign them as MPs. And I come to the point of order, asking you, Mr Minister, why do the Members of Parliament not develop the amendments and present them to you? Because people don't know all that labyrinth you've written us. That was the first road. The second road, however, to accept an amendment by any other Member outside the SYRIZA, is to join the SYRIZA. Neither the first nor the second route is parliamentaryly correct. So, my dear Minister, you should put them before us by legislative improvement and provision within the bill with your name and signature rather than playing a shadow theater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u68	All right, Mr. Amyras, it's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u69	Wait a minute, Mr President, because I forgot the most important thing. These amendments come without a report from the General Accounting Office of the State and that is why they go through the parliamentary process. And so, we can't know their costing, what's missing, what's not losing the Greek state. Project "Stathakis". So, behind the words, Alexis isn't hiding, but Stathakis! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I would like the floor for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u72	Minister, just wait a minute for you to listen to Mr. Bukkoro to join us. Here, Mr Bukkoro, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u73	Minister, for the Ministerial Amendment 1610, should we expect any information from your Deputy, or will we be content with the information we had in the committees? That is the first question. Secondly, I would like to fully agree with Mr Amyras. Parliament's amendments are being signed here, which you support, and we believe that the signatories have little to do with the content of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u74	It does not support them, it dictates them, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u75	He's dictating them, announcing them. However, since all these amendments concern important issues, I see that Mr Famelos has also come, so I do not need an answer to my question. We expect and will return to dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u76	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u77	Your criticism is a little too much. Truth is usually somewhere in the middle. The two - in introductory - 'automatic' parliamentary amendments relating to TWGs made on the initiative of MPs are those relating to the Argos regulation and goes on to say. There's one, two that the General Accounting Office has not been able to make, because it's preparing the other bill and it's overloaded. It's one, two. They do not have a General Accounting Office of the State, because they have no financial costs. So they never tried and it was incomprehensible what you're implying. One, two, too, who had the General Accounting Office of the State and we don't have time, we didn't bring them. We withdrew them because they have authenticity, they need 100% of the State's General Accounting Office. So let us not create impressions. The main amendments are those which I have said to you, which are parliamentary, and one or two for which the General Accounting Office of the State was overloaded and could not complete them. I think that there is no question of it, because it is completely procedural. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, may I have the floor on personal grounds, because one of the amendments referred to bears my signature?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u80	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u81	In particular, Amendment No 1599 concerns regulation of arbitrary nature. In fact, it is an overlap of land uses between a strong zone of housing control, an ZOE, and a General Urban Plan, GSP. We are torturing this amendment three to four months. You can understand that it is mainly about legal matters. We had the co-operation with the Ministry. I have been trying since December to bring it to the House and it has been accepted by the Minister. It is not good to go along with what has been said here, because it is about mature requests which resolve issues in particular concerning industrial installations, business and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u83	Here you go, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u84	The same applies to the parliamentary amendment on the TWGs, which we will obviously support. I don't have to say much now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u85	I do not see, Mr Giola, react to the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, you are not listening. Mr. Amyras, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u87	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u88	And you, ladies and gentlemen, do nothing but vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u89	Please, ladies and gentlemen. We shall therefore start with the list of speakers. So far only Mr Theocharopoulos has asked for the floor. If you want others to speak soon, we will have to go with parliamentary power, otherwise two speakers will speak, I will give Mr Theocharopoulos the floor and we will continue the process with this rotation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u90	Every three, Mr President. Don't cut it all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u91	All right, every three. It's okay. In any case, there are very few speakers. It's 12. So every three doesn't work, because only the parliamentary representatives will talk next. Mrs. Theophevette, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about the establishment of a framework for maritime spatial planning and this framework is particularly necessary, since Greece is the only European Union country that has over a hundred inhabited islands. If I'm not mistaken, it's a hundred seventeen. Ladies and gentlemen, spatial planning is the science with which we regulate conflicts in space, design the space, distribute the activities and have a better effect than we would certainly have without this planning. As far as this process is concerned, in addition to the scientific part of the analysis, political choices are important in tabling proposals. It is a political choice to put the land or sea in place. It is therefore important that political choices and how we understand growth, the economy, environmental protection, social cohesion, as planning itself also involves changes for society. It is therefore a process, a tool that requires coordination between all ministries and institutions. His absence does not cause what most people in this country know very well, bureaucratic claws, delays, small and large corruption. Let us put aside the fact that those who showed some kind of sensitivities about the necessity of this design are mocked and treated as graphics. This design often worked fragmentaryly, because it had been replaced and the private initiative had always prevented it. Also, in most cases, the design did not follow the appropriate support programmes to implement these projects and become an estate of society. So when we talk about development projects, about environmental protection, about archaeological sites, about renewable energy, about infrastructure, we are talking about what is on land. In Greece, however, the relationship of land with sea surfaces is about sixty - forty. With the exception of transport and fisheries, little has been done in activities and exploitation of the marine wealth we have. We also have protected areas and possibilities for RES through climate energy and the need for environmental protection. The need, therefore, for a marine spatial plan to be set up arises from the ever-growing expansion of uses, the cumulative consequences of them and their crusade character, whether we are talking about long-haul uses, such as fishing or recent, such as wind farms or aquaculture. The incompatibility of users creates increasing pressures on the marine environment and so we have the conflict in the issue of use - protection. We also have the problem, as I have said before, of coordinating the authorities and bodies that will regulate these activities. Marine planning is also called upon to solve the issue of inequalities, social and regional, natural and man-made. But spatial planning is not a neutral technical process. On the contrary, he has a social sign. It must, on the one hand, help to reduce the disasters and social injustices already committed and, on the other, to prevent enlargement or the emergence of new inequalities. The coastal zone, i.e. the land and marine site, which is under great pressure due to anthropogenic activities, urban or industrial pollution, infrastructure and natural phenomena and changes, such as soil erosion, floods, etc. is of particular interest. As we know, the coastal area is the most critical, since we are talking about a complex planning issue, taking into account the conditions of islands that are characteristic of our country's identity, but it changes the concept of development, as the conditions of access to public goods are differentiated for the inhabitants of the islands in relation to the inhabitants of the mainland. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that last week I was in Corfu, at the 12th Pan-Hellenic Symposium organized by the employees of PPEH, in collaboration with the Ionian University. This symposium was for development in the macro-region of Adriatic, Ionian and Eastern Mediterranean, where the aim is to make the sea an area of prosperity, development, innovation and economic opportunities for all the countries affected by it, a sea that surrounds eight countries, with seventy million inhabitants and plays a key role in strengthening geographical continuity in Europe, including activities that start with fishing, tourism and move on to communications, shipping and the protection of the marine environment and the coast. I would like from this position to applaud the contribution of the PPE Group for its activities for over thirty years in the research of the marine space. Ladies and gentlemen, for us islanders, the sea is often an obstacle, it is a disadvantage for transporting people and products, for access to essential goods, such as health and education. This marine wealth itself, in such a sensitive area of the south-eastern Mediterranean that we are in, must become a means of cooperation, of development and, above all, of the sea of peace which unites us and which we very much need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Theopevettus. Mr Katsafandos from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes. The following is followed by Mr Maniotis who has asked to take the lead, because due to an obligation he must withdraw and then Mr Theocharopoulos, the first of the parliamentary representatives. Here, Mr. Katsafandou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. World Environment Day today and from what the Minister, who is currently not in the Chamber, has referred to what the government has achieved, eight minutes from his speech. Of course, I would like and would expect the Minister, after all the government has legislated, to tell us which of them have been implemented, how much money has been spent and what a benefit we have in relation to the environment. Unfortunately, we have heard too many promises and many commitments left in drawers here. But the only thing for sure, ladies and gentlemen, is that the European directive that we are debating today had passed in July 2014, should in 2016 be incorporated into Greek legislation, but unfortunately, this delay, obviously, is the work of this government. Good too late, then, Minister. It is enough, however, that this delay, which is your responsibility, as I have said, is not accompanied by financial fines. Of course, this delay is due to less than three years for the preparation of maritime spatial planning, since the deadline for the completion of the national maritime spatial planning is March 2021. And that is your result again, Minister. The usefulness of maritime planning is given, and its importance for Greece is triple: Firstly, it is of geopolitical and geostrategic importance, because the country's maritime borders give the image of a truly island and marine state. Secondly, it is environmentally and ecologically important, because the integrated numbering, regulation and organisation of the uses of the sea result in the protection of the marine environment and, at the same time, in the protection of its own resources with sustainable management. Thirdly and very importantly, it is because it touches issues of major importance to the Greek economy, such as tourism development, ports, marinas, shipping, fishing shelters, coastal tourist infrastructure, farms, fisheries, maritime transport for oil, gas and other energy resources, raw materials, minerals and inert materials for the production of energy from renewable sources. Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen, Greece, Europe's most naval and island country, did not have and does not have maritime spatial planning. And we are now coming to incorporate a European directive, and for historical, economic and geographical reasons we should take the lead in the preparation of these policies and we should export know-how to other countries as well. Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen, we are also seeing something else in this legislation. We are observing the sloppyness of this important piece of legislation by the government, as in all the previous ones. The word strategic design, goal and effect do not exist in your vocabulary, so you legislate without vision for your country. There are some very few announcements of which they are being implemented, and very late, and some others that remain announcements. You are bringing together and approving the national spatial strategy for the marine area, but without an approved national spatial strategy, without having any binding timetable. Should it not be stated that after the adoption of this law at a certain time, for example, one year, the relevant national Spatial Plans should be submitted to the National Spatial Planning Council by the relevant bodies? Although today's directive is in the right direction, it is clear that there will be problems in its implementation. The Minister for the Environment and the Secretary-General are appointed to this draft law. We believe, Minister, that such crucial issues must be given greater and stronger programming and greater legitimacy. Besides, the Minister and the Secretary-General will not cope with such an important spatial planning. Why, then, do we not understand, does university institutions with spatial planning departments not participate? Another issue you need to be careful about is not to reproduce in this new form of planning the weaknesses that have been observed over time in land planning at all levels. They are weaknesses linked to long delays and to the finding of projects and authorisations, with limited implementation of the projects and with difficulties in licensing. So the issue, ladies and gentlemen, is how we can avoid these impasses and exploit the positive potential of maritime planning. And in these cases, the simplest the institutional framework is, the easier it is for the public administration and the private sector to have a clear picture and to go to a more effective implementation. The problem may be that conflicts may arise with other forms of planning, which also take place in the coastal area. There are too many plans and one way must therefore be found, so that there are no contradictions, conflicts and confusions. Many bodies in the committees have said so, and so are we. You should explicitly maintain the coastal zone in land planning to exclude any overlap, conflicts and ambiguities. Moreover, the directive refers exclusively to the design of uses and activities in the marine environment, precisely because it has been recognised that another type of procedure and other regulatory framework is needed to regulate it. The choice to include the coastal zone in maritime planning in this way will certainly create legal problems in an area that is already quite problematic. It should also be clarified whether and in so far as marine spatial planning plans are to take account of the interactions of land and how this will be done. Since the directive allows for segregation and use of other official or informal procedures, where appropriate, Minister, you should consider setting up a separate legislative instrument - bridge the integrated management of coastal zones in order to integrate the two dominant spatial plans, land and sea. The second part of the bill concerns the incorporation of directives and legislative improvements, with the aim of setting new limits on the environmental footprint for the production and use of biofuels in Greece. Unfortunately, it is a matter on which our country has remained a long way behind the rest of Europe. It is important that the issue of biofuels is being raised today, but I would say that we are being delayed and we should go more aggressively as a country. The same goes for electricity, which you yourself admitted, Mr Minister, to me in this regard. I recall that the European Union's binding objective for 2020 is that 10% of the transport fuels for each member country will be from biofuels. The use of biofuels in the country is only positive, since the advantages include a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, a reduced dependence on oil imports, an increase in employment and GDP and, of course, the creation of opportunities in areas such as rural ones. As regards biofuels, I think, and indeed has been said by the relevant bodies in committee, that you must take into account environmental performance, so that those biofuels derived from raw materials produced in Greek soil, and specifically from symbolised energy crops, used vegetable oils, oils, animal oils and cotton seeds, are given priority so that when we talk about local production, we can avoid the large environmental impact of transport. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Naturally, the priority should also be given to producing bioethanol from Greek energy raw materials. At the moment, however, there is no production unit, ladies and gentlemen, bioethanol in Greece and you realise that bioethanol will be imported from abroad, so that we can import pollutants and not give any incentive to move forward to new investments. There should also be an assessment of the benefit to consumers following the mixing of biofuels. Will there be cheaper prices? Will you be able to effectively control biofuels? I must remind you here, Minister, that there are still five critical ministerial decisions to combat the smuggling of fuel. I have already asked a question about it a few days ago. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the environment, we must understand and understand that the environment is not our property. We must understand and understand that we are obliged to inherit the next generations a better environment than we have found. Clearly, marine spatial planning can provide the framework for the economic development of the country and for the protection of the marine environment. Unfortunately, however, in such a rough process that the government follows on such important environmental issues, I fear that the results will be rather negative than positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Katsafado. Mr. Maniotis has the floor, and then Mr. Theocharopoulos immediately thereafter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is always pleasant to have the always smiled Minister Stathakis when he is opposition. I'm really happy as many times as I can answer him. Only there is one problem with Mr Stathakis and the ministers of government. Since they have sat down for a long time next to conspiracy, Mr. Panos Kammenos, they have begun and copy the hoyas of Mr. Panos Kammenos and see conspiracies and conspiracies everywhere. I shall start with my amendment, which the Minister has not accepted, and which concerned complaints that monopolies are being created in favour of insulating material, rock wool and other insulating materials. This is the press release dated 29 May 2018 that she published - who do you say? - The Association of Greek Chemical Industries, representing the seventy largest chemical industries in the country and in which ten thousand workers work. It is also signed by the Panhellenic Association of Expanded Polysterins with the twenty largest businesses, where two thousand workers work. What do they say in their press release? Am I only reading the title: “Wrong or scandal? Complaints with a text of a Presidential Decree which leads to a monopoly and to the detriment of consumers' pockets. Actions to save energy in the public and private sectors shall be promoted in the air." I submit the relevant document. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The same group of complainants in a letter dated 23-5-2018 to the European Commission requests that the Competition Committee also examine these complaints concerning the creation of monopolies or oligopolists. I submit the relevant document. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Letter dated 10 May 2018 of the same two links to the Minister for the Environment Mr Stathakis, Deputy Minister of Economy Mr. Haritsis, Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Toska, to whom they say themselves and add: "To examine why the Presidential Decree has been amended". They shall request the suspension of the implementation of the Presidential Decree. I would also like to make the third relevant document. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, a letter to the President of the Republic by the institutions themselves, to the Legal Office of the Presidency of the Republic, asking for an inspection to be carried out if there were any irregularities in the President-in-Office's decree. I put the fourth relevant document in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] After we have finished with the amendment, to see who is conspiring or conspiring, let us start with a good one. You did very well, Minister, and you accepted the proposal we have tabled for several months, to remove the saturated power grid of the Peloponnese. Indeed, we have tabled this question for a long time and have discussed it together. I have told you that you have been lured and wrongly lifted to this day. Today, the 30 MW that you give to the Peloponnese, I think it is an important breath to both the TWGs of the Peloponnese and the energy communities that will be created in the Peloponnese, so that we have the logic of self-producers and self-consumers, in all respects of Jeremy Riffkin's general strategy, to satisfy the vision of energy democracy and not just depend on small consumers from the large electricity producers. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the incorporation of the Maritime Spatial Planning Directive. I'm so glad we're discussing this bill. Do you know why? Because, when in the first half of 2014, Greece, having the Presidency of the European Union, was discussing this directive with the Council of Ministers of the Environment, then SYRIZA complained that we were working against the country. I am glad, therefore, that today, what I had discussed as President-in-Office of the Energy Council in Brussels, comes the honourable Member, Mr Stathakis, and adopts it and incorporates it in national legislation. It's a small step towards adaptation to reality. However, there are the serious problems of engaging in policy on the environment and planning in the country. And here the government does not allow us to have any optimism for its own efficiency. We will incorporate the Marine Spatial Planning Directive, but come on, which is done with a government that has proved its complete incapacity in the field of spatial planning as a whole! How do I prove that? First, twelve regional spatial planning areas had to be completed and signed in the first half of 2015. They were delivered ready and mature to the current government and have not gone any further, except in Crete. There's another eleven regional spatial planning areas coming up. Second, regional tourism. Ready for formal reasons. The Council of State dropped it. It could be within a month that the decision on spatial tourism will be taken again. For three and a half years, the country has no regional tourism. I hear that a new study has now been commissioned. So five years Greece in heavy industry, tourism, without spatial tourism. Thirdly, a modern, modern system of land use is being abolished by the government and has even restored us today to the 1987 Presidential Decree of Land Uses, which does not even exist in the use of land logistics. I guess no one can be proud of that by the government. Fourth example of why we do not trust this government in spatial planning is the country's country's landfill site, which was ready for delegation in early 2015. Still no progress has been made in the process of entrusting him. Ladies and gentlemen, I will end with this: you know, there is the popular song 'A Lost Sunday'. With SYRIZA you have a "lost three years" and the environmental issues that we are discussing today and we honor the day of the environment. Titles alone: In 2015, 15.3% of renewables participated in the country's energy balance. The same remains today, zero growth. Valterlo in "Security". Waterloo, I don't have to say anything else. But, Minister, I heard you say good news. You found a billion for "Security" in homes and another 2 billion for "Security" in public buildings. I would very much like you to tell us where you found this money, to applaud and help you find more. Thirdly, I was very pleased to see government ministers inaugurating the PPP unit of waste management in Kosani. It is one of these studies that, when we signed environmental permits, we were shot at and threatened to operate against society, but now the SYRIZA ministers are very happy to launch them. Previous observation: When SYRIZA talks about waste management, he will be very careful, because, listening to the average citizen "waste", the misery of the images of Corfu comes to mind and the misery of the images that are coming to the Attica region, where the HYTA Gender has been tied and nothing will be done and the Athenian citizen will see it before him. Finally, because the Minister is from Crete, I would very much like him to tell us if it is true of a post, which I have created a huge concern. There is a report that says that the Energy Regulatory Authority and IPTO have mixed their cables and, while Crete should be linked to the mainland system of the country and the small and large interconnection, and even the small one at the end of 2019 at the latest, because 600 MW currently operating in Crete will come out because exactly the plants are polluting, yet they have not found a solution. Minister, can you assure the Greek people, especially the Cretans who are listening to us, that there will be no risk of black out in Crete because of the uncertainty and lack of understanding of the two bodies being supervised, much more so that in the next two years we will have an increase in the consumption of electricity in Crete and we can overcome the 800 MW, while, with your policy so far, 300 MW can be provided for the daily needs of the citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Maniots. The parliamentary representative of the Democratic Association, Mr Theocharopoulos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u98	Minister, at the moment, when I did not see you here - you were gone for a while - I thought the SYRIZA MPs, the so-called'massage' had begun to inform you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u99	Four o'clock.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u100	...but then I was informed it was at four o'clock. It follows the "massage" by six Ministers for where, as I have read, pensions, prerequisites, taxfree...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u101	You're watching TV, you're being informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u102	We're trying to keep us informed. But where? This is where SYRIZA MPs say they don't know them well. They don't know exactly what's going on with pensions. What can they support? Are they reducing or not reducing since 2019? As far as tax is concerned, if SYRIZA Members and Members of Parliament know and send a public letter, how will we and the Greek people know exactly what is going on? So, as you will say at four, do you not also know a little bit where the procedure is, whether pensions will actually be cut from 1 to 2019 or not, so that there is a clear position, or do you simply have as a target what you have signed for the country for the next five years to transfer it to the next five, while your government has signed it? Primary surpluses of 3.5% for a five-year period, up to now no debt adjustment, a tax reduction, a pension cut. Will all this be implemented because you signed it, or will it not be implemented? So the questions when a Member of Parliament does them, let you answer them. Don't answer them just to your government MPs. Secondly, with regard to the amendments, first of all - first of all - an amendment tabled not by your Ministry, but by the Ministry of Migration Policy. Look, the reduction of the costs of offenders from third countries is necessary, not only because of the recent judgment of the European Union court, but also to bring justice to the principles of proportionality and reciprocity of the offenders. But your government doesn't do that. It works hypocritically at this point too. Why? It reduces the level of infringements where it considers it to be required by the European Commission - I have specific examples within the amendment - not because it accepts that there is injustice, but to avoid imposing fines. Why is he doing this? Because other paradoxes and fines at the same time in the same amendment are increasing them. In fact, the loss of revenue is called upon to be paid again by immigrants. The justification for increases, according to the Ministry, is the need to maintain the economic equilibrium of the residence permit system. In other words, on the same subject, where we have European legislation, we are reducing the paradoxes and where we still have national legislation in the paradoxes, we are increasing them. Is it fair to leave the children of the second generation to cost twice as much as that of their parents? Is it not challenging for farmers who want to employ legally land workers to pay hundreds of euros more than today in paradoxes? Is it right to provide for a paradox of EUR 50 for an application for treatment and EUR 100 for the re-issuance of an existing residence permit? Is it not surprising for the first time to ask for a paradox from beneficiaries of humanitarian aid? These provisions do not honor anyone. I refer to the provisions which come with this amendment. That is why a single paradox should be withdrawn and a single paradox should be introduced for migrants working in the country, in accordance with the principles of proportionality and reciprocity. Any government deficits cannot be paid either by Greeks or immigrants. Now, as far as the other amendments are concerned, Minister. Suddenly, we saw a series of amendments which, when we read them this morning, we understood that many of them are not parliamentary. The representatives of the River, the Democratic Alliance, the Communist Party of Greece and the New Democracy have told you here. We're not stupid. We know how to read. So what did you do today? Some amendments have been tabled as parliamentarians. I am not talking about all of them, because you said that they are not all like that. I didn't say all of them. We're not telling her about the TWGs. We don't say the one mentioned above. It seems who they are and who they are not. However, there are a number of amendments, such as, for example, Amendment No 1606 on the adoption of a budget for the Energy Exchange, signed by a Member of Parliament, but they are not here and have not presented it. Basically, it's all legal. She's a ministerial. It's obvious. I don't have to read it because it exposes your ministry. The second amendment is for the distribution of management posts with a strategic investor. The same MEP signs it. He's not here. He didn't present it, you presented it. It is clear that it is ministerial and is not parliamentarian. Another amendment concerns the modification of the provisions of quartz legislation, by way of derogation from the provisions. Actually, this is a new way. At least don't be fooled by each other. We have been invoking you so far for a tactic from your Government that you are bringing amendments at the last minute, five hours ago and we do not have time to read them. Is that a new tactic now? Do we have to stand up to the obvious that ministerial amendments have been tabled as parliamentarians? I think you should have withdrawn these four, five amendments and brought them in by the normal procedure next time. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this sanction, we have become accustomed to delays in incorporating European directives. That is not the current phenomenon. It's a time-consuming phenomenon. We are also used, of course, to incorporating other provisions, which often go far beyond those of the main theme of the bill. The draft law we are debating today incorporates a European directive. It's good to incorporate it. What we are saying is that integration is taking place too late. Because the directive was from 2014 and in 2016 there had been consultation. The draft law, therefore, incorporates in our domestic law under the pressure of references and fines - while most countries have completed integration - the directive on maritime spatial planning. Our concern is intensified, because we are coming to vote on the framework for maritime spatial planning, namely the national spatial strategy for the marine area, when, after three years of governance, there is no approved national spatial strategy. We are therefore voting for tactics, without knowing the strategy. That's what this is about. The extension of the scope of the directive to the coastal area may lead to legislative confusion and delay in implementation, as existing land planning already includes guidelines and regulations for the coastal zone and now the marine area, which also includes references and interventions to the coastal area. So, obviously, there'll be overlap. In fact, this issue is also noted by the Scientific Service of the House in its report. It says attributes: "It is observed between the marine spatial planning to be developed and the already prepared spatial planning to create a relationship between strength of one instead of the other". That's not what we can see. It is therefore unclear what will be applied in the event of a conflict between the projects concerned. We are making this point to you to tell us how to deal with it if it happens.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u103	I told you. We discussed this in committee ten hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u104	There is also a risk that the weaknesses, problems and nuisances of land planning in the sea, with particularly dangerous consequences not only in the environment, but also in a significant number of activities, will be reproduced. It does not sufficiently support the integrated spatial approach and management of the marine space by linking and composing individual policies. It does not specify the framework for synergy between marine spatial planning and land use. All problems would be limited or easier to manage if there were, as I told you, a national spatial strategy with a clear vision, purpose and objectives. But there isn't. One wonders what measures you will take to avoid these problems. We also have the holistic plan of government development. Well, that's all! You're talking about a government's holistic development plan. You really don't play on the renames! You've made the troika the institutions. You are talking about a holistic development plan, which is essentially the government development plan, because no one saw it. While we asked you in the committees and did not bring it, you went directly and you negotiated it with the partners. It is a good thing that you accepted the debate before the House at the end of the day to present this holistic development plan. If we ask one today what is left of the holistic project, there is nothing left but the maintenance of HISFIA, that is to say the assumptions that we will proceed with the limitations we have in the current period. Here we need a national production reconstruction plan for the country and decide in which areas we will be addressing the importance of it. But when we do not do that in simple matters, how do we do it in the overall context? So what kind of development we want and what are national priorities? So we ignore exactly what kind of development we want for our seas and what the respective priorities are. May I ask you one question: will we emphasise the primary sector, which in the marine area is fishing and aquaculture, for example, or modern technology? What exactly is the priority? I know, we can combine both of them and keep talking in theory once again. In practice, however, we must put priorities. The bill also gathers powers to the Minister for the Environment as a competent authority, with sole responsibility for implementation. You said at the committee meeting that there should be an interministerial body. There were other proposals, such as the independent authority for which the representative of the river spoke to you. However, it cannot be so important that many ministries do not fall within the competence of several ministries, regardless of who sits in the chair every time. There is no regular consultation between the stakeholders and their active involvement in planning throughout the duration of implementation, and it is necessary for broad acceptance maritime spatial planning plans. As far as the second part of the bill and biofuels are concerned, any attempt can once again be ineffective. I have been a strong supporter for many years, since research and biodiesel have appeared and bioethanol and energy crops, and I support all this alternative, which unfortunately has not succeeded in our country over the past few years. The question is if it succeeds now and what we do. I think we're just coming up to set up arrangements to show that we're doing something. It is clear that we cannot achieve the objectives, not for the European Union, but because it can give an alternative view, based on the Greek special circumstances. Of course, why am I talking about biofuels now? Here, for conventional fuels, did you not manage to control the smuggling of fuel and the smuggling, could you check the situation in biofuels? It was your government that was committed, that is where Mr Nikoloudis - we did not forget them - that Mr Alexiadis, who was speaking of one billion and the other for two and a half billion euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u105	For five billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u106	The fuel smuggling is here, and the particular ministers who called it. They were words of the air. In October 2016, I had tabled a relevant question here. From Mr. Tsakalotou's answer, all I've seen is committees. It was the one committee, the other committee, etc. Now, ministerial decisions are expected to be adopted - yet not adopted -. If someone thinks that this is the way they deal with it, he's really deeply sleepy. We are also talking about fuels and an increase in fuel prices. The highest percentage of this price, namely 1,63 euros, is mainly taxes and charges. You're constantly talking about the surplus and you've made it the only goal of your Government, this excessive surplus that you achieve in the range of 4% -4.5%, and how to then negotiate to become 2%...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u107	You're committed, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u108	You probably don't know well, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Your government has now committed itself for a five-year period of 3.5% and succeeds more than 4% to give it as the maximum financial result of this government. Since it is so high in fuels that are interested in the citizens who see us, lower the tax after you have done so well, because what you are doing is overtaxing everywhere to achieve the objective of the primary surplus, to drain the economy. That's what's going on. This does not give way to the Greek economy, and this is about the development of a national strategy. As far as biofuels are concerned, and biodiesel and bioethanol are concerned, it is important to find ways to stimulate the use of symbolised energy crops produced on Greek territory and to enable investments to be made. In particular, bioethanol is very expensive for these plants to be invested. It is obvious that they need 100 million euros. It's really hard to do. However, we need to go in this direction towards energy crops, so that we can motivate ourselves here with symbolised products in the chain and not to increase the deficit in the trade balance, because there is a risk that we can get bioethanol and biodiesel in and increase the deficit in the trade balance. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, maritime spatial planning must be based essentially on accurate information and scientific knowledge. So we need a strong database and knowledge. That doesn't exist. Also, maritime spatial planning is a tool for improved decision-making systems, which the government does not have. It is a procedure for collecting data in consultation with stakeholders. It develops marine spatial planning in a constantly changing environment. It must adapt to changes. Flexibility, adaptability and transparent monitoring and evaluation mechanisms are needed. But are you convinced of this flexibility as a government? Oh, no. You are escaping through investment only in mistakes you find for previous governments. You are investing in opposing opposition, while you are more than three years in the government. That can't be. This is not how the country moves. We must at last solve the problems and not just create new ones or expand existing ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mrs Vanja, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. My position today concerns Parliamentary amendment number 1609 and special number 199 and the agencies involved. Of course, before I begin, I want to say a few things about today's draft law that we are discussing. This is a very important draft law, as it concerns - I will finally say - an integrated approach to programmes and management and maritime and coastal areas. Today, of course, the draft law harmonises national law with the provisions of Directive 89/2014, which lays down the rules, so that a national spatial plan for the marine and coastal areas will then emerge. What I want to say is that the completion of spatial planning for both the seas and the mainland and the completion of forest maps and the ratification and completion of the land register will be a precondition for the country's sustainable development. Without them we cannot achieve neither environmental protection nor, of course, create an environment favourable to smaller and larger investors. So it is very important that the plan we are discussing today is very important. As far as the amendment is concerned, the necessity of this amendment emerged because, throughout the territory, a very important issue has arisen in the middle of the current irrigation period with the AEBs. The amendment seeks to modernise a truly outdated institutional framework in order to alleviate the major problems faced by the rural world. In particular, paragraphs 1 to 3 stipulate the new establishment of the Board of Directors of the Smfalia irrigation organisation - Apuou Corinthias and the GFCM Administrative Councils, the general bodies of improvements, as well as the procedure for the secondment of employees of the region concerned to GFCFs, to the general bodies of emergency improvements. The Regional Advisory Councils for Enhanced Works are also set up and the time for processing the requests made to the Observers reach 50 days. In my opinion, it is the content of paragraph 4, which attempts to modernise the institutional framework governing the financial procedures of the bodies responsible for improvements, given that the Agricultural Bank has been abolished and is concerned with modern electronic payment procedures. The institutional framework governing the OEM reserve is also being modernised. This has to do with the abolition of the Agricultural Bank and the possibility of deciding where to place the OEM reserves. Paragraph 6 of the amendment clarifies the cases of public participation in the costs of administration, operation and maintenance of works and allows the public to cover and participate in the prevention and restoration of losses arising from the causes of force majeure and where they cannot be covered by the beneficiaries' own resources, namely farmers. What makes this amendment urgent and more important and comes today in this draft law is paragraph 7. Paragraph 7 allows farmers to regulate their current debts, if they are over-due, with a relatively favourable regulation that reaches all thirty-six instalments and with a relative consistency, but also requires the sending of the debts by TWGs and GFCFs of the over-due debtors to be recovered. That is a measure that will help farmers eventually. It may sound like a collective measure, but it really cannot continue to operate the irrigation period unless the debts are adjusted. Paragraph 8 shall ensure that the legality of the recruitments of the necessary staff are checked and that the procedure is accelerated in one month from the date on which the two staff are recruited. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by saying that the institutional framework governing the agencies for emergency improvements is an institutional framework completely obsolete. It is based on a Royal Decree of 1958 and in no way serves modern agriculture nor the modern way farmers operate. In combination with the "sinner" past of several land improvements agencies in the country, we finally came to a dead end. And they are at stake today, as are the production and farmers who are consistent and, of course, the creditors of the improvements agencies, one of whom is PPC. So this amendment immediately removes the deadlocks and enables us to replace the obsolete royal decree on important points, but it also enables us to win time to create a new, modern institutional framework, which will really help and reduce the cost of agricultural production in the country, which is, of course, a prerequisite for us to have real rural development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Vanja. Here, Mr. Style, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the bill on maritime spatial planning. This draft law deals with three issues: maritime planning, legislative improvements to the production and quality of biofuels and issues relating to the structured environment. Initially, I will focus on the most important part of the bill, which is the marine spatial planning, which affects almost all the population of Greece and the extent of Greece because of our country's morphology. It is therefore important for maritime spatial planning - in my opinion - to be of geopolitical and geostrategic importance, as it concerns the country's maritime borders. We are the country - after Norway - with the second largest coastline in the European Union. It is of economic and development importance, as it relates to the exploitation of energy sources. It is of environmental and ecological importance, as it relates to protected areas. Since every policy regarding the marine space is crucial for Greece, it would be expected that marine spatial planning has been carefully planned. Instead of taking advantage of the incorporation into Greek legislation of Community Directive 2014/89/EU on sustainable development, environmental protection and the simultaneous exploitation of the environment, we are simply trying to avoid the axes of the European Court of Justice and the European Court of Justice. This Directive was already to be incorporated, with the end date of 18 September 2016. In March 2021 the deadline for the completion of national maritime spatial planning is now expired. Our rapporteur, Mr Bukouros, has mentioned the importance of this spatial planning in relation to the EEZ, in relation to tourism and a number of other issues, which have to do with our borders with third countries and, above all, with the coastline and Turkey. In addition, the draft law does not clearly define the policy direction. It simply sets out some general rules in a legal shell, our obligation to transpose the directive. Complete strategic planning, even on spatial issues, does not exist once again by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government appear to have the absolute truth. He does not ask, he does not see what has been done in other countries, does not monitor studies, he does not order studies, he does not exploit them and certainly does not exploit the institutions that exist in our country, such as university spatial planning departments, scientists who can give their opinion, their opinion and contribute to the official advisers of the Greek state. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to another point. In Article 19, the words ‘no more than 7% of the final consumption of energy for transport’ shall be inserted in paragraph 5. This reference shrinks a dynamic industry, such as biofuels. This wording should be replaced by'minimum 7%' in order to boost a purely Greek sector, with potential for growth, such as the biofuel industry. Otherwise, there is a very great risk of shrinking and extinction, causing serious economic consequences for many rural families, who are in danger of losing a certain income in contract farming. So the Greek state itself, while urging the world before, to turn to biofuels and biodiesel, and now put this ceiling on them, is actually putting them at risk of losing their assets. Another important issue, to which you should show greater sensitivity and much greater attention, is the incentives for producing biodiesel from waste. We have a quota system which determines prices for biodiesel and biodiesel from waste. The representatives of the bodies in the committee told you that there is no integrated system in the country for waste collection and treatment, with many and various consequences. Why, today, with the institutional framework you bring, do you not take the opportunity to make an integrated proposal for a comprehensive framework, in cooperation with the institutions of the country, which will be implemented, in order to take advantage of all that is produced? I would even say in the Minutes and in the related proposal sent to our Parliament by the European Agency for the Conversion of Waste into Advanced Biofuels to use and use it. [[At this point, the honourable Member, George Stylus, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the amendment tabled by the Deputy Minister on the extension of forestry maps. From the outset, when the first suggestion had been made by the Minister, we said that this is a very important and very sensitive issue and it concerns, in particular, Greek farmers on the farm land. Then you came, and again you took the absolute truth and had the absolute solution! Extensions and modifications have had to be made, and again today we have another amendment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President. Minister, this is a complex and multi-level issue, and it concerns us and concerns us. I am referring to the fact that there has already been a place where forest maps have been posted, a number of hundreds of fellow farmers, who, while having legal ownership rights - and I am speaking above all of the evacuations made by other respective acts of public administration, the Minister for Agriculture, the counties, etc. in the past - they could not use, accept these lands. A technical problem has arisen. We therefore believe that you should give a solution to this issue. I believe that you are putting yourself in good faith and well-being against this position. Therefore, those who object or make appeals - because there was a great rejection of all administrative acts from the system, because it was not for those administrative acts to be recorded - to be able to come back now with the extension given, so that they could legitimise their land. We are also telling you this: those who did not complain - did not complain because they were not given the opportunity and knew that they would be rejected - to include them too. We say this because there is a very high risk of one and a half million acres of agricultural land finding out of Community aid and Community subsidies, so that producers also lose their subsidies, but also consistently for the future. As the new CAP is now being discussed in the European institutions, the new Community agricultural policy - which will be reduced, because of Brexit and the contribution that was made by Britain - may say to us 'you see, your growing areas are falling, shrinking, smaller, so take total and smaller subsidies'. We expect your position and improvement on this issue. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Style. The Parliamentary Representative of the River, Mr Dannelis, has the floor. Then Mr. Karras follows and we continue with the process. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, as much as the use of the sea and the coast as much increases the need for a systematic distribution of space per activity. The maritime spatial planning, which is a tool and prerequisite for the realisation of the great European strategy for 'Blue Development', i.e. the exploitation of the potential of the marine economy, will facilitate the development of new sectors such as maritime wind energy and the protection of the extremely sensitive marine environment. For its part, the implementation of integrated coastal zone management will rationalise the use of coastal land, which, unfortunately, in the Mediterranean is already 40% structured. It is clear that the role of local government in implementing maritime and coastal planning will be extremely important and in this planning the role of the regions is of major importance, since they have the necessary experience and develop their technical capabilities to guarantee the peaceful and productive coexistence of maritime activities. However, the whole policy is based on the European Union's initial ambition to strengthen ‘smart’ and environmentally sustainable economic growth with a view to 2020, which is also clearly passing through the sea. The areas linked to the marine environment offer opportunities to promote innovation, sustainable development and employment, which are expected to contribute to achieving this objective. In October 2012, European Ministers responsible for the marine environment adopted the ‘Limassou Declaration’ as regards supporting the objectives of the Europe 2020 Strategy through a strong sea pillar. The European Commission's initiative on blue development was followed, which demonstrates the enormous potential of maritime and coastal sectors for economic development in the years to come. The study, in fact, carried out by the European Commission, estimated that the economic size of the maritime sectors would increase by 100 billion euros by 2020, while creating 1.6 million new jobs. At the current juncture, the risk of "blue growth" is more important in the South, in the Mediterranean, in Greece, from anywhere else, because our regions have been hit by the multi-level crisis. However, the fact is that the whole of Europe has a long tradition at sea, while on its shores and seas there are already mature marine sector concentrations. For raw materials they have the sea itself, the shores, the wind, which they have in abundance. In view of this, the European Commission has focused its attention on five economic sectors: energy, maritime and coastal tourism, aquaculture, blue biotechnology and mineral extraction. However, there are other sectors, such as supportive for all these shipping and shipbuilding. Marine industries can also be stimulated if we choose modern policies that favour investment and protect the environment. They should be put under a regulatory framework that fosters the multiplier power of synergies between heterogeneous activities and between new global value chains. That is why, for their part, the European Commission and the European Parliament, in the blue development processes, which I had the honour of being the author and rapporteur of the European Parliament, put maritime planning as a prerequisite for the development of Europe's so-called 'blue economy'. The need for maritime planning also arises from the increased use of coastal and marine zones and the effects of climate change, natural disaster risks and erosion, which also exert pressure on coastal and marine resources. In Greece, with the threat of the erosion of the coasts in the Aegean and elsewhere, as well as the increase in investment in the marine space, we have every reason to put order in the uses of the sea and of course to regulate the conditions of coexistence, even inconsistent activities between them. Comprehensive and coherent management is therefore needed to ensure sustainable development and conservation of coastal and marine ecosystems and for future generations. At practical level, marine spatial planning refers to the public process of analysis and planning of the spatial distribution of anthropogenic activities in maritime areas and the achievement of economic, environmental and social objectives. The ultimate objective of marine spatial planning is to draw up plans for the determination of ways in which marine zones can be used for different uses. The marine spatial planning is framed by integrated coastal zone management, a related maritime planning process, and in particular a tool for integrated policy-making in coastal areas. That is why today's vote on this draft law, which incorporates this directive, is of course only the first step. The unfounded integration of horizontal arrangements through a simple translation of the directive is not enough, but it requires the inclusion of both terrestrial and marine space under a common umbrella, that of the national spatial strategy with a fundamental view to the coherence, interaction and, of course, to the specific characteristics of each region. It is no coincidence that the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union have agreed on the importance of sea, land, coastal activities and their treatment in a coordinated and integrated manner to ensure sustainable development of coastal and marine zones. That tool shall ensure that decisions on management or development are taken in a coherent manner in all areas. Maritime spatial planning is a basis for the implementation of the European blue development strategy, as I have said before. The directive adopted in 2014 by the European Union and we are currently dominated by the Greek delay - the reasons you referred to, Mr Minister, constantly highlights the Greek pathogen, what prevails and determines us on the way to closing the distances that separate us from the other European countries - is a tool based on the recording of today's and future activities. It also takes into account the interests and specificities of the sectors concerned and the impact of activities on relations between them and on the marine and coastal environment. It requires that society be informed in constant dialogue, taking into account that conflict, unfortunately, with some of the actors involved, will be inevitable. It should also be noted that the success of the implementing body will be largely judged by the effectiveness of conflict management between involved actors and local communities and by its overall acceptance, because we know that the adoption of the directive itself at the level of the European Union was not an easy process and demanded painful negotiations. As rapporteur for this directive in the European Parliament on behalf of the Socialist and Democratic Group I have experienced the organised and very hard reactions from various Member States, particularly from the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, which had already drawn up spatial plans and which sought to prevent the adoption of an integrated directive, constantly raising issues of subsidiarity. Of course, many other Member States followed that. However, the pressure exerted by the European Parliament and by the committee has been catalytic in terms of the result. Under the directive, Member States are therefore obliged to draw up spatial plans by 2021. Since maritime activity often overlooks the national borders, the Member States must cooperate with each other in order to better manage the seas and, of course, to make them safer and sustainable, as well as their coastal zones. The special value for both Greece and its shores is thus apparent, since it will be a reference point as a modern policy framework capable of balancing the needs of blue development and the protection of vulnerable coastal areas. Today more than every previous period, it is common to note the need for a flexible, attractive and sustainable investment environment that offers legal certainty while at the same time ensuring environmental sustainability and social cohesion. Only in this way will the economic recovery of the country be achieved and the future of the upcoming generations in our country be preserved. That's all about the bill. However, I would like to conclude with a general comment on the large number of proposed amendments. I have repeatedly appealed from this here to the majority Members to safeguard the privilege of parliamentary amendments, which in no way need to be dispersed by dividing into the service of the executive because this facilitates it for a number of reasons either bypassing the General Accounting Office of the State or by other individual purposes. The respect, ladies and gentlemen, of the separation of legislative powers from executive power is not a type, but is a substance of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly, and the economy in time. Mr. Carras, you have the floor for seven minutes. Immediately afterwards, Mrs Triantafel will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. I must say that today's meeting led my thoughts to the history of ancient Greece and to a particular point of ancient Sparta, where the institution of occultity existed. So let me remind you what that was. They were part of the education of the young Laconians before they were grown up. They were assigned secret missions and according to the outcome of the mission they were judged to be able to receive the adulthood at the respective ceremony or to continue their education. Today, therefore, from the point of view of crypticism, another legal point of view, if you like, of terminology, the 'crypto-industrial amendment', because Members happened this morning to have in our hands a number of amendments of good colleagues - I do not doubt that - but they were very technical amendments which were of a technical nature which were related to issues of energy and quarry legislation. I was, at least for my part, surprised. I saw so much diligence in the amendments. That's how skilled I confess I don't personally have. On the way, however, they were really ministerial amendments, they were not fellow Members, and that is why I have called them, in a new way of legislating in this House, 'critical amendments'. The questions, of course, remain, because regardless of the fact that legislative work is downgraded, what is the purpose of these amendments? I am not convinced that it is just to avoid the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. I see and suspect that there are objections to these amendments internally from the Ministry and the administration and leadership of the Ministry are seeking to go through arrangements that they would otherwise not pass. Indeed, if you want me to comment so that I do not need to take up my speaking time alone, I will say this: one of them, the amendment entitled 'Amendments to the provisions of the quarantine legislation' is the two - three initial pages. What are they telling us? They tell us about rectifying sinful, correcting errors made in the Government Journal Leaflet. But, below all, something else is revealed, namely that with this foreword they want to eradicate fines, they want to pay public revenues, but they do not tell us how much, who they are about and what they are about. I have no objection to the restoration of the environment by arbitrary extensions of quartz spaces. But, if you wish, in the way in which fines are deleted, there are automatic withdrawal protocols, decisions to declare reafforestation, administrative penalties. This is a classic case of unconstitutionalism, because it affects the guaranteed protection of forests and forest land. Let me hope that there will be no appeals, because the debts of those who currently want to benefit the government will be multiplied if the acts adopted and which will become victims are cancelled for the second time. As for this bill, for the framework for the spatial planning of the marine environment, today I have to say that, in time, they are two issues. First, we're celebrating World Environment Day. We also have the President of the Republic who said in a very interesting speech yesterday that 'NATURA 2000', the areas protected, shield European borders. So today we are looking to see whether this directive, which is incorporated into national law, is doing something more than it is. My personal view is that this directive is the result of compromises, it is the result of concessions between the Member States, because it is well known to everyone that the issues of the marine environment and the marine environment are conflicting even within the Member States of the European Union. It is therefore a simple text, which leaves a lot of room for each Member State to solve its problems. Unfortunately, we have confined ourselves only to copying the provisions of the directive, without solving problems, which would be particularly interesting at the present time, when Greece has not defined and does not want or cannot define exclusive zones of sovereignty in the maritime area. I would like to take the example - it is well known to everyone - that when Greece made an EEZ definition with Albania, the same ones who signed an Albanian side rushed to appeal to the highest Albanian court and that canceled it why? Because - it says - the middle line had not been taken, which would have defined the starting point of the demarcation. Oh, for God's sake! Are we neither capable of doing this and allow room to succeed against the interests of the Greeks? I do not want to go into these issues because they concern not only the exercise of foreign policy but, in many cases, they also evade the competences of the Ministry of the Environment. I would like to make another comment, however, on the delay in incorporating this directive, while it is from consultation, as has been said against coral. For a year and a half, then, it has been delayed and, indeed, without any justification being given. What, in my view, is the excuse? They should have passed before, ratified by Parliament, contracts for the concession of marine lands for hydrocarbons and I give the example: on 15 March 2018, Law 4525 was adopted, granting the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in maritime area II in the Ionian Sea. It would be inappropriate to prioritise the plan, at least in sperm terms, of maritime planning, of the spatial environment, so that we know where we are driving or first granting areas and then commit them, so that because of the country's contractual conditions and commitments we cannot resolve the problems that arise in these areas. And one last thing before I close, Mr President. I must say this: it is not just that we are voting for the law late. I must remind you of something else that I have said in committee. For all these operations, which will follow, strategic environmental impact studies must have been approved before. Do we have the time available in the next twenty-four or thirty-six months, until the deadline for voting on spatial plans expires, should we also have the overall strategic environmental study approved and the individual projects? I fear that not and also that there will also be a law on spatial planning, such as many others, a good intention, but on paper. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Before I give the floor to Mrs Triantafyllou, the Minister would like to make a legal improvement. Here, Mr Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u118	A legislative improvement, in the case of (a) paragraph 1 of Article 7 of Law No 4495/2017, amended by Article 34(3) of the draft law, the words ‘Articles 28 and 29’ shall be replaced by ‘Article 29’.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here, Mrs. Triantafel, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. I think that today national issues have their merits, and that is how it should be done. Of course, it is one of the most important issues, but not to open up - to God - in this way. You spoke of EOZ. Many colleagues have referred to the issues surrounding the IOZ. Surely in the fluid and difficult geopolitical conditions - our neighbourhood in particular - it should be an integral part of the strategy of Greek foreign policy, the proclamation and demarcation of our country's maritime jurisdiction, including EEZ, but there is indeed one. The previous colleague, who just came down from the Step, was also mentioned in the case of trying to demarcate the EEZ in relation to Albania, an effort that took place in 2009, but never came to Parliament. Indeed, we have to say that the Albanian constitutional court rejected it. But you were able - and twice, if I'm not mistaken - to bring her to the House. You didn't bring her. And, of course, we all know that it is Turkey's consistent policy to prevent Greece from exercising its rights under international law and there are, unfortunately, fait accomplis. There is one - you will allow me to say - public devaluation of EEZ by many previous governments. Let's remember that at some point a Greek government said it was fashion, that's what it called. Of course, there are many important issues which we cannot discuss at the moment, but I also think that in the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs we are discussing the important issues at all times, and we need to discuss them, and we need to know that there are genuinely, that there are conditions, that these conditions have been signed by specific governments, and that is why account must finally be taken of, and in recent years there has been an effort for solid agreements, for tripartite meetings that result in our geopolitical neighbourhood. Let's go a little bit into the bill, although I'm going to talk in particular about the amendment to the TWGs. However, I shall refer a little to the bill asking: What is today's directive? It tells us that each country should acquire a national spatial strategy for the marine space by 31-3/2012. It is a directive which is not fully clarified in its details, that is true, as it is true that there was a delay. This directive is about a year and a half. Indeed, we can stand up to these two issues, but also to the objective, in the efforts made by this directive and what we are called upon to do as a country, that is to say, how we will not just be able to safeguard the directive, but, in fact, to set up those conditions so that we can implement the directive properly. What the directive is trying to do, and we and everyone must, is that a clear framework must be established so that by consultation, in a scientific and overall way, we can concentrate on a whole - I would say - plan all the activities that are already being developed in the marine space and coastal zone and plan for a decade from now on. We must say this here: we must understand this need in depth. Because today, more than ever, this directive can cure, if properly used, wounds that have left to the body of the environment and, more specifically, to the body of the Mediterranean, which are of interest to us directly, intact neoliberalism over recent years. The Mediterranean's marine environment, sustainability can have an enemy less, when the parties to the Barcelona Convention, the nations - countries in the Mediterranean neighbourhood together fight to restore the environmental burden that has been created so many years since intact, uncontrolled and without any plan to exploit it. I think that the production process itself and cooperation under the rules of international law will be strengthened when competition replaces understanding and cooperation on the basis of sustainability of their seas and production capacities. That is why we could say a lot. But I want to stand on two things: It is heard by the Qualified Opposition that there is a lack of strategic planning. I'd like to remind you of some things. Prior to this directive, before the need to adapt to this directive, there has been a fundamental claim from the result, too, that there was no need for strategic maritime spatial planning. That's why it never happened. Nor was there, I would say, a high interministerial body with strong coordination of spatial planning. The reasons were enough... and uncertainty. In my view, there was no political will. On the other hand, if there is nothing specific, if there is nothing under control it is, unfortunately, much easier for the arbitrariness and because it might have been considered that there were not so serious, at least manifested competitions at national or international level. But today, beyond the directive and the need to protect the environment there is an economic crisis. So there is a greater need for a development perspective. One is that. The second point I would always like to make in relation to the directive is to look a little better at the coastal area. There was never a systematic care. I am talking about the coastal area, precisely because it requires protection and organization on the one hand, and on the other it is a timeless apple, precisely because there are too many activities that are being carried out illegally and at a great cost. I therefore think it is important that, through this directive, it should be clearly seen that the marine space, the coastal area, the cavalry, the kayalitis zone should be treated as a single set and that we should have as a target sustainable development, harmonious relations, synergies and transparency. I shall now go a little bit to the TWG amendment. There has been a lot of talk about the amendments. I'll agree on enough, not everything. Firstly, because it is a situation which has happened in the past too badly, as it is now. In other words, those who make amendments should be here. On the other hand, you all know - and it is necessary - that there is cooperation between government MPs and government. It makes sense. I think what we should always see in the amendments is the content. So let's go to the amendment we have on the TWGs. Indeed, this amendment was dictated by the acute TWG debt problem to PPC. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall ask for your tolerance, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that the TWGs were created through an agreement between farmers, agricultural movements and the state. Self-management went to the farmers, the need from the state itself to create infrastructure was implemented by the state and the money was the Greek people's. So there was self-management, and on the other hand there was maintenance of infrastructure. We must say, of course, that the TWGs must be - unfortunately, you will allow me to say that they did not perform this role - important tools on water management, rewarding, financially self-governed and self-governed. Nothing's worked out of it. Still, I'll tell you what they've achieved. Unfortunately, we have a structural problem, now, in the TWGs for many years and not in the last three years of SYRIZA - ANEL, as I read various questions, positions, etc., by colleagues from anti-population. So there is a structural problem of the TWG, that is, they owed, those who owed - not all farmers, there are many farmers who are consistent and there are many administrations with new leaders, now that they really want to settle matters - and they have asked to wash their debts out of civilian staff. That was the situation, we all know it. I come from Ioannina and could say a lot about this prefecture, which is unique, because there are dams, because it has a special relationship with PPC, because it often calls for compensatory measures and in relation to this problem, while the debate should be more generally about water management, in general, about the absorption of the basins. However, let's go see this amendment what it works. First of all, I would like to say that it has never been discussed in the past on the basis of consolidation, a plan which helps to restore the institutions on their feet. Their debt was developed when the SYRIZA - ANEL government came? I have to tell you that there are initiatives other than this, such as Article 46 of Law 4456/2017, which regulates issues for projects and organisations of permanent improvements. I must tell you that today's amendment, in order not to eat time, is essentially aimed at better collectivity. What do we care about beyond the best collection? And I have to say from the outset that the end does not solve the problem completely. Firstly, there is better collectivity, which they have done - I must tell you - many farmers, many administrations. The debts were going to the tax office. And, secondly, there is a regulation that is important for anti-military works and must be heard: they will be made more comfortable, because it will help the state. Finally, we must say that we are interested in and are trying to restore the TWGs again and return them to the hands of farmers. Farmers know that the OEBs must also work in spite of the difficulties. We are, in fact, trying to solve the problem more than twenty years and plan for the other twenty years. The difference with you, with almost all the opposition, is that we understand that, in order to achieve this, we must rely on our own legs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mrs Triantafyllou. We're going to make a change, as we've agreed with Mr. Javarra. I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Famelos, if Mr Javarras so wishes, so that, together with Mr Xydakis, he can comment on all the issues of the bill and the amendments. Here, Minister, you have the floor. You normally have nine minutes, but I'll show a relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, World Environment Day today and crucial environmental issues, challenges and threats come to the heart of interest on this occasion established by the UN, which reminds all of us, but confirms that the day of the environment is not just June 5. Environmental Day is every day of our lives and our daily choices are the ones that affect, if you want, and show or demonstrate our consistency in environmental policy issues. The 2018 Environment Day finds the global community at a very critical stage of the climate change dialogue and the Paris Agreement, a demanding debate on the planet and its future that must be completed directly with a distinct and pioneering role for Europe. The battle for climate change, as well as the effort to integrate the UN's sustainable development objectives for the global society of 2030, is not just a statement of good intentions, as is unfortunately taken up by the political system. They are a commitment to change attitudes for all of us, to change attitudes for our institutions, producers and citizens and to commitment to change and production and consumption, but also to standards and values of our lives. We as a country have introduced the objectives for sustainable development and for tackling and mitigating the effects of climate change at the core of our country's development strategy. The development plan, which we discussed last week and at the Eurogroup, includes all these forecasts and concrete policy measures, as well as productive reconstruction, based on the characteristics of ecology and the environment, and we welcome the other political forces which, as it turns out, have been in Greece's absolute need for the past few years. Production reconstruction therefore includes and has been successful so far in achieving the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets for 2020. But what we need to discuss at some point in our country is that we remain in a country with high emissions in relation to production GDP. Energy planning, which is currently evolving and within the parliamentary committees for 2030 and the new development plan, aims at a radical reduction in greenhouse gas emissions for 2030 and an increase in renewable energy sources from 30%, which are currently, at much higher rates, close to 50%. However, because a question has been raised many times, probably quite rightly for those who do not read the facts of the government, what this government is doing in addition to planning, I would also like to say to you what we announced yesterday in western Macedonia, that we have succeeded in creating the first European fund for a fair transition, a policy that everyone denounces but fails to implement. So our country has announced that there is now a special Greek fund for a fair transition, which will strengthen the local communities of western Macedonia and Megalopolis, the societies that so far rely on electricity generation and fuel our country with this good, so that there is a fair and smooth transition to the inhabitants of these regions with real funding in the real economy and real jobs. For many years now, ladies and gentlemen, many recompense resources have been going to the regions, some of their experts have been making use of work, while all they have created has been undevelopment, in addition to the serious problems that had been created by previous governments in the incomplete programming that they had done for PPC, as well as in the absence of a plan for PPC Renewables, which they had condemned, if you like, to a minimum rate of production of renewable energy. However, the World Environment Day for 2018 is dedicated to a great modern problem, that of pollution from plastic in direct connection to the European strategy on plastics and the cyclical economy. Our country is also a pioneer. It now has a national strategy for the circular economy, and we have chosen this strategy to be placed on the social partners and on the society of the country. It's in this period in a post. In other words, we are consulted on the cyclical economy. It has already been presented to the Economic and Social Committee and is being presented to the Chambers' Union this afternoon. Our country aims at a new production model whose integral element is the cyclical economy and waste prevention. Furthermore, the national waste management plan, which our country did not have and was updated with our own choice in 2015, aims to use secondary materials and waste as productive resources and useful raw materials giving a sustainable dimension to the production model. Because we, if you like, give priority to recycling with compulsory screening at source and for organic waste for 2018. We have already strengthened the institutional framework of recycling, doubling the recycling resources, including modern projects and green points in the reality of OTAs. We have chosen the institutional regulation of reducing the consumption of plastic bags, which already has a significant environmental footprint on both the market and the environment. We upgraded the role of the municipalities and introduced the measure of reducing municipal fees to the benefit of the municipalities and businesses, based on the efficiency of each municipality in recycling and typing at source. But we didn't just stay in them. We have also intervened in the contracts declared for PPP projects. Because it has been heard here by colleagues from the opposition, because we are signing these projects. However, ladies and gentlemen, as we have seen in the Peloponnese PPP, as well as in the Ilia PPP, it was possible to reduce the minimum guaranteed quantities, to strengthen recycling and to reach a cost to the citizen in half the contracts opened by the previous governments, and also to guarantee the local development and operation of each household. This means that we are actually changing regulations that help both society and the environment. And, of course, in the new bill on local government, "KLITHENI", there are special provisions that release the operation of both municipalities and physics in waste management. The environment is a serious development resource for the country. Our country has so far paid fines. We have created a new institutional framework for management bodies in protected areas. We have included all the NATURA areas in a European list, if you want defenders and the national interests of our country, and we are no longer in danger of any fine. We have linked the protected areas to the local product produced, to work and to development. We are drafting for the first time a forestry strategy in Greece, which aims to produce 1% of the Gross National Product from the forests, from 65% of the land, that is, because there has been no targeting, no programming, no more, nor is work, and we are aiming to return work to the Greek countryside. We are continuing the work of forest maps and in a year already we have managed to ratify 32% of the country's territory, when forty-two years this constitutional obligation was imposed by previous governments had chosen not to observe it, not only by insulting the environment but also by insulting growth itself. Because there was no development background and clear land uses to invest and operate economic activities. We have committed ourselves to being a basic development tool in two directions, ensuring the primary sector and the incomes of farmers and subsidies and resolving another major issue, that of housing densities and the outside construction plan. With parallel initiatives in towns, however, we release public spaces, give them to local communities and municipalities, creating also environmental lungs and public space and mobilisation of the active forces of societies. And this was, apparently, at Tritsis Park, Paul Mela, at the former Camp Kodra, and today the government's legislative initiative to set up the Metropolitan Agency for the Goude Park was announced, which also waited for so many years in ministries. There was a question from Mr Katsafada in New Democracy about how much money we've put into this case. However, despite the fact that I mentioned several economic tools, I must tell you that the environment is not just money. The environment is a quality of life, the environment is a function of societies, the operation of economies. And if you don't create the background for the economy and society to function, then you won't have either active and functional society or healthy productivity. This solves, for example, forest maps. We have an environmental policy plan that closes too many loose ends, authorizing projects that have remained in the Ministry of the Environment, such as the Messochora, for example, the "Xenia" of Skiathos, the winds of Achaia. At the same time, however, we are resolving issues of high and high cost to our country. We have succeeded in financing the country from the European Union by 500 million for the electricity interconnection of the islands. We have a competition for five thousand sixty-six increments in the woods. We have succeeded in reducing the uncontrolled landfills by two hundred sixty, these landfills that charged Greece EUR 80 million fine, to see the economic, if you like, result of this policy. We are obviously creating policies that turn the environmental crisis into a potential for growth. If you think that only in the area of protected areas we invest EUR 17.5 million for specific environmental studies and management plans and 17 million with LIFE, the largest LIFE programme ever implemented in Greece, which we claimed and received from the European Union. Furthermore, if you think of why we have established a protection body, one of the Prespecies, which has been delaying seventeen years in the ministries, or why we have been able to invest EUR 1 million from the Public Investment Programme to eradicate the fines in Lake Coronia and restore the ecosystem. I could say a great deal, but I must also mention the amendments which have been tabled. If you will excuse me, Mr President, I shall immediately proceed to the matter of the amendments. With the two amendments which we have tabled, we are doing the following. The municipality's submission of the residential limits is extended. Unfortunately, more than fifty municipalities in the country, contrary to the rest of the two hundred and fifty with two hundred seventy, have not submitted their regions to the forest maps, thereby creating a serious problem of questioning the rights of citizens. We are therefore prolonging this timetable and, at the same time, we are creating - if you like - a number of extensions for citizens. What exactly is going on in this process? We call on all municipalities that have not completed their obligations next Thursday to the Ministry, so that we can make a programme for each of them with support from both the Stock Exchange and our own services to complete their obligations. We are extending to all municipalities until 16 July to have the borderlines of settlements and densities and to table the legislative proposal for settlements. At the same time, we are giving all citizens an extension until 31 July to object - if you like - to both last year's and so that they are not restricted by the non-declaration of the municipalities of the densities and the limits of the settlements. In practice, the citizen had to object to an area excluded from the post, whether it was in a dense settlement or within a settlement limit. And he didn't have that possibility. He was deprived of the late choices of municipal councils. At the same time, however, this option implements - if you wish - our commitment to forest maps, because the main issue to which we must respond and to which the opposition must respond is whether or not the forest maps are agreed, whether or not they should be made and whether the forest maps should be ratified. Until when, then, will there be extensions? Until when will there be insecurity and incompetence in the countryside? Unfortunately, the New Democracy, which has not been able to take responsibility for starting the process of freedom and sanctions, is not taking a stand either now on whether this process should continue. And this process should continue by addressing issues and not by further implicating citizens. There is a great debate on whether an extension of the objection is given. The extension, however, to the objection concerns the clarification of land use rather than the change in land use. We must make it clear that the necessary instrument for the farmer, who is cultivating an area that is validated or not part of forest uses, is to enable them to apply for ownership or for a change of use on that area and not just to pay any cost to objections or to courts, particularly to the supreme court. And that is what we are regulating now, so that citizens are not misled. That is why, in order to ensure that no subsidy is lost for posted maps now in 2018, either for those posted in 2017, there is the possibility either for areas that have been changed before 1975 or for areas that have changed since 1975, that requests for ownership or for change of use be submitted - what we are talking about - and this also applies with an extension - for the timetable which expired at the beginning of August, to go after two years - which is also given in this law. These are the areas before the 1975 Constitution, which can also be settled but not hide the problems. Real agricultural farming must be reflected and there must be - if you like - the organisation and support of subsidies. At the same time, we are extending the opposition committees to have completed the examination of objections up to twelve months after the ratification of the remaining section. This is to keep citizens and farmers from waiting and, in general, - if you like - for the local process and for a limit to guarantee citizens. I have already referred to the extension of the discharge. It's until 8-8-2020. I shall refer a little to the amendments to the other paragraphs of the amendment. As regards the question of the Green Fund payment procedures, for a long time, unfortunately, no paid wages are paid for overtime in the framework of a poaching prevention programme. And we are talking about decentralised administrations and General Forests Directorate for 2016 and 2017, which have not been paid overtime. We were committed to a meeting with them and I had replied to colleagues from other parties who had asked that we would resolve this problem in time. The fact is, we're solving this two, three months late. We wanted to bring this regulation in February. This regulation has the approval of both the Regional Fund and the General Accounting Office of the State and has had to be carried out with precise legal treatment, so that there is no problem of incidents and identity with the wage, payment rules and the rules of assurance of that amount. That is how this is solved. At the same time, the right to use building permits, the legality of permits and the buildings on them for grassland is guaranteed. Because Law 4280 had only solved it for forests and forests and had problems with the owners of grassland who were a level - if you would like - with less protection, but had not been solved. So this also extends to the vegetarian areas. At the same time, existing sacred temples, shipwrecks in woodland, adding the NATURA, because in an amendment tabled by a Member, it did not have both definitions. This is the way to resolve the issues of temple aids. At the same time, we are dealing with existing irrigation, sewerage and waste water treatment projects in areas of a forestry nature today, so that we can obtain authorisation. They do not exclude licensing, but existing projects can be licensed because only new projects, and not existing ones, could be approved. At the same time, we are changing the age limit for hunting guards, because today it was only allowed up to thirty-five years and we are doing so up to forty-three years with at least three years of service. On all these issues, I had informed the committee that it would be aware of the amendments we would be tabling. Finally, the amended provisions one of them relates to the adoption of gas distribution licence regulations in the content of the management authorisations in order to ensure the independence and functional separation and non-discriminatory and non-discriminatory behaviour of the holder, and also to the content of the licence regulation, the time for adapting the licensees already to the content of the new licences and the definition of the method of monitoring and control by RAE of the resale of natural gas by time customers. With these amendments, I think, ladies and gentlemen, my own intervention is being completed. Obviously, I believe that they are well-defined and functional for the benefit of all citizens in a non-discriminatory manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Minister Famello. Mr. Javarras has the floor for twelve minutes. Then we will give the floor to two speakers to have the list run. You, Mr. Xydakis, follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are celebrating the Environment Day and I think that the historic occasion is not a celebration. Rather those who really believe in the universal effort to upgrade the environment should, on the occasion and at the opportunity of today's anniversary, come to this step and formulate a meditation, formulate a thought, be cautious. And instead of listing us all these very serious, supposedly, reforms that have taken place in our country by the current government, I think they should explain to us how it is possible with these logics, as is the one behind the words of the bill that is being introduced to vote, it can withstand any serious effort to have another attitude towards the environment in the future. Because, Minister, what you really should explain to us today is how you will contribute so that society comes to a new quality of relationship with nature. This is the call for us to get out of the current difficulties, which environmental pollution and unnecessary exploitation have indeed led us to a dead end. I would just like to remind you of a very big intervention in the 1990s by a French philosopher, Michel Sher, when he had thought very innovative, that no one in Greece seriously faced the so-called natural contract. Indeed, today, more than ever, the world, the planet, the governments and the states must gather together and go one single way, namely, the invention of a new relationship between nature and society based on new values, which will not only enjoy satisfaction, with the governments concerned, being listed before the parliamentary measures or listing numbers. We are talking about a project of values and not about an account or a planning of numbers. And above all today, Minister, you should have brought along with your celebrity mood and a style of parliamentarian that would be absolutely consistent with what anyone from this Step once said that SYRIZA is every word from the Greek Constitution. Because this Constitution today not only abuses it in the worst way, but despite our so far objections to this smuggling process which your Government has had over the past three years, we have also been able to see a new quality worse. Regrettably, as previous colleagues have said, which texts have been written either in your Ministries or in some other offices, you are getting Members' signatures, and here you come to tell us from the Step of this House what you are accepting and what you are not, when you know very well or at least should have known that these amendments should not have been introduced into Parliament. Because that is what Article 74(5) says. "Appropriations that are irrelevant to the draft legislation under discussion shall not be allowed to be discussed." And I wonder who has this courage systematically in this House, to introduce amendments that are irrelevant to bills. Who finally has the nerve in this House to violate and abuse the Constitution by systematically introducing delayed amendments? The worst of all, Mr President-in-Office, is who has the disrespect to the people we represent in this Chamber, to table and introduce to the House amendments which are not amendments, because on the basis of Rule 88 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure it is an amendment to an order or article in the draft legislation or an addition to a provision or article in the draft legislation. I would like you to tell me which of these amendments you have brought today, either your own master or here your chosen colleagues, satisfy this provision of the Rules of Procedure of this House. Which of these specific amendments you have brought are such as to introduce additions or modifications to the provisions of this bill. All are laws or provisions of other bills that have been passed in the past and within a short time - Woe! - bring them here to amend them, because you obviously do not have the courage to admit and admit that your legislation has failed. For example, Article 34 of the bill. You are bringing us an article here and, in fact, you are doing nothing but modifying with more than forty paragraphs all the provisions of Law 4495 that you brought six months ago, and which you called heavy beads and with a lot of tombs "Control of the construction of the environment". Yes, congratulations! Today you proved how seriously, in November of last year, you faced this particular obligation you had against the housing environment. But there's something else. Here, Mr President-in-Office, in this House, it is not just for the laws or amendments to be passed. Here they come, first of all, to discuss. And you both, today, came to this step to celebrate how much - indeed! - Legends you are, in terms of your offer to this place that made the mistake of honoring you with its confidence three years ago and you did not suggest or at least did not give us a trigger to understand that you were involved in the debate of the bill. To what of all the objections raised or raised today, did you give an answer? You listed ten, fifteen, twenty pieces of legislation which, as I have said before, prove to be lacking because they are all written and do not take into account the real needs of society. And the worst of all of this is that, in addition to Article 34, I was listening to the colleague who gave us lessons about what TWGs are and, of course, it is to say 'God for what I hear!'. So I heard today that the TWGs are institutions which were founded in the struggle for the agricultural movement and the state. Obviously none of you bothered to see that the legislation on land improvements is the legislation of the Middle War and it is, in fact, an institution for self-management of projects that was transformed from France into Greece on the initiative of the state. Unfortunately, precisely because it did not come as a mature demand for the Greek people to grow up in a process of the agricultural movement that would make it more responsible, the management of these very serious and valuable institutions has been so bad in Greece. Because neither the governments of post-population nor the people who, in democratic procedures, are called upon to serve these institutions, have clearly understood what needs are needed for these institutions to be cured at last. I have heard it say, for example, that farmers are not paying, and that is why they are having problems and that is why there are poor local bodies of backward improvements. But has anyone been able to deal with whether on the nets on which this matter exists, the board of directors or the president can be fully recovered? Since at least in the things of the Prefecture of Elijah that I know in the plain of Elijah, fuelled by two barriers of Pineion and Alpheus, only 30% are cultivated. Others have abandoned everything, or at least half of them do not appear anywhere, and each president is obliged to go after the debtor's rifle, the one he owes to take money from him. And these, of course, at a time of incredible economic crisis, which your own government has done, and which is inviolable for the farmers whom you have exaggerated, and which you have imposed great insurance contributions on them. That is why there are debts and that is why there are problems. But you alone in two directions cannot take the courage you need and the responsibility to legislate: First of all, towards the farmers with regard to the TSEs to whom you promised that you will give the opportunity within a hundred and twenty instalments to repay their outstanding debts, but a week ago you have taken down the power switches of the dams and already in the great caves of Elias and other parts of Greece, farmers are at the forefront of total bankruptcy, because their crops at the beginning of the irrigation period have begun to show signs of destruction and turbulence. The second, of course, which you have also not dared, and I have repeatedly asked you questions on this, is this. You do not dare to settle the outstanding debts of the borrowers that the banks arbitrarily call as strategic bad payers and you, unfortunately, adopt these. A citizen clearly owes a credit card - a debt that you injected with 25% - and has a house and does not want to give in to the bank's debts requirements, is a strategic bad payer. And you left-wing democrats are adopting this. Why don't you dare bring a provision here to set this up? Who are you afraid of? Cyprus imagines under the regime of Memorandum Restrictions in 2015 has legislated a provision that any of the bankers would divest in the way you legislated last year on the claims from the loans, previously had to call on the debtor, under the same conditions, to pay him. And that's why you're not talking to us, you've left a regulatory autonomy in the banking system. Finally, let me tell you something why you're an economist. Minister, in fact, the banking and credit system is necessary to get the place out of the crisis and to get the economy back into operation, but not any banking system but a banking system that respects its mission, which will receive citizens' deposits and fuels the national economy, and above all - that is the most serious - it will not sell investment products, it will not addict the citizens of this country to gambling, nor will we of course see bank ads that sell insurance. It is not the purpose of the banks, it is not the mission of the banks. However, not even the responsible management of the supervision of credit institutions speaks much more than you, the government-sponsored government. How long will this story continue? Until when will the banks and all of them be inconsistent in satisfying basic needs, which the economic crisis has now made them inevitable, inevitable? You need to respond here and you need to take the initiative. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. Mr. Arachovite has the floor for seven minutes. I imagine that those of you who have left the SYRIZA parliamentary group will be brief too, so that you can go up and up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u126	That's right. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment is another important piece of legislation for our country, our country that holds the eleventh place in size worldwide in the thirteen thousand sixty-seven-sixty-six miles [700 km] and with a very large number of islands. Harmonisation, therefore, with the European framework, gives the impetus to go further and to plan the future of our seas and coastal areas through a modern institutional framework of integrated placement and management. The spatial planning is the first step for any productive or other activity. In order to do this, however, there should be a strategic plan for the development of the space. That was, ladies and gentlemen, in my view, the problem of the previous governments that they did not want to formulate, as they should, a clear development model. And why didn't they want to? Very simply to perpetuate the unregulated situation in the space, in the forests, in the seas, everywhere. This lack of framework, with each type of 'grey' zones, served all kinds of days and finally left the necessary space to perpetuate well-known policies with client lists and "bargains". But such as the subject of forest maps, land registers, the establishment of the NATURA regions, and the subject of marine spatial planning is now being raised. And it is now because there is a political will, the will that originally led us to establish the maritime protection areas in December 2017 and today to move forward in the planning of the marine space. But you will allow me to dwell on the points relating to rural development of the bill and the amendments. There is a great debate about the development role of biofuels in our country. It has already been made clear by the committees that the 7% rate of biodiesel is technically maximum. She can't go more than 7% for technical reasons. There is no question, therefore, that this percentage enters with a view to limiting the development of the industry. In the draft law, however, it is reflected that sectoral policies are dictated primarily by objective conditions, in which it is the main and undeniable need for accessible and quality food for people. Research and technology today have shown roads to manage many by-products for the same purpose, i.e. for the production of biofuels. Our country also has the opportunity to innovate in this area in alternative ways. As a result, it will neither be claimed inflatable from the productive land for the production of biofuels. Finally, with regard to Amendment No 1609, for TWGs and for voluntary improvements, which we are proposing, I imagine all my fellow Members understand the real need for immediate regulation. Because we are all taking on protests about the many problems these organisations face, many of which are typical examples of a lack of management and a timeless economic trouble. I must remind you in this Chamber that the services of the previous governments have been abolished, which have done a great deal of work in water management and have been carried out by highly qualified scientists. While the governments themselves gave the OEBs to the municipalities to function, in the end, many of them as "days" service tools and to get rid of any possibility of scientific support, regardless of any good intentions for - and good - decentralisation or more contact with water users. We have found them indebted, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, precisely because there were all kinds of service there and not production of work. Let us remember and stress that for us the overall development of these agencies is a debt to the rural world and the whole of rural society. Since today is the World Environment Day, water management - agriculture is the largest water consumer - it is crucial for the future of agricultural production itself and for life in the countryside. Today where climate change is here, management of water in a scientific way and not a customer is an undeniable necessity. We have therefore broken the sinful bond and restored the land improvements agencies to the regions so that they have better scientific support, control and supervision. We are doing this, as are the changes with this amendment in this bill. With this amendment, too, we are dealing with issues of cumulation, such as the procedure and the commissions for recovering debts in favour of the bodies of emergency improvements. It is envisaged that the debts in question should be recovered when the possibility of regulation cannot be found in another way, which, of course, many conscientious bodies have already done so, and which is why they are better placed than others who have been indifferent. Appropriate payment of the certified debts in instalments shall be granted to the landlords. Why is that, ladies and gentlemen? Because a part of the agricultural world after the sale of the Agricultural Bank and the financial hardship that exists in the country since 2010 has been having an objective difficulty in serving its debts. We must not ignore that. We must also remember that abandonment of production agricultural land in the 2000-2010 period reached 30% of the production land. So you understand what TWG dynamics are. All of this will therefore give a strong impetus to the overall functioning and economic viability of the bodies responsible for improvements, in order to respond to their present and future role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr. Arachovite. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and seven educational sessions from the 12th Larisa Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Vayonakis has the floor. Then there's Mrs. Kafantaris, and then Mr. Xydakis will be closed by the SYRIZA team.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a country with sixteen thousand kilometres of coastline, with an insular character, we can only say the obvious: today's bill is very important. It is a bill that concerns both the environment and the development prospects of the place and - I would say - it also touches our geopolitical interests. This draft law completes the institutional framework for the country's spatial planning, which unfortunately - as is customary in these cases - has been disproportionately small in publicity. For the first time, however, we are attempting to make a very important contribution to maritime planning, since we must not forget that a number of critical activities such as transport, fishing, tourism, energy, mining of mineral resources, management of our coastal cultural heritage, management of NATURA marine areas, which reach 20% and others are developed in the marine and underwater space. The main objective of the bill is to lay the foundations for the analysis and organisation of human activities in the marine and coastal areas, in order to ensure harmonious coexistence of actions and uses, by applying an approach based on the principles of sustainability. It is very important that we are discussing in a uniform way and interacting with the marine and coastal areas. From this point of view, I think, as has been said in committees, that the management of the coastal area, in my opinion, should not be a matter of the Ministry of Finance, because what we should be interested in is not only the economic benefit, but also the protection of natural resources and the environment. Of course, spatial planning does not only regulate land use or land use. Of course they do. At the same time, however, they are necessary development tools, such as the tariff or the land register. So we all understand that the legislation that is being introduced is necessary to shape our future and our existence and to prepare it is something that should have been done for years now. Unfortunately the previous governments chose not to have any tools and policies in place, that is to say they should not have a plan and a clear development model. For our part, we have shown that we are leaving behind this environmentalicide and distorting anti-development model. That is why we dare and proceed with things that have been stuck for decades, such as forest maps, land registers, the establishment of NATURA, etc. Of course, time doesn't exceed. And we're already late as a country. But it is not just the timetable set by the European Union. It is also the advantages of the changes that force us to speed up. It is the objective of sustainable development in the marine space in order to make the use of jobs harmoniously. They are establishments and infrastructures for research, exploitation and extraction of mineral wealth, the protection of biodiversity and marine cultural heritage, scientific research, tourism, the enhancement of productivity and investment with transparency and rules, and in particular the achievement of all of these with the proper use of resources. To this end, the competent authority is the General Secretariat of Spatial Planning and Urban Environment of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, which will proceed to the relevant decisions after consulting the relevant ministries, local authorities, other public authorities, individuals or collectives of interest, taking into account the fact that the coastal and marine space is more complex but also more vulnerable, as it does not have the same durability as the mainland and also does not have a border. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the second part of the bill is concerned, we have the incorporation of European directives on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. The aim of these arrangements is to encourage the use of new advanced biofuels not produced from edible crops to achieve a higher level of consumption by 2020 of these biofuels. Provisions include, inter alia, the possibility of contributing electricity to the movement of vehicles, the possibility of contributing biofuels used in air transport to the obligation to reduce emissions of pollutants. The obligations of suppliers of fuels are regulated in relation to the penetration into the wholesale and retail market of biofuels for transport use. While the regulation on the introduction of compulsory blending of biofuel gasoline with a view to further promoting the use of energy from renewable sources in transport, in the context of national and Community policies and the mandatory energy share target of 10% in 2020 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Finally, the third and final part contains amendments of a legal nature relating to the protection of the structured environment and an amendment on the extension of the deadlines for the reductions of the single special premium for the settlement of arbitrary structures. And one can observe that the time that has taken place since the drafting of the bill to date for the structured environment is not great, it is small, but on this point we must note that the Ministry has taken care to hold meetings with bodies, chambers, with local authorities and citizens in order to be able to distinguish in time any uncertainties or malfunctions through the implementation of the law in practice and to proceed directly to corrections. It is precisely this wide-ranging consultation that we are called upon to vote on today. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, as in the committees and at the meeting which took place last week with the institutions, there was a very constructive debate in which there was a consensus in favour of the main guidelines of the bill. After many years we have had a legal framework not a fragmentary but a total, which attempts to prevent it from jumping. It is therefore important to provide support for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Vagonakis. Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Five June today, World Environment Day. It is not a day, as we have heard, a celebration, because this has also been heard in the Chamber, but it is indeed a day of reconversion, reconstructing and militarisation of humanity in the great challenge concerning climate change and the environmental consequences. I will not go into what has happened over the past three years with this government, and both of the ministers have been very extensively mentioned, just to say that we have a long way to go. Steps have been taken until we reach the point that the dimension of climate change and the environment is effectively permeating all spheres of social, economic and political life. What's an environment? According to Einstein: 'Environment is what is not me'. In this sense, human, activities, natural forces, biological and abiotic characteristics and their relationship is involved in the construction of the building that we understand and say as an environment. Today in the Greek Parliament we are debating here in plenary, World Environment Day, a serious bill by the Ministry of Environment and Energy on maritime spatial planning. Beyond the need for geopolitical, economic and development policy, this bill is very important and environmentally important, because the marine space, our shores, really matters. We are a country with perhaps the largest coastline in Europe. The coasts are under severe pressure, not only from the unregulated structure and the human factor, but also from the consequences of climate change. So, in trying to get our country out of the memorial throat over the eight years, it has set the main goal of attracting investment and, indeed, foreign investment. Foreign investment is essential in this country. Investments, however, and investors demand that there be a project, that there be stable conditions, that there be a spatial plan, rules, conditions and limits to invest. Development laws have been passed all these years. There was anarchy of growth. But when there was no spatial planning, there were always problems. Spatial planning is a development tool, such as a serious tool and forest maps, such as the tariff, the land register and all that is being done at this time. If these were not there, the customer relationships of decades - I would say - will continue. That is why it is essential that all this be done. Maritime spatial planning includes the national maritime spatial strategy, which is the general framework for maritime spatial planning and follows marine spatial planning projects, which are individual projects. The national spatial strategy, which is the umbrella for the marine area, sets out, firstly, the strategic guidelines for maritime areas and coastal zones aimed at sustainable development and, secondly, indicates the need for maritime spatial planning plans. Maritime spatial planning is a means of implementing an integrated maritime policy of the European Union and is associated with the completion of coastal zone management in the context of land and sea interaction, in accordance with the Protocol on Integrated Coastal Zone Management and in accordance with the relevant provisions of United Nations Conventions on the Law of the Sea. However, I come to the second part of this draft, which incorporates directives amending Directive 70/1998 on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and amending Directive 28/2009 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. The draft law aims to encourage the use of new advanced biofuels, which are not produced from edible crops, to achieve a higher level of consumption of these biofuels by 2020. It is therefore promoted to improve controls. At the same time, however, the obligation to mix petrol with biofuels, in particular bioethanol or bioethers, produced from organic alcohols, is laid down, starting in 2019 and providing for an increase in that obligation. I will come here to say two things because it has been heard here in plenary today about biofuels. I would say to some people that in 2010 the distribution, which existed at the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, was a hundred and eight thousand tonnes of biodiesel and three hundred and ninety thousand tonnes of bioethanol. But what happened? Bioethanol was not produced. I come now to say that biofuels - to be a little crowded, at least I am gathered - will not say that it is a panacea for the battle against climate change, because there is also a matter in relation to the emissions of gases, if taken into account - something that has been done so far and it is a reason why the United States has reduced the proportion of biofuel fuels - the changes in land use, deforestation and evacuation, The European Union, in agreement with the European Parliament, limits the use of first generation biofuels to 6% instead of 10% by 2021, gradually directing all the funds to the aid and subsidy of second and third generation biofuels while encouraging the production of second generation biofuels from residues, waste, synthetic fuels using Fischer- Tropsch method and third generation from seaweeds and nanoweeds. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. These methods are very promising, since for the production of second generation biofuels a biomass is exploited from agricultural and forestry waste, so that they are not competitive with food crops. Many efforts have been made at this level in recent years in Europe, namely Austria, Norway and the Netherlands. Also important and revolutionary are the efforts to use the organic residue of urban waste - either self or in a mixture - with other raw materials for the production of synthetic fuels. In conclusion, I would like to say once again on the criticism made many times and on today's bill and on the opposition, 'what have you done for spatial planning, for all of this?', let me say that it also has an element of self-criticism - and I would say - of some modesty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantaris. Mr Xydakis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. We are at the end of a meeting at which, with all the objections and reservations that have been raised to the individual, I personally did not hear any serious reason either to question the feasibility or the completeness of the regulation on maritime planning. I think that all the thought and conclusion of any discreet citizen who is aware of the situation in which the country is found and in what state in 2010 - unscathed, not only financially and economically, but also as a productive establishment, as a production plan - could not question that the basic conditions for the rational development, the sustainability of this country, the sustainability of the economy and its resistance to international crises require certain elements, which, unfortunately, in many years of plastic or existing prosperity, in the years of post-population, in the years of the major growth rate - in whatever ways they are achieved - are still lacking. There is a lack of a comprehensive regulatory framework which is simple, clear, functional and sufficiently stable and adapts to the new needs, which would also allow the healthy development of domestic forces, domestic investors, domestic professionals and entrepreneurs, but which would attract serious, healthy, so-called good investment from abroad. In spatial planning and the development of areas of settlement, industry, crafts and agricultural production, major steps had been taken. After 20 years, the register has reached 20% to 25% of the country's real estate coverage. The Forest was completed last year with the legislature and fortunately progressing quickly. The tax system, unfortunately, is still archaic with a documentary system, which in a social transformation is still affecting patients and insecure. To give justice, which also relates not only to the normality of social life, but also to the normality of economic life, unfortunately, according to a Commission report issued a week ago, we are negative champions. We have ten-and-a-half years to give justice, to finalise a case from the European Union's average. This is about the framework of economic life and productive life in the country and so intact, invertebrate found us in the international crisis of 2008, 2009, and the country collapsed. The end of this historic adventure we hope to be in the coming months. For the environment itself, however, for which the current government is envisaging legislation, such as this one on maritime planning in an overall national planning, and on the occasion of the World Environment Day for which other colleagues have spoken, it should be understood, in our living example, by our own education, that it is not a romantic utopia, a fantastic capital, to which we refer as hippies, but it is an essential, with economic value, capital for economies and societies, and above all, to make it understandable that it is an irreplaceable repository of life. At this point I would like to draw attention to the ministers for the mass installation of the largest wind turbines that have ever been in Greek territory, the peaks of Agravian, the most inaccurate mountains, the southern end of Pindos, the most remote mountains of Hellenism, the soul of Hellenism, the neck of Niallas, which is a milestone for modern Hellenism, where the government army met the rebels in 1949, the one thousand eight hundred meters, and wind turbulent wind turbines in total of eighty meters, for which roads, earthmoving, bearings, construction and high-voltage network, which will irreversibly alter one of the most valuable repositories in the Greek peninsula are required. Recently, I've been informed. Many environmental organisations and local communities are aware of this, they are aware of the Members of the regions and Evrytania and Karditsa. I would like to draw attention to the Ministry of the Environment to this ongoing and potential major crime at the expense of the largest ecosystem in the Greek peninsula. Let us make a final point about the bill, because time passes and we have other tasks as Members of the European Parliament of vital importance, national importance. The long-term request was made to the committee by the bodies and MPs of the opposition parties on how to manage biofuels and to introduce biodiesel into the system for producing recycled pan-oils. The Minister acknowledged that there is a door, which enables some scientists to trade in stocks, whether existing or non-existent, and trade in cards and to resubmit indisposed balances from past years in the new year. The Minister recognized this, Mr. Stathakis. He had one argument: What are we going to do? We're going to destroy them at huge environmental costs? The answer is, obviously, never anywhere in Greece nor in the whole world are pancakes destroyed. They are sold at a lower price, without the guaranteed price, the preferential price guaranteed by the allocation. If, therefore, a development policy, which is right by the SYRIZA Government, the left, is to create the regulatory framework, which will allow pure competition, without unfair means, without loopholes that pierce and recycle papers without existing stocks, the conditions of distribution must be respected, only the pan-oil collected from the allocation each year must be exhausted and, if one is very active and collects larger stocks, it must sell them to trade, at the lowest, unprotected, unprotected price. It's pretty simple. No one's going to destroy anything. The paper trade will simply be destroyed. Let this be done, let the Minister make sure, in second time, that he corrects both the legislation and the old joint ministerial decision, which leaves this ambiguity and leaves loopholes. There must be no sign, no suspicion, no shadow that, because we do not have a good control mechanism as a state, we leave them unclear and what is happening. With this final comment, the appeal to the Minister, I conclude with a reminder to the many, intense and colorful voices, particularly of the Officerial Response, which speaks of an overall plan which the present government is trying to put into the productive reconstruction of the country, with all these difficulties, with all this ruin that it has received and with all these huge unfinishedness, the huge gaps in the unscrupulousness, the huge gaps in arbitrary and wickedness on the part of the political leaders and is criticising a three-year government as if it is responsible for the seventy years of the post-war. I would therefore like to remind my dear colleagues that both the counter-indulgence and arbitrary and distorting growth and the rapid deindustrialisation - particularly after the 1970s and 1980s - and the lack of armouring of Greece into the global division of labour and in the era of the eurozone has not been the responsibility of the present government. It was made under the responsibility of past governments and by body of mistakes, by worship of the Stock Exchange, by worship of structured bonds, by worship of the scandals and “logue” and, ultimately, by worship of a deeply divided and polar speech. I only remind you of how the government received and delivered it in January 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u133	Thank you to Mr. Xydakis and to the economy in time. Mrs Arabaji has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a draft law on maritime spatial planning, particularly important for a multi-lateral country, for a country of sixteen thousand kilometres of coastline, as we have the pleasure of being our country, a country that has been inextricably linked to the sea, which has been historically and continues to be its economic lung. The bill under discussion in the first and most important, of course, concerns the integration of European Directive 2014/89. Because I have heard several general and unfounded suggestions from the government majority, which also calls for the paternity of incorporating these directives into the directive, I will say that this directive, ladies and gentlemen, 2014 establishes the framework for maritime spatial planning. For this directive the former Government of New Democracy worked with court, since all the negotiations for its adoption were concluded in the Greek Presidency in June 2014, when of course you, SYRIZA, were fighting the directive. This explains why the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has delayed to realize the importance and the need for spatial planning and for our seas and is coming late, with about two years to incorporate the directive, under pressure from our country's referral to the European Court of Justice. I would remind you that on 7 December 2017 the European Commission referred Greece to the Court of Justice on grounds of non-incorporation of the framework for maritime spatial planning. Greece was the only country with Bulgaria that did not respond to the deadline of 18 September 2016, as they had to, with the consequence that the Commission should impose a daily penalty of EUR 31,416 from the date of the decision, until that Directive is incorporated into and entered into force in national law. In addition to the fines, however, the government with its certainty undermines the country's development potential. Furthermore, your choice to limit the management of maritime spatial planning to the Ministry of the Environment only, defining as the competent authority the General Secretariat of Spatial Planning, clearly demonstrates the fragmentation of your political thinking for such a vital sector for Greece. You are a government that does not realize - or, rather, realizes it with enormous delay and under pressure from judicial decisions and forthcoming judicial decisions - that maritime spatial planning touches multiple sectors of the economy, which are the most extroverted, the most exporting ones, which are those who bring money to our country, namely shipping, coastline, tourism, aquaculture. I would like to refer specifically to aquaculture. It is a sector which, over the years, Greece has taken the lead at European Union level and, until now, we were first in the world in the production of cigarettes and seabirds, with Turkey going beyond us recently and now in the second place. It is a sector of importance for the Greek economy that after four years of recession manages to re-enter development, of course thanks to the painful and persistent efforts of the farmers, increasing production by 4.7% in 2017 compared to 2016, an increase of 2% of the value of sales and volume of exports by 10%. The government's significant delay in implementing the spatial planning for aquaculture, i.e. the delay in the establishment of those organised marine areas within which aquaculture units, so-called 'WHO', will be the biggest threat to Greek aquaculture. I shall now refer to the amendment on forest maps. First of all, I cannot comment on another blatant case of your government legislating almost a week ago through the appropriate and present Deputy Minister, Mr Socrates Famelou, told the committee of the amendment on forest maps and almost a week later, that is to say, in plenary today, the amendment was tabled only a few hours ago. Of course, the greatest evil is not delay. It is that you do not understand the problems and the consequences for the rural world of your failures and unacceptable procedures. And, of course, because, in your friendly tactics, you will be rushing to drop the analogy of your indebtedness in the New Democracy and claiming that we do not want the forest maps, I will answer that of course we also want them, but not as a means of pointless suffering for the traders, not as a new raid, not as a new opportunity to tax on the backs of farmers and farmers, which you have literally devastated with your policies. In my speech to the committee, I said that the two-month deadline for the objections to the buy-back we made, as well as the five, six days we expected to see on the paper, does not solve the problem at all. And I say 'Nevertheless', because if the government bothered you to ask what is going on in the forests, but also at the gates of IACC, it would understand the minimum percentage of farmers who have entered the process of claiming on the one hand because of the unnecessaryness in many cases of bureaucratic suffering and on the other hand the heavy costs that this entails, which even goes beyond the value of the fields. As a result, there is a serious risk that whole areas will be abandoned, not declared new year in 2019, in the crop declarations, that subsidies will be at stake and, of course, that the abandonment of the countryside is at stake. There is a risk that subsidies will be lost at a critical time, when the most serious developments for the new common agricultural policy are apparent, the general reductions in the budget of both the first and second pillars, and in particular the tightening up of the framework for the performance of these aids both in the first and second pillars, with the new model of delivery and the annual national strategic plans. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I will explain - I will need a minute of your tolerance, Mr President - for your unacceptable procedure. It is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen of the government, because in all its manifestals - manifest error, objection, redemption, approval of intervention - the state actually questions itself, the administrative acts it has adopted and the burden of proving these legal acts, at the cost of bureaucratic and economic, to the citizens. Examples include the legacy of reafforestations, distributions, expropriations awarded to farmers and farmers under the legal title of the Directorates for Agriculture. By pulling out these parcels of forest or penguins, you invite the beneficiaries to make a manifest error to prove the legitimacy of the titles that the state has given them. We are talking about a manifest error without the end, but of course at the cost of a topographer, engineer, file, minimum 200 euros. And, of course, after they make the obvious mistakes, the system rejects them and leads them to objections. I'll give you an example of a breeder. He has a licence to establish and operate a flockhouse since 1998. It has a licence to legalise building work on this area. And the photo-interpretation takes him out of this place as a forest and invites him to enter this cost-effective process to prove that these administrative acts he has in his hands are legal. It leaves the obvious error and goes to the objection. There, of course, is the end. It is EUR 90 the submission fee for fields up to five acres. And if the farmer has five such heirs - he has this misfortune - he has to pay EUR 450 only for the end, apart from the cost of files. If it has 100 acres in dispute, i.e. an average property, it must pay 700 euros only for the end. Well, I can tell you that they are hundreds, not to say more, the farmers who say that their property costs less and does not go into the process and abandon the entire effort. The above procedure, of course, could be avoided even though only the Forest Directorate would take the legacy of the legacy from the Department of Political Earth. The same problem, of course, arises from property property from property ownership in areas which are neither distributed nor resurrected, and the property regime is not clear. Whole agricultural parcels, Minister, in the Serres Prefecture, from which I come, are in this situation, as are other prefectures, and there is no direction from the forest office and any legal service for what they are doing, and no one can assure the citizen that, by presenting the documents and paying the fee for the objections and the others, it will ultimately be justified. As far as the acquisition is not concerned, in which some people are able and want to resort, firstly, to prove ownership in the above mentioned cases, pre-75 and the IACC statements, as you know, have data from 1996 onwards and, secondly, the purchase price is not entirely clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u135	Mrs. Arabaji, you've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u136	I'm closing, Mr. President. Thank you. Of course, we are not getting a final and concrete answer to the fate of farmers' subsidies and the risk of abandonment of rural land from the official lips of the Minister for Rural Development. This is a very serious matter. To sum up, I say the following. Helmets derived from reafforestations, distributions, expropriations, any concessions from the Ministry of Rural Development to exclude the obligation. There should be a total fee per beneficiary and not per parcel, so that farmers can move forward in this difficult economic situation. In villages where there were no land registers, procedures to start with the completion of the property register. And where the objections have been raised since last year, Minister, the ESDP services to resolve the disputes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Arabaji. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-three students and students and four teachers - their attendants from the Vaupetro Municipal School of Chania. The House welcomes you guys.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u139	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u140	Because I understand Mrs Arabatzis' concern, I just want to inform her about this. Indeed, the time to submit the objections was too short and too great the fee of objections, but also the cost of changing the use and concession of ownership. All this was legislated between 2012 and 2015 when you were a MP. The suspension period was only for forty-five days, ladies and gentlemen. Now it's eight months. The opposition fee was reduced by 80%, while the previous government, to which you participated, had voted very expensive opposition charges. In fact, the most important thing is that the cost of the farmers getting the land, what we call the land outdated, was reduced by 83% and a hundred doses, when the previous government had introduced one-off in advance and five-fold than is currently the case. Indeed, we must support the primary sector and do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u141	We would have the grazing land from 2017, if we were government, which you were going after 2019!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u142	Mrs. Arabatzis, you don't sound. Now Mr. Jellonis has the floor. The Serres have their honours in the Chamber, first with Mrs Arabatzis, now with Mr. Jelloni, Mr. Megalomustakas, as well as Pella with Mr. Sahinides. So, it remains northern Greece to complete it. Here, Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor not to be placed on the bill on maritime spatial planning, which is harmonisation with European directives, but on another subject. Last night at eight o'clock, a parliamentary amendment was tabled for the TWG and GFCF IMPs, which marks the management of water use by farmers for their own self-managed organisations. A draft bill, while so far we have had the coup d'état of the amendment. How does the government understand the legislative work? It seems now to be legislating on bills that Members of Parliament are taking as an amendment. While we have been waiting for three or four months, as the Minister for Agriculture said, he would bring this bill to the House to discuss these important agencies and how they will work, we see that he does not even have the courage to bring the Minister on his own signature, so that they table it as an amendment. Why did they bring it now? On the other hand, for the first time on the part of the Government, the Ministry responsible for cutting the current at TWGs at a time when farmers must meet the needs of their fields and their plant production for water and be at risk of total catastrophe. Following the repeated questions we have asked about what will happen about the fact that the current has been cut off on many TWGs throughout Greece, we have received an extension that still applies for two - three days. With this amendment you do not give an integrated solution for what you will now do with the TWGs that you must do. Will you continue this 'downloading switches and I have no current for farmers'? You're not only punishing those who didn't pay. You are also punishing the well-paid and driving whole regions of the country outside production. Why don't you bring in a solution? What are you going to do with it? Will the hundred and twenty instalments apply, as promised? Oh, no. No answer. Should we now, while discussing the draft law, discuss the law that you have brought about the functioning and modernisation of the institutional framework of the TWG and the GFCF? Not at all. We cannot accept that. It is a gypsum and does not guarantee the operation of TSEs and GEIs, as you are concerned about, in favour of farmers. Since today is World Environment Day, what is the government's interest in using water for irrigation purposes? This bill? Oh, no. I'll tell you what it is. The fact that the Rural Development Programme today excludes small and large-scale projects from being irrigated, because the Government has delayed the two heresy for water management, recording the water catchment logging and invoicing of water. At the moment, they cannot join the Rural Development Programme, when half of our rural networks are of the pharaonic age and 50% of the water is lost on the way or falls into the sea. I would really like an answer, Mr Minister. What plan do you have to resolve TWG's financial problems in terms of their debts to PPC, what timetable and how will you solve it? Here in the bill is provided for up to two years and then notified to the DU. After all, your great interest in farmers is only tax-driven and tax-driven. What are you gonna do now? I would like to have an answer. The whole rural world is anxiously awaits the entire rural world throughout Greece, from Crete, the Peloponnese, Thessaly, Macedonia, how you will solve this TWG problem. And you bring a genograph about what's going to happen from now on. And that's very rough. I would like the Minister responsible to be here to discuss this. It does not provide for anything, for any modernisation of these agencies. Besides, the fact that this year farmers - for 2017 - were unable to meet their obligations towards the IMPs, that is not their fault. It is the result of the anti-agricultural policy of the SYRIZA coexistence - ANEL these three years, where farmers have been financially impoverished by erosion and tax evacuation at all costs and all measures have been cut down to reduce production costs. I have heard from a colleague that you brought this bill from the great interest shown by farmers. I would ask you not to be so interested in farmers, because you have destroyed primary production.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Jelloney. Mr Shahinides, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor. Mr Megalomoustakas is next, we have the seconds from four colleagues who have asked for and will be closed by Minister Stathakis. Here, Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. However, I would also like you to make a point at the Secretariat of the Bureau of Parliament, because it has already passed and asked all the parliamentary representatives whether they will have second thoughts, except me. This is the second time that this is happening and I have made an observation before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Shahinides, the special speakers asked about a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Amyras is not a special buyer. This has been done on several occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Panayotarus wasn't here, so that's why you didn't ask. For God's sake, I'm clarifying, because I asked them to come down and ask who they're going to answer. If Mr Panagiotaros wishes to give a second answer, I would be very happy to do so. He has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u149	We therefore have the draft law on 'the establishment of a framework for maritime spatial planning and other provisions'. Design of an institutional framework for spatial planning without an EEZ declaration cannot be established. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] We have heard several times that our country is a small country. No, ladies and gentlemen, the land borders of Greece together with the seas are larger than France. The sea can feed our country by 80%. It is a place where you should take care of completely differently, because if we take an example from the way you set up the land planning in December 2015, we believe that it will be another destructive bill of your co-government. Because of the examples we have - although it was voted in December 2015 as I mentioned - the decision to implement the landfill had been taken by the Regional Director of Central Macedonia, Mr. Djijkostas, excluding the Prefectures of Halkidiki and Pierre because they are tourists, but they are totally devastating for the rest of the central Macedonia. And if I'm talking about my own territory, Pella, it's about the closure of over five thousand businesses. If the spatial planning framework for maritime planning is the same, you are wrongly going ahead. We heard from the spokesman of SYRIZA Mr Kafantaris - and even at the time he was speaking, the Minister responsible, Mr Stathakis, who was losing his mind, but I would like to say that investments and investors are interested in and are waiting for the planning of spatial planning first. The Minister should answer us, as an economist, that investment and investors, above all, are interested in whether a stable tax framework and a low tax burden are introduced so that it is attractive. We also heard from the Parliamentary Representative for Growth and Sustainable Development and that the Greek economy would not collapse if there had been framework plans for our country to be shielded. You forget, gentlemen, that our homeland collapsed from the false evidence that we were put into the memorials. Let me turn to the amendments, and I shall refer first to the ministers. In Amendment No 1602, with a special number of 193, we are naturally in favour of remuneration for the overtime services of officials of senior agencies and bodies, but we do not understand why this arrangement comes after two years. It is true that the salaries of the abovementioned staff have not been paid for two years - since 2016 - and have been a result. Therefore, they should, of course, be paid. Of course, we have a reservation, as clear reference is made to the respect of the budgetary objectives of the medium-term budgetary strategy programme, that is, the memorandum, which means that there may be a reduction or the higher amounts will not be paid at all if the objectives are not met. However, we shall vote'representations' in this amendment. In Amendment No 1603 and in Amendment No 94, the European Union is drawing our ears on matters of residence of citizens of third countries and, in fact, imposes on us its own policy. Everything is in the hands of citizens of third countries, as paradoxes are reduced for issuing residence permits for most people. This would not necessarily be negative if it concerned citizens of the wider European area, namely countries, who have not yet entered the European Union, who most of them come to Greece for studies, for work or for other activities, possibly supporting our national economy. But it is also about invasion citizens, who, even if they do not declare their presence to the authorities, escape with a paradox of 100 and 200 euros. Unique light bulb, the imposition of a paradox on employers who wish to employ citizens from third countries. We believe, however, that the paradoxes are very low and that the black-working regime with illegal immigrants, which prevails, will be a drop in the ocean. Moreover, the employment of citizens of third countries who are illegally entering the country should be banned completely so that the unemployment of Greek citizens can be tackled first and foremost. We are of course voting against the amendment, because it will legitimise even more smugglers, with few fines. Moreover, Greece should be able to draw up its own national strategy on immigration and not drag behind the European Union every three minutes. As far as Amendment No 1610 is concerned, I would like to say the following: This amendment, Mr Minister, should be five different amendments or five articles in the bill, because of the five proposed provisions we disagree vertically and fully with the first and while we agree with the other four, we are obliged to vote 'the present'. We disagree with the first, with the definition of terms, conditions and necessary measures to ensure the independence of the operational separation of the licence holders, following the authorisation to manage independent natural gas systems and the residence permit and the authorisation to manage a distribution network. The distinction between selected and unselected customers is abolished. The supply of natural gas shall be made to final customers and the arrangements relating to the resale of natural gas shall be repealed. We agree with the second provision, where it says that the sacred temples, the meadows, the sacred monasteries and their auxiliary areas, located within protected areas of NATURA 2000, as well as works which serve irrigation and sewerage built by the OTAs. We also agree with the third provision, which refers to the age limit for hunting guards, which is increased from thirty-five to forty years, with an essential three-year pre-service. As regards Article 4, which extends the deadline for the submission of objections to the content of the forest maps up to 31-7-2018, for those which expired in the period 30-5-2018, it is extended for another two years, i.e. until 8-8-2020, to submit an application for redemption by the holders of public forest land, exported for agricultural use before 1975. And because you do not answer the questions, Minister, I will tell you that if you listened to us and if you answered the questions, you would avoid too many problems. With regard to forest maps, one of the reasons why the municipalities do not ratify is that too many farmers - and this was reported to me just two days ago - have charged them with grassland while they have landed animals and have had to pay them. It's absurd, and there's too many of them. If you don't answer us, I think you're listening. In the fifth provision of this amendment, where forest legislation applies also to grassland, rocky and rocky areas, which have lost their forest character before 11-06-1975 and are not declared forest or forest land and are not declared resurrected, we support this amendment. We shall vote 'the present'. I shall refer to the amendment with a general number of 1611 and a specific number of 201. On the subject of electronic town planning, we had expressed positively in the debate of the draft law on the structured environment, but we cannot see that this delegated provision will lead to further delays in time, and it does not resolve systems interoperability issues. Therefore, a tool that could be positive for the Greek public and engineers remains on paper. It is recorded as your intention to implement, but it will never be completed. With regard to either the collective bodies or the exclusive handling of documents electronically, we have expressed our objections and the proposed amendments do not seem to resolve the emerging issues. Continuous authorisations to the Minister shall not ensure that the provisions or the completion of the required electronic systems are applied briefly. I shall now proceed to the amendment with a general number of 1602 and a special number of 202. Small wind turbines may be installed, but once again by ministerial decision, all the necessary and necessary details for the implementation of the provision will be laid down. It is envisaged that the parking area of the Athens Concert Hall can be exploited by collecting a fee for part of the parking spaces, while at the same time taking care of the parking needs of the organization's staff. We are also voting against this amendment. I shall refer to the amendments that you have accepted. It seems to us here that of the ten amendments tabled, the eight that you have accepted, they have tabled almost two Members. So they are not parliamentary, they are ministerial, they are simply signed by the MPs. It is no accident, therefore, that these eight amendments, which were all signed, as I have told you, by two Members, have not been dealt with almost never before by other parties. However, most of them, we do not understand why you did not submit them as ministerial, since Amendment No 1600 was being examined by the Ministry of Environment and Energy in March, following an earlier RAE proposal. It concerns investment projects, which have moved forward, have received approval of environmental conditions, but have not taken the connection conditions, so the saturation declaration is in the air. We would like to know which companies are concerned with and exactly what investments. We would also like to know: how local societies react to this plan, Minister? Regarding the amendment, number 1601, RAE had already decided on 29 March and was published on 10-5-2018 in the 'DIAGY'. But we would like to know the financial costs and when exactly this ministerial decision will be adopted. Parliamentary amendments Nos 1605 and 1606 were part of the previous prerequisites and we pointed out the need for them to be examined separately. Whatever energy stock exchanges we find opposing, because we do not accept that energy is a commercial and not a social asset and its value is a gambler. For latto legislation, the changes that you have obviously accepted concern, as you say, inadvertent references. In your rush to prevent time, but sacrificing the crucial issue of quarantine legislation, you are resorting to these amendments. The amendment under number 1607 is not accepted, as it is unacceptable for public limited companies, which occupy a proportion of the Greek State, to be appointed in the office of administration, without a meritless procedure, even the minimum dignity and transparency offered by the AACC, only by the strategic investors. Amendment No 1609 is replaced by a number of provisions, with the main aim of changing members of the board of directors, in particular non-attached ones, so that the administrations of these agencies become more friendly to the present Government. The other provisions are of no importance. We are voting against all the parliamentary amendments. Before I close, I also wanted to make a reference to tomorrow's rally, which takes place in thirteen cities in Macedonia and not just in Kavala, Serres, Drama, Kilkis, Polykastro, Lagada, Nea Mudania, Edessa, Florina, Kastoria, Ptolemaida, Katerini and Pella. We participate independently, only with the Greek flags, so that once again that the name of Macedonia has no right to haggle it. But here, there were some graphic statements from government officials, which you might want to collect, or at least look at doing history lessons to them. Statements such as the Deputy Minister for Rural Development, such as the Prime Minister's advisor, Mr Karanika, such as Mr Toska, are statements which are verbal violence. And verbal violence, often, unfortunately, also brings physical violence. At some point, it must be known and understood to everyone that violence, whether verbal or physical, is no longer violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Megamystakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will start with a phrase which may not be appropriate in this Chamber. However, it is certainly not the way you legislate. I will say that in the way of legislating, which you have chosen to operate, they laugh to the stones, as we have seen amendments coming at the last minute and this is happening today. And they are not simple amendments. These are multi-project amendments, perhaps, which come at 11.30 p.m., at 13.00 p.m. and at 13.15 p.m. today. We even have Parliamentary amendments, which came last afternoon, at around 20.00, on matters that are very important, as my colleague and my fellow Member said, are issues on which the government was committed to discussing as a bill. Let's go see some of the amendments. Let's go to the ministers first. I shall refer to what concerns the revenues of the green fund. You want to get the green fund revenues to give overtime and nights of employees, of course, who go for the ministry's purposes. What's the ministry doing? Why doesn't that take over the expenses? We know very well that the resources of the green fund should only be given for specific purposes. You also come to adjust the heights of the offenses. You know very well how difficult a financial situation is at the moment for all Greek citizens and you, in this way, come in this amendment, to reduce the state's revenue. Why? Do you think these strategic investors, who are the only ones whose paradoxes are growing, will be so many that they will be able to overcome the lost money? We have seen what the consequences of immigration are in the Greek economy. Why do you come to add another weight to the hump of the Greek? We are now going to another multimodal policy, which we would call it a procedural one. She is the one who regulates the issues of the DESCRIP, but also many others, which we cannot vote for, because she came to 13.15 ́ today. Would you like an amendment of this size, of thirty pages, which we know very well that banana peeles are hidden in all your amendments, in all the provisions, in all the articles, to be dropped and pressed? There's no way these things you're asking us to do. It's tragic. And the ministerial amendment that comes from Mr Stathakis and Mr Famellos is characterised by many details, which should be discussed in a different form and certainly not in the form of an amendment. Nor can we vote in favour of the amendment which has a positive element, which is the operation of Electronic Building. But you come back to change the laws that you voted on a few months ago. You are amending a law of 2017. So you want to say that you are ruling, with a policy of'seeing and doing'? Let's go to the parliamentary amendments. God make them parliamentary, as most of us think they come from ministries and you probably want to avoid the General Accounting Report of the State. Many of these, we cannot support them, even though they did not come today, but after the committees, on the first of the month. Many of these - as I have said before - we see that they come from ministries and they hide traps as you want to appoint your own. And at the end of the day, I would like to mention the amendment concerning IMPs, where at the end - I hope you will deny us - in paragraph 8 you are making a conversion. You turn a small proposal, which was in line with a previous provision, where to get an intake the region came to check the need for recruitment rather than legality. In other words, you will send them the intake and there will be no reason whether there is a need for him, who is in employment for the structure in question. Why change the term "necessary" with the term "legality"? We'd like an answer. I wish we were wrong. Although this amendment, as it has come, we are in no way going to vote in favour of it. Other parliamentary amendments come to correct mistakes you have made in this year's bills in 2018. One of these is the amendment that you want to approve the budget for the energy stock exchange. This is also the case with Amendment No 1599/190 giving an extension. The Parliamentary Amendment No 1600/191 is incomplete. We are sure that after that you will be forced to bring further amendments. Because these amendments are not dealt with. In other words, one day - I believe - in the very near future, we will vote for an amendment which will solve a problem that you have brought today. I will now say another amendment - to prevent me from speaking about the bill, as has come from committees and then - which concerns quarries. Here, in the last paragraph, we very much fear that you will come to favour photographics from some of your own. Should there not be a well-designed policy on quarries? You know how rich our country is in looks, how we should take advantage of them. And we are constantly coming with this policy of your amendments, to correct what is not corrected in this way. Now let us continue and point out the mistakes that we hope you will not make any more. Sadly, however, in recent years, as long as we've been a Centro Association in this House, no matter how much you have been able to hear from us, you have not been able to hear from us. Errors start with the title of the bill. You are talking about incorporating into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/89 of the European Union ‘a framework for maritime spatial planning and other provisions’. It's not like this. You include two other instructions than the one you refer to. These are three distinct parts, which make up this bill. They are not any other provisions. In fact, they are directives that we should have implemented a long time ago. The first part of the bill relates to the directive in its title. The second part relates to two other Directives of 2015 that refer to the obligation to reduce greenhouse gases, and there is Directive 2015/652 that wants to regulate issues of the quality of petrol and diesel fuels. And we have the third part, where once again this bill comes up to correct a bill passed in 2017. He did not vote for it, you voted for it. Of course, we are afraid that the harmonization with the European directives, in particular the first directive, which is also contained in the title, will not take place in the timetables to which you set out that it will be done. You have shown us that you are constantly blocking and that you do not have a plan that will convince us that it will be on time and we will not have any extra fines. We have too many fines from the European Union because we are not in line with European law. I have even said that you had a body in your hands, which saved too much money from the Greek State and you came to abolish it. In fact, this directive was in consultation by the end of 2016 and you bring it today, in 2018! May I remind you what is going on with another bill that we are discussing this week, which concerns the Ministry of Education, and which has been left for ten days in March in the consultation and in a month - in forty days, so as not to blame - has it come? And here we are talking about directives, something that we are getting from the European Union. After you have been so late to bring it to plenary, we are very afraid that you will not be able to keep the necessary timetables. We are now going to the other two directives, which are the second part of this bill. As far as the directive that we want to adapt to European law - and that is right - regarding the quota of biodiesel in fuels, because we know very well that the refining of biodiesel is far more expensive than normal fuels, we are very afraid that the cost will be borne by the Greek citizen. I don't see a place to make sure it doesn't work. The gasoline is almost two euros. Our islands have gasoline at two euros. Do you guarantee to any of us here that this cost will be used, by reducing taxation, say, on fuel? I haven't heard that. Finally, in order not to abuse my time, as I like to be typical even in this, I cannot understand the third part of the bill - because we had warned when you brought the bill in 2017 that it was not what you should have - how you now come to regulate some issues, in such a way that the only thing you want to earn is perhaps some money to strengthen your state funds. You have so far proved that you do not have a social policy plan, despite what you say, but a tax. You are constantly burdening the Greek citizen and, unfortunately, you are not even looking forward to the positive effects you have expected, and in no case does the development come, which will take us out of this pit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u152	So do we. Mr. Cameroon has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to finish and let me make an assessment. From the positions of Anti-Population we understood that no one dared to say straight that we should not vote for the Marine Spatial Planning because it is useless to us etc. But here, let me say that hypocrisy and feasibility have been left behind. It is precisely because we could not hit the bill at its core in two-thirds of the year when the Opposition took place, he told us from how the amendments were made until we were late, and so on. Let me speak briefly about the amendments. In fact, with a very intense look, the New Democracy Parliamentary spokesman told us that we have a courage, which we are bringing in amendments which have nothing to do with the bill. But who are they talking to? Those who, over the years, even overnight, have voted on provisions which have nothing to do with each other, and in this case, the Minister has introduced amendments, even those which do not seem to be directly related to the bill relating to the Ministry. And I say to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative that even this amendment, which comes to the forest maps, is necessary. It is also some amendments, which relate to dates. Do we have a lot of nerve to bring her in, and we're analgesic? I don't remember exactly what words he used, but very heavy. Also, is the parliamentary amendment, which comes from colleagues, which regulates issues arising from the application of the Social Control Zone until the implementation of the General Urban Plan, irrelevant to both the Ministry and the bill? Let me not mention a whole lot of other amendments. Of course, there were some who had a clear problem of time, which we had to catch up with. This is done and there is no feasibility, contrary to what we have experienced over the past decades. As for what has been heard, that we have been late, I think the Minister was clear and made clear what we were doing in these two and a half years, in terms of spatial planning and the environment. And who are blaming us again for that? Those who, over decades, had not built any of these developmental tools and for a favoured country. I shall end, Mr President, on the question of whether or not the bill should be voted on. Whilst, in other words, they were not placed and were not succeeded against the core of the bill, at the end some people ended up saying or "without reservation" or "I vote vertically". I have to say, therefore, that at the end of the day, those who have voted against nothing but to vote in favour of the regime, which has been in existence until now, of lawlessness, of any design, of any possible nature, of any nature, of any rhetoric, of clientele, of illegality and all that has worked for so many years, and that, in the end, this design with the necessary tools, as I said before, the tariff, the landmark, the spatial planning, may not be socialist, it may not be what we would like to see in a different society, but it is appropriate for some to vote against them in the name of whether they are institutionalised, whether the European Union is adopting directives, to which we are adapting them, or the SYRIZA. To know, then, that willingly or not to serve the regime that existed up to now, with all that I said before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, too. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. I too should like to begin with the amendments, although I can see that the Deputy Minister for the Environment has left. It is a pity, because this is the only amendment, the number 1610/200, which we shall vote for and then explain why. We are voting against all the other amendments, ministerial and parliamentary, despite the fact that we do not disagree with many of their forecasts and with some of them we do not agree with all of their contents. However, with this vote, we want to emphasise, with emphatic and intense emphasis, that this way of legislating must finally be stopped. Many colleagues have spoken of cryptotypes, crypto-industrial amendments, amendments, which are already being ordered by the ministers and signed by MPs and so on. We must be more enthusiastic in these options. I explain why we are voting in favour of Amendment No 1610/200 and the arrangements it brings, this amendment by your Deputy Minister, mainly for reasons of parliamentary order. I would remind you that the Minister came to the first meeting of the committee, explained which amendment he would bring, came to plenary today, was placed on the amendment and gives us no right to encourage such parliamentary practices. We encourage them. Secondly, we support them on the substance. And I come here to say what I said in my place. The legislature doesn't say much about it. Indeed, the country's forest map may have been posted at around 35%, but it has also caused most of the problems. Mr Famelos attacked Mrs Arabatzis and said 'the fines and the paradox you predicted were great'. It was, however, very different from the degree of forcedness of our own provisions - I mean the previous government - that is, it was optional to involve farmers, Minister, while today it is absolutely forced. Because they will not only lose their subsidies, they will lose their own property if they do not come to what your own laws provide. And while the Forest Maps Act itself has a philosophy, that the actions of the administration are not restored by this law, it comes the essence of things to annul the actions of the administration. What's up today? Of course, it does and gives more time to save some subsidies, to decide what to do, what to use, whether to object. Here too, intervention is needed. It needs ministerial decisions and clarificational circulars, your deputy finally recognizes all administrative acts at least before the 1975 Constitution. Because what's going on today? While the bill claims that it does not restore administrative acts, it appeals either to the Committee on Probable Errors or to the Committee on Objections, the farmer, and there the administration itself, does not take into account the administrative acts, rejects them for formal reasons and pushs him to go to the next tool or to the buy-out, such as the desire and will of the government, in order to obtain some money. That is unfair, because we are talking about areas which have been transferred three, four times, have been taxed in any case, and I say the characteristic examples of expropriations and drawbacks with authorisations from the administration - by decision of the administration itself. It is not the administration itself today to cancel its own acts, because the law may be incomplete and because it provides only for the results of reforestations and settlements. The Minister said some things. I would like to believe that you will pass on to him and the required ministerial decisions and the clarification circulars, because from now on, as long as the deadlines are over, each case becomes almost unique and from pushing hundreds of thousands of farmers into the Council of State, it would be better if it were legal, constitutional and without any discounts in your policy, to solve this problem. Let us say, Minister, if you had mapped the grazing land - because you say that you are producing legislation - as we were committed by 31 December 2017 and had not transferred it by 31 January 2019 and given a new extension, since you say that the technical committees can consult by March 2019, at least we would have saved farmers from this story. The grazing land would have been mapped and it would not seem forestal, as it seems today. So incomplete production of legislation creates serious problems. I hope that we will not go into a purely tax-supporting policy and jeopardise the whole of land and their overall reduction, because this will also create great problems in the whole of subsidies and the revision of the new common agricultural policy in 2021, where our partners and, above all, the new members are calling for much more. For all these reasons, despite the fact that you do not solve the problem and because we hope that it can be solved, if there is a political will towards the rural world that it is struggling for, we will only vote in favour of this amendment. Mr President, the bill has become an exhaustive debate in the committees and today in the House. We shall, of course, vote on it and many of his articles will be voted on. But we have also expressed objections to the committees and today to the competent authority, to the timetables, together with the provisions of the bill and to what you announced in the holistic programme to the Ministerial Council, so we will not be able to vote in favour of some articles. We asked for a technical change in Article 19 - the provision also exists in Article 17 - to put biodiesel into conventional fuels, diesel, to be from 6.9% to 7.1% for transport by 2020. You told us it was a purely technical term. Biofuel producers are concerned. They give money to farmers who do not cultivate land of high productivity. You were able to solve it in this technical way and are all quiet, both producers and farmers and the market. You choose to stay at 7%. I close by saying that maritime spatial planning is a very important issue to simply address it as the transposition of a directive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, too. Mr. Arvanitides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President. Unfortunately, Mr Xydakis, the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, is missing because I wanted to remind him of a few things. We were re-elected as an old party system, the "first time left", which taught lies, delusional, hallucinations, cumulations, whatever a person can say. Of course, according to Mr Katamero, he has had no tools that he has been building for three and a half years now. It should be remembered, however, that the period since 1981-1989, that is to say seven to eight years - half of the three - was a period that set the social state, plunged democracy into the country, gave dignity to half the Greeks. This period must therefore be balanced with the period 1989-93. Is that the same thing? So when the period came from 1993 to 2000 and became Greece of the works, the Olympics, the Rios-Antirio bridge, the metro, the road axes, is the same period as the period 2004-2009, which "paid" public finances, has created this unprecedented deficit, which for some reason you forget? So to restore the seriousness of the debate. Because I'm the one who's taking time to see what the choices were. Because if we don't do that backwards, we're not going anywhere but complaints. I should now like to come to the 'first time on the left' that it legislates. Now, finally, that's a joke. I'll bring you two examples. The Honourable Minister spoke here of an amendment which he had not tabled on hydroelectric. In other words, he developed something he hadn't testified from here. The second thing is that so many people, extremely young people, I believe, with training, - over ten Minister's partners are here today - in the report on the arrangements for the consequences of Amendment No 1612, on pages 27-28, are developing five series of regulations for the IGM, which do not exist. I quote: “Finally, the arrangement concerning the calculation of the remuneration of officials of the Institute for Geological and Mining Research, EGME, is necessary in order to comply with the decision number 113/2017 of the Ice Bay (B2 Political Division, NoB 2017, p. 631) which considered the second cut in Law 4093/2012 to be unconstitutional in the salaries of staff serving in the PPPs of the public.’ You describe here on pages 27 and 28, regulations which do not exist in the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u158	It's a trailer from a next bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u159	So this is the first time left. This is the seriousness, the screen legislature, the new example. This is the serious legislation, which creates an institutional framework, which solves the malfunctions of the past, serves and clears up the complaints of the old system, which legislates and has made amendments - 'commodity - accountability', which is now 'hidden - amendments'. Let's get this over with, though. We must become serious, legislate, draft bills and heal whatever issues. This is a challenge. Here we go. I am one of the first to recognize these efforts. With Amendment No 1602, to say a few things about the amendments, we will agree, because it relates to supplementing the provisions of No3889, which refers to the objectives and responsibilities of the multi-faceted Green Fund. Basically, we accept that the resources that go through the Ministry and the region are properly linked to actions that serve the purposes of the Forests Special. One must explain to us, however, about the consistency you say, Mr Kamaterre, because since 2015 you have had to make it to 2018, to regulate the payment of overtime and overnight staff. What was that about? Of course, they are entitled to the workers, who also have mobilizations. But you've had two and a half years to give them. Huge progress! These are the quick reflexes and the new mode of operation that will lead us to the future. One must also tell us what the overtime is, so that we can understand, as much as we can in the minimum time available, what you are legislating for. In Amendment No 1603, someone could say 'the present' in the first and 'yes' in the second provision. So what are we doing here? We're adjusting because we're losing money. We are increasing the paradoxes, we are balancing the system, but, in essence, this is not a way of legislating. With Amendment No 1599 you are giving a deadline for harmonising the General Urban Plan. This helps businesses - I recognise it - but we must finally end with the extensions, in the context of the new challenge you say, Mr Kamaterre, in order to impose legitimacy. So we can see this as a last transitional provision and we cannot agree to it: 'and it can be further extended'. What's that supposed to mean? That we gave an extension to the design we have, etc., but can we extend it as long as we want? Those of us who have another perception of regulation are suggesting that we do it once and for all. In Amendment No 1600, we will say'represent' and perhaps 'yes', from the development of the debate. It is the amendment for the energy islands and the release of space for the energy communities. In fact, we were in 'the present', but after the Minister's explanations, I think we can go to 'yes'. We'll vote for it. But the question is why three special pilot projects and not more. Now, what are we looking for? What details? What projects do they involve in the Peloponnese, which one in Evia? This is a serious debate that can be held when we discuss bills and details.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u160	And what companies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u161	What about all of it? In Amendment No 1601 we say 'yes' to criticise. It is the amendment to temporary compensation from the RES. You have legislated since 2016 the feed in Premium for RES producers and you have not made the applicable laws so far. Sooner or later, are we going to deal with this? And what happened? The result was that the new stations could not be compensated and that you were forced to bring such amendments to the vote. A new way of legislation, which would show seriousness, would be to draw it back and make a serious piece of legislation, which we should bring to the vote. In Amendment No 1604 we declare that we are present. The amendment concerns the transitional supply charge for non-interconnected islands, as recently. In Amendment No 1605, concerning amendments to the provisions of the quarry legislation, there are formal corrections. We'll vote for it. I would like to dwell on Article 15, which is very important and in the right direction, as it gives a solution to an old problem, which was really afflicting the world. 1606 is an amendment to the budget for the Energy Exchange. The question is why to draw up this and not the new body itself. For these projects, there should be a recommendation from the General Accounting Office of the State. In Amendment No 1607 we say 'yes'. It is the amendment to allocate management positions to a public limited company a strategic investor. One must tell us who the bodies for which the AACC is to be circumvented. Is it just IPTO? Is that the D.C.D.? Are the ELPEs?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u162	Mr. Comrade, your time is up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u163	I think I'm actually talking. I'm gonna need some time. I've been here since this morning and I'm rapporteur. I'm trying to really do my job.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u164	The sooner someone comes, the longer they count? If that's the case, we can bring it to Parliament's Rules of Procedure. It's a very original thought.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u165	No, the more pressing you legislate and bring in at the last minute, I have to be precise to this House. If you want, give me a minute. I'm not asking any more. I'm one of the people in this Chamber...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u166	Okay. You said about SYRIZA's story before. You have reached some point in the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u167	Of course, I had to return Mr. Xydakis to the same descriptions as he did. Amendment No 1609, which concerns the TWGs, has been tabled by Mr Gélez Généralez on why we are not voting on it. The other ministerial amendments which, although some regulate technical issues and correct situations, cannot be voted on as you have brought them. In Amendment No 1610, Amendment No 1611 and Amendment No 1612 we are voting 'at present'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u168	Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u169	You have described, Minister, a series of legislation that you have promoted throughout this period. Of course, they concern urban modernisations linked to the further liberalisation of social goods and state-owned assets given to capital and their profitability. Of course, much has been done by previous governments. You're the ones who keep going. In this context, therefore, the activities and modernisation were neither anti-military projects nor earthquake protection and other projects involving people's regions, neighbourhoods or, of course, the needs of people's blocks. That's right. You satisfy the needs of capital rather than the people, as did the previous ones. It's your own strategy. It is different, of course, and let the representatives of the other parties who were government-sponsored psychopaths for the people today. The same strategy was followed. As far as the amendments are concerned, it is challenging the way and the mockery at the time you speak and describe your Ministry's amendments to present them so that we can read them. Even the elementary democracies are pedestrians. Only for that reason would someone vote against them. Of course, we are also voting against the contents. It shows the government's consistency in satisfying what ensures a new scope of action in the profitability of capital. You guarantee them everything, up to a plaster for the right of strike, as is done with 'COSCO'. Today, he took the workers to the courts to get their strike out illegally, that is, the only right they have left to claim. And what do they want? They demand a collective labour contract, recognition of the heavy and unhealthy work of their profession, and safety conditions at work, not to make a blemish of terror, and go out crippled before their time. It is well known that the accidents at 'COSCO' are a lot and let them hide them, as they take them off the street and call for an ambulance not to be recorded in the workplace. However, as long as you do not like them, the workers of 'COSCO' have known all these last few days the solidarity of trade unions from all over the world and condemn the terrorist practices of the Chinese monopoly. As far as the Parliamentary amendments you have tabled are concerned, and they are among the Members of Parliament, we certainly have no problem with who they are, but we are voting against them, like the three government amendments, because they relate to the extension of time limits which photograph specific business interests and, of course, they also favour the liberalisation of a number of areas. With regard to the extension of the deadline for objecting to the content of the forest maps, although we have no objections, but the great shortages of staff and the few committees to examine objections will force you to ask for new extensions and I do not know when these forest maps will also come out. We are also voting against the specific amendment containing others, such as the complete liberalisation of the gas market, but you are also changing land use by declassifying forest land. We are also voting against new blackmails to farmers. Without criteria and specific controls, in each case you are showing that all farmers do not pay and send debts to the tax agencies. You blackmail them to unleash PPC and privatize the water. But it is well known that there are many cases where it is not the farmer's fault. In Kopaida, for example, there was no maintenance of the irrigation network and flooded fields. Even people could not grow, and then huge bills came to pay for light and water, while they were not to blame. We ask: What should they pay now? The disaster that they're not responsible for? And what are you going to do? Are you going to auction the field? There are other ways. See each case separately, because there are farmers who paid, and indeed there were some TWG management councils who did not manage properly and fruit these payments. How are these farmers now invited to pay again? Also, you can set income criteria. Although we know that the problem is real, but this amendment, which is even drafted, does not solve the problem with horizontal and sloppy measures. Of course, the Ministry of Rural Development had to bring it in and accompany it with a report from the General Accounting Office of the State and not condemn those who were normally paying for the deprivation of the right to irrigation when you are even strangled by TWG today. It's unfair.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-one students and students and three educational attendances from the 6th Piraeus Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Panayiot, will you speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u171	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Minister has the floor to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u173	I do not have much to say, because the debate has brought about a wide-ranging subject which many Members have referred to, from Skopje to Crete's connections and the connections between Crete and the natural contract between people and nature. So I'm going to override all this and focus on three or four points concerning the bill in itself. Firstly, I think there has been exhaustive criticism of the procedure. At the end of the day, however, this criticism is being tempered by the fact that the vast majority of the arrangements are ministerial and I repeat that the overwhelming majority are also on the move from initiatives taken by Members. I'm gonna stand by the most important ones. The debate on the TWGs is more important. I didn't understand the KIC's position to tell you the truth. I assume it is in favour of the permanent grant of farmers and TWGs from PPC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u174	No, not to pay unfairly and never to pay again. The rags don't end!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u175	Yes, sir. We have three problems with the TWGs, which I think have been analysed in Parliament again. We have the TWGs, which are consistent after the arrangements made. So there was an effort and there was a spirit of cooperation with PPC, which worked on the basis of the arrangements that had been made. I think that there is absolutely no problem in this area. A second problem is the TWGs, which regulate and do not respect them from the next day. There PPC is becoming more severe in the way in which this problem is being resolved. The third problem is also known. We have farmers who fulfil their obligations towards TWG and farmers, who do not perform their obligations systematically and repeatedly. The TWG is therefore facing a problem in this third category. There is also an even more growing problem, if the people who owe most are the administration of the TWG as individual farmers I mean. There is no universal idea of these things, which says that we can deal with them well. Obviously there must be a differentiated approach. PPC gave a very powerful trigger. It makes too many arrangements. We have a significant response from the TWGs. In the extreme third category phenomena, I repeat that checks have now been carried out in TWGs for mismanagement and so on. So the effort made by our current regulation, which is on the initiative of MPs and which is common to the Ministry of Rural Development, is very simple. It is trying to facilitate TWG administrations to carry out their work on the operation, which they have undertaken. They're responsible. They have to move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u176	Will PPC call them until the 12-day deadline is over?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u177	The regulation is very clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u178	I say don't forget.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u179	Nobody forgets anything. And PPC is, of course, in line with this arrangement, because it creates a strong commitment to TWG boards to fulfil their obligations and, at the same time, PPC has announced that it will proceed to regulation and reconnect the water directly. I repeat and it is clear from our side and from the side of PPC that TWG, who refuse to discuss it, will have a problem. They must come to the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u180	On invitation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u181	Of course, but also on their own initiative. There is no way of continuing a regime in which there is no agreement, no contact, no debate. That's the one thing. The second point raised and I want to make it clear is the provision, which concerns companies where the AACC is not required and bypassed. I repeat it for once, so that it does not get confused with other situations. These are: First, the public has 51%. The second condition is that a strategic investor is already in place. See IPTO. So it doesn't apply to PPC. PPC does not have a strategic investor. It's 51% public, but it doesn't have a strategic investor. It shall not apply to the DESCRIP, where the individual has a majority. Not all other cases. They are only the categories of companies in which 51% of the public and strategic investor, who has the right under shareholders' agreement to place members in the administration. It's purely for this case. These may be, of course, also from any country of origin of a strategic investor. The third point that has been raised is IGM, on which there was a provision we were preparing for, but it was not completed. One way has been found that will make the commitment to judicial decisions compatible without legislation. These are the most basics. As far as the substance of the remarks made on the articles is concerned, I think that the answer is rather in a position of Mrs Kafantari, which analysed the European institutional framework in which we are moving. And that is why what I said in committee is entirely true, we do not have the power to define it precisely. We must have the exact limit laid down by the European directive to exhaust it - that was our intention, and that is what we are doing - but without an explicit commitment to 7%. We cannot change 'up to 7%'. Other partial remarks I think have been answered. I think that the spirit of the bill should be widely recognised. Maritime planning is a new chapter. Any individual disagreements that may exist must not cancel the main edge of the bill. We're opening a new field for the country's spatial upgrading. It is a new field for the protection of the environment and the sea and a new field for the use of the sea in an environmentally sustainable way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, two children and three teachers from the Ghost Association, Children with Neoplasty Disease "Flaga". The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] With the lively intervention of the Minister, the debate on the bill was concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: "Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/89/EU "a framework for maritime spatial planning" and other provisions is hereby concluded. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u183	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u184	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u185	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: “Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/89/EU, “in order to establish a framework for maritime spatial planning” and other provisions, has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u187	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-05-S1-commons.u188	With the consent of the House at 18.22 p.m., the sitting on Thursday, June 7, 2018, at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
