ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Before we begin, let me tell the House the topical and urgent question report of Monday, 4 June 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1710/29-5-2018 topical question by the MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaou Maniou to the Minister of Health, on 'Increased rates of Cesarean Incidents in Greece'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 1706/25-2018, a topical question by MP II of the New Democracy, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Security keeps the Ministry of Finance regarding the procurement of the Public Debt Management Agency (RHOHSH) with the investment bank “ROTHSCHILD”. 3. PASOK - DIMAR Mr Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: 'Application of Article 30C of Law 1264/1982 by the Ministry of National Defence'. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1711/29-5-2018 topical question by MP Preveza of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Barkas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Urgent needs for the staff of the Paris, Canalaki and Philippidian Health Centres in Prevezis". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1707/25-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of Health, on "Without pediatrician for two and a half months the Aegina Health Center - Deficiencies and Ophthalmiatro and ORL". 3. The question asked by MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Kefalidou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, dated 1712-29-5-2018, on the subject: "Chartis Award to criminal sentences, in order to appoint or obtain permission to pursue a profession." 4. The Question No 1699/24-2018 by Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "What are the losses of the State from smuggling cigarettes? " 5. The 1588/3-5-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the future of the Greek Defence Industry". 6. The Question No 1622/8-5-2018 by F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "For the successors of the eight-month competition for the two hospitals of Larissa". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 1538/23-44-2018 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need to increase military service". 8. The 1539/23-44-2018 topical question of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the participation of military teams on a party course of the JRC". 9. The 1518-17-2018 topical question by H' Vice President of Parliament and Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance about the problems of 4 million borrowers. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Elias of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The cases of tax evasion which have been filed on the way from ILO to ADP and the government's responsibility for loss of revenue". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 4017/2-3-2018 question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The requirement of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) for the signing of the 3rd Memorandum by the Supreme Council (Greek Company of Participation and Property S.A.).(')'. 3. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Health about the dispatch of two ambulances to the EKAV of Molas and support with medical, nursing and administrative staff of the Laconia Prefecture. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, seven students and a teacher from the IEK Homer. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we begin with the first under number 1705-25-2018, a topical question for the Second Cycle of the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the solution to the combination of TEI ATT with the TEI of Central Macedonia and the International University of Thessaloniki. The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs will answer Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Good month and good minds to all of us. Minister, any institutional interventions in higher education, through the establishment, reorganization, merger, transfer, abolition and so on. university schools and departments must be the result of a wide, structured and continuous public dialogue involving all involved, in and outside the academic community, bodies. It is not, therefore, a question of conducting such a dialogue and drawing up proposals for solutions, the interpretation of local societies and their institutional representatives, but of course, when any discussions are conducted in secret and unjustified manners. In this regard, the local society of Drama with particular anxiety monitors what has been said in the field of the TEI of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, informing, through numerous articles of conflicting views, thoughts and plans of combinations and abolitions that sometimes leak, creating confusion among citizens and above all concern about the future of the institution and parts of Drama. The apparent choice of the physical, academic and geographical disconnection and of the conscious exclusion of the TEI of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace from the Democritus University of Thrace raises great concerns, as, to this day, no one has understood the feasibility of this choice, which is served, in fact, by ignoring the fair and reasonable demands of local societies and bodies for the coexistence of the two institutions. In this respect, Minister, you ask: On the basis of the scientific, geographical, social and real data, it appears from the publications that the solution to the association of the TEI of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace with the TEI of Central Macedonia and the International University of Thessaloniki should be chosen. Subsequently, why was the association of the TEI of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace with the Democritus University excluded, but also the participation of representatives of the latter - I mean Democritus - by the Joint Committee, set up by you, Minister? Finally, what will eventually happen with the existing parts of Drama? Is there a school plan in Drama with new departments? And if so, what are these? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u5	Mr Kyriazidis, I do not know if you or your colleagues are not sufficiently informed about a set of arrangements and procedures. Let's start with the subject of substance. We are not discussing - and I would ask nobody to use this term again - for associations of TEIs and universities. We're talking about synergies. The word'sympathy' is different from the word 'association'. Synergies aim to upgrade higher education as a whole, and for the first time in a draft higher education reform, we take into account the two areas of higher education, universities and TEI. So for the first time we lean over and over the TEIs, to see how they can join this upgrading process. Secondly - it requires great attention from all of us and it is not just about you - our proposal is, through these specific working groups, to let the academic community do its job first. In other words, after various discussions, and so on, we said who wants to participate in a working party to bring us a conclusion on the upgrading of higher education in this region. We did it in the Ionian Sea, we did it in Epirus, we did it in Thessaly, now it's happening in central and eastern Macedonia. So the logic is to first have a finding of the academic community and then the state will start discussions with local bodies systematically and with any other stakeholders. We will not enter into the logic of the inertia of any cries that led us to where they led us and we cannot see exactly what is going on in higher education. I would remind you that parts have been founded in Drama on previous governments. These same governments were dismantled, then re-established, and so on. I hope you know them, because if you don't know them, I can tell you very thoroughly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u6	We had a similar debate a long time ago, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u7	Good, since we had a similar debate, you have no reason to repeat it. So we are trying to see how we will cure, not just old sins, but old destructive policies for higher education. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Now I come to Drama's theme. Drama, as you know, has three sections: forestry, oenology and landscape architecture. These have a very complicated story, because they had been founded, they had been abolished, we have refounded them. These are part of the plan that this committee is discussing. In fact, at the moment we are talking about, the committee is meeting in Kavala. She'll give us her find, and we'll go. But you should know - and it seems to me that you don't mention it here - that a month and a half ago there was an open council meeting in Drama. There, therefore, the teachers of the TEIs participated, various stakeholders participated, as well as via Skype, the chairman of the Committee on Upgrade Issues. So what we are trying to do is approaching to analyse an extremely complex issue. Now, as far as cooperation between the three institutions is concerned, I shall refer to my dentistry, because I do not want to consume time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Mr Kyriazidis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u9	Minister, I know exactly what is happening right now and what is being discussed in Kavala and Drama. In your decision, of course, you have proceeded with the creation of these committees, without, of course, consulting the academic community. Your choices were the committees, and this committee was made with a choice of your own. In other words, they participate in the committee from Aristotle, from the Thessaloniki TEI, as well as from the International and the Central Macedonia TEI. Strangely enough, they don't participate in the Democritus.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u10	Not even from Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u11	We say that regionally, administratively, this TEI is based in Kavala. As to how they have been excluded, I tell you that, as you know, another meeting was held in Komotini, in the district, with the interest of the Regional Director, where representatives were involved, the President and the Rector of Democrat and the Rector of TEI Kavalas. There was a common position that they would work together. Strangely enough, you have chosen another committee in one particular direction. The International University of Thessaloniki is a graduate and, in fact, with English programs, in English. Now, how will TEIs be connected, as you wish or cooperate with it, is an issue that you should clarify to us? Because I would say that the International University has so far been working very hard indeed, and I do not know whether its objective has yet been achieved. For four months now, the University of West Attica has been trying to get into a function and we don't know if it's going in. So huge issues are being raised, Minister. We hope that, at the end of the day, the whole thing will come to the debate, so that, in a pure and not temporary way, we can deal with issues relating to education, because the stables are missing from this country. That's the point. As far as the committee is concerned, Minister, I do not know whether there are any political objectives, but the direction towards technical education is about finding a job undergraduate, getting a degree in order to find work. I believe you will help, as you are targeting and planning, by uniting, synergy with the International University. If you go ahead, Minister, I call for clear commitments to the establishment of schools in Drama and the creation of autonomous administrative structures of the new institution, based in Drama. As far as I am concerned, the committee is directed specifically at two sections. We will be back in the debate and I hope that we do not find this in front of us. In particular, for the parts of Drama, I would ask the following: firstly, the operation of a special account - and I will say why, secondly, a student office, thirdly, accounting and fourthly, a jewelry. What is the future of the administrative staff working at the TEI? We'll talk about it again in Drama. I ask you to commit that the staff will remain in their place. The Region of East Macedonia and Thrace finances projects for the specific construction institutions, research projects, etc. The new institution from which region will it claim resources? Will expenditure be legal, so that money can be disbursed? We'll find this in front of us, Minister. You know them very well. And will they be granted approval? For administrative purposes, these departments, the institutions, will belong to another area. And, in any case, because they have a horizon in 2019, I hope that we will come to an agreement so that there will be at least one stable in education, as there should be other issues, than being constantly and permanently on the "walk-wrecked". Of course, my government will take over what you are going to get to a point and I believe that we will come to an agreement so that there is a collective and cross-party position and a view that these issues, which concern a larger issue, which has to do with a stable one in a country, can also continue in the future. And of course I am talking about education. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u12	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u13	Mr Kyriazides, I hope you will remember the 'Athens' project. The "ATHENA" project, then, under the minister of Mr. Arvanitopoulos, changed every night, depending on who went to the Ministry, who was pressing and doing things, which in the academic community are known as abortions. For example, he put two unrelated...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u14	Minister, I would not like to get into this micro-political thing. I tried...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u15	Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u16	Mr Cryazides, please do not have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u17	I have no problem accepting mistakes, both personally and by the government and the Ministry of Education. But what matters is to see what problem we are going to solve. Let's solve a problem of an entirely irrational division of sections across Greece. Parts were made and not even given to one staff. What kind of educational policy is that? Is it a policy on souvlakis and "rooms to let" or is it for young children to go to study in a serious way? So we are committed - you see this with the bill that has come out in consultation for the University of Ioannina and the Ioannina TEI - for what will come out for the Ionians now and what will come out for Thessaly - that we will now place staff so that there are no semi-autonomous departments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u18	Where, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u19	Of these positions we have, Mr. Cryazides. Okay? Because when you use what you have rationally, they get what you want to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u20	Three years I've been trying for the Oenology Department to take a...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Cryazides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u22	We will not go into positions unless they are part of a comprehensive plan. What happened before, when everyone came and said, "He gave two seats", the Minister said "I'll definitely give you" and then forget it, it's over. Now it's going to be based on a plan. You said there was a committee here without consulting the academic community. That's wrong. Wait. Don't be exposed to reports that don't know what they're saying. Listen. How did the committee become in consultation with the academic community when the dean and the former dean of the TEI in Kavala, the dean and the counter-procedures of the TEI in Serres, members of the management committee of the International University, participate? And there's a...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u23	I know the President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u24	Please. I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Cryazides, please. Allow the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u26	There is also a representative of the Ministry to inform the Ministry. I think that's not absurd. So they're exclusively in consultation with the academic community. And if what you're saying is true, then I challenge them to come out and report us. No one has denounced us. Nobody! Now, as to why these are involved and do not involve other institutions. We had a conversation with the Republican Ministry of the Democrat University. We said the Democrat University has a prospective plan. Let us look at this perspective in detail, at the same time finishing the discussions of this committee and sit down and see what is going on. You know, the worst part is that so far all these things have been designed at the Ministry of the Ex-Service of the University community. Now we say the exact opposite. And of course, the state will come there and say that "the architecture is the proposed one, but I, too, have an opinion on alpha or beta, without overthrowing architecture". You said about the administrative staff. Let us make it clear that no matter what happens there will be no movement of administrative personnel. These are things spread to panic the world. If possible, people who have worked in a room for I don't know how many years, say, by administrative decisions, you leave there and go elsewhere. Now if they want to apply to go somewhere else, obviously that's something different. You raised a matter of importance, though. And that is the region of which they will be financed. We're in discussions with the regions. We should make sure that, in fact, the TEI in Kavala has enough money to get from the periphery there. This, obviously, needs to be safeguarded and guaranteed. We must not finally move on because there is such a technical difficulty, which will be solved. There's no problem at all. You say I commit to structures in Patras. With everything I've said, it's wrong for the Minister to make a commitment. The Minister's waiting for the conclusion, and on the basis of the conclusion, let's see where we're going. Otherwise, we're going to make the same mistakes we've made for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of St. Theodoros. Good month, guys! We welcome you to the House! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/89/EU "a framework for maritime spatial planning" and other provisions". Also, the MP Mr.Ioannis Kefaliannis asks that he be granted an absence permit in order to travel to Russia from 3-6-2018 to 6-6-2018 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u28	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Also, the MP, George Panzas, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons from 4-6-2018 to 6-6-2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u29	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We move to the first with number 1983/11-12-2017 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by the Member of Parliament Drama of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the subject: "What was the award of the "Doctors of the World" health care of refugees from the Centre for the Host of Drama?"? The Minister for Migration Policy will answer Mr. Vitsats. Mr Kyriazidis has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question was tabled not to you, but to your previous colleague and Minister, at the request of the Drama Medical Association on 2-6-2017. We completed today just a year. The question has not been answered. The Medical Association also came back and I myself had to come back in November 2017. Again, this question has not been answered and Parliament has necessarily now been asked, the House has had to debate today. And I thank you for being here in order to have a view, although in the meantime there have been various changes. In any case, I am once again taking into account the protest by the Medical Association of Dramas on the award and the conditions under which it was carried out, with regard to the health care of refugees in BITP Drama, to a private organisation bypass - as the Medical Association says - the competent scientific body, the Medical Association of Drama. It was also sent to you. Unfortunately, as I said before, I did not receive any response and was forced to repeat the whole text. The Medical Association mentions the lack of sponsorship from abroad through the Greek association so that the medical world can support hospitality structures in BIP Dramas without burdening the public. And of course the question remains to you: by what procedure did the "Doctors of the World" be chosen and assigned to the "Doctors of the World" of caring for refugees from the Drama Centre? Why has the Drama Medical Association not been asked, and why is the role of this institution ultimately being undermined? By what procedure have the doctors of this NGO been authorised by the Ministry of Migration Policy? Is the last person responsible for granting such licences? Will the medical association's legal request that it be formally entrusted with the primary care of refugees in the light of the funding it has achieved? I will then tell my dentistry what happened. In any case, will a cooperation agreement be concluded between the relevant Ministry and the Medical Association for the provision of primary health care to refugees and, if not, what is preventing its conclusion? In my dentistry, Mr Minister, I will tell you further that you may also know and have an update.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. The Minister has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Kyriazidis, good month, as well as all those present and the President. Let us explain a few things: The main bodies that use or manage the material conditions for the reception and identification of applicants for international protection and asylum seekers, what we call refugees and immigrants, are the Greek state with the coordination of the Ministry of Migration Policy and beyond, on more specific issues as regards the Greek state and the emergency aid, namely the DG Echo Fund, is the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, but also two major international organisations, the UN High Commissioner for Immigration and the International Organisation for Migration. The Centre for the Host of Drama, primarily and in agreement with the Greek state, is managed by the International Organisation for Migration. So the International Organisation for Migration with its own procedures for medical care in Drama has chosen, and indeed with invitation and selection processes, a well-known non-governmental organization worldwide, the "Doctors of the World". In other words, the Ministry of Migration Policy or the Ministry of Health did not have the power to choose. I would first like you to know that, and I would explain how this has been done. From the communication I had with the International Organisation for Migration, the extra criterion was that the "Doctors of the World" apart from drugs also have translators, they also have vehicles, etc., but I don't put these things in scales. So I'm saying this: That's all so far. Since 2018, because the way of financing is changed by DG Echo, the emergency aid, the regular aid, DG Home, starts and takes over the Greek state, with the aim of making use of all the institutions, and the responsibility and has the corresponding funding. We are even starting from 1 July with the takeover of transport throughout Greece. It's just making a huge change in relation to this. We have no objections, but there is no objection that the Drama Medical Association should contribute and cooperate in this period, much more so that we know that the Drama Medical Association and the previous years had contributed. What was not successful was the direct sponsorship of the Drama Medical Association by the German organization ‘German Doctors’. Isn't that right? That is the main issue. But we want medical clubs to be a part of the plan, along with the Ministry of Health, in this contribution. So I'm staying in this. I can explain to you how the process has been done, what our objectives are from now on, and what is going to happen not only at the medical level, but at the level, one would say, of the overall management.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Kyriazidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u34	Minister, I hope we get into a normal and healthy question. You were right to say that the Medical Association, the medical world of Drama in the first difficult time, in the first five months where there was nothing, we contributed with his presence to cover up these gaps and we should recognise this effort and I am glad you made this report. But it did not happen in terms of the state, your government, of a response. He therefore fled because you said the Ministry of Health was involved in the National Health Operations Centre. Specific days and hours per week were given to enable the Medical Association to intervene with the medical staff of the county to meet specific needs. Unfortunately, he was not allowed to enter and the question of the Medical Association was who in that state, in that country you might, if you want, replace or replace institutions such as the Medical Association. He was unable to provide his services, although - you know, you said that - he had the financial capacity without burdening the Greek State. It could not be done and were forced, in order to be correct, so that they would not be charged, to return the money at the end of December, so that they would not be checked and exposed. Then, as I am told, this NGO left on 23rd of the month. I do not want to go on with other issues, about how and from where they were - I would say - their own payment or aid, whether it was inside or outside the country and whether there was transparency. It's another case. We'll see her, too. I hope that then there will be this cooperation, so that in a good, rational way, the issue of refugees' health in BiH Drama can be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr Cryazides. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Kyriazidis, the particular fact you mentioned, I can take it as an information I have to check on. I can't answer that, how it happened. If, as I say everywhere, it was wrong to be, you would say, acceptable or inadmissible. They're always accepted. That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u37	I'm glad to hear that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u38	I would also like to say to you: with regard to the financing of the 'Doctors of the World', this is done by the IMO, the International Organisation for Migration, which has the main task and is financed directly by the emergency, i.e. does not involve the Greek state within it, the European Union and is directly controlled by the European Union. However, experience has shown that it is doing so with great adequacy and with great transparency, because it has, as you can see, a great experience. Now we are living in a transition situation. What do we mean? Non-governmental organisations slowly cease their operation and take over the structures of the state, i.e. the CEDEFOP takes over the issues of medical care and care, which set up teams and through the coordinating operational body in the Ministry of Migration Policy, which is also involved in the Ministry of Health, exploits all the medical and medical forces of the country. It's gonna be a case, I'd say, that the medical clubs should help. The Dramas Medical Association and Mr. Vassilis, who is President, I don't remember if he's still president...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u39	It's Mr. Georgiadis. Mrs. Vassiliou is a secretary...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u40	Excuse me, Mr. Georgiadis. Mr. Georgiadis has shown that he can contribute. You also mentioned the facts. And there were more, it wasn't just for that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u41	I didn't have the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u42	We in this contribution, if you wish, also to perform their vows against medical science and humanity, but also to the role for which the medical clubs exist, not just to look forward, but to assist. So at this level I can answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much to the Minister. Before we move on to the next question, you will allow me to make a few written questions. The third, with number 1697/24-2018, top-level question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "About the lawful licensing of the Skouri mine", will not be discussed due to an obstacle of the Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr. Georgios Stathakis. Cause: Teleconferencing with the institutions. The fifth question under number 1717/29-5-2018 of the first cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGLOV to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "To enter a brake" in the uncontrolled rise in fuel prices charged by the economy", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr.Asterios Pitsirla. Cause: Speech at the Balkan Forum, meeting with the Minister of Tourism, traveling to Agrinio.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Kegeroglu, by the way you're here, I give you the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. These days hundreds of thousands of euros every day flee the pockets of people on the inside because of rising fuel prices. The same is true of many thousands of small or medium-sized enterprises. It is therefore a very important issue, on which we asked the Minister, Mr Drasakis. It seemed to me that the Undersecretary answered. We ask the Ministry, the Minister, and if there is a total problem, a coma, all right, of course, we accept it, but if a member of the Ministry's political leadership cannot, that does not mean that not everyone can. I would therefore like to point out that nothing has been done on this serious issue by the government, and of course the latter also concerns the activity and appropriate actions, the decisions it needs to take, so that we can have a normalisation of the situation. Mr President, I would also like to protest to the Bureau to increase the number of 'containers' again in and out of import. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much. The days are hard. You are well aware of the work of the government by 15 June. We all need to show some patience. The second question under number 1611/7-5-2018, the second question of the New Democracy MP, Christou Dimas, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Absorbing RSR 2014-2020", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Haritsis. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. The fourth under number 1589/3-5-2018 topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Control placement of greenhouses and processing plant for the processing and production of finished pharmaceutical cannabis products", will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Haritsis. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. The second question under number 4297/12-2018 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, concerning the intentions of the US Government to impose import duties and the effects of the measure on Greek exports, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Haritsis. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. The third, with number 1674/21-5-2018, topical question of the second question of the Member of the Parliament, Lassithi, New Democracy, Ioannis Placiotakis, to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the subject: "E. on the supply of new ferry ships by the Hellenic Coast Guard to strengthen surveillance of maritime borders, effective investigation and rescue and fight against crime at sea," will not be discussed due to an obstacle of the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr. Kourublis. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. Finally, the first question under number 1704/25-2018, the first question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary, Mr Annas - Michelle Asmakopoulou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "Talkage and burden of the consumer from the delay in the reimbursement of money paid to the ELTAs for the repayment of PPC's accounts", will not be discussed as a result of the failure of the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr. Papa, due to lack of awareness. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme "Corporate of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Primary School of Korydalou. The House welcomes you. We wish you a good month! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Thank you very much for his patience. We move on to the two topical questions which will be answered today by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Socrates Famelos. The fourth question under number 1701/25-2018 will be debated first of all by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and Athens MP Mr Spyridon Lykoudis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The organisation of races in the NATURA area". Z' Vice-President of the House, Mr. Spyridon Lykoudis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u48	Minister, according to a press release from the Association for the Protection of the Marine Turtle "ARCHELON" on the 22nd of May two hundred eighty motor vehicles, two-wheeled and four-wheeled motorcycles, for five hours across the beach and the dunes of the southern Kyparisian Gulf, in the regions of Giannitsochochori, Elias and Olive Messinia. It is known, you know, that the coastal area of the southern Kyparissian Gulf is a valuable coastal ecosystem with sand dunes and hosts every summer over a thousand nests of the sea turtle. This area is not part of the NATURA network. The speed struggle for the first time was advertised to include sands and sands - beach, despite the protection measures that apply under the legislation. The amazement of history is that the organisers - and this was one of the reasons for this - have been stirring me to ask, apart from the substance of the matter, the question - that they had received approval from the relevant region, from the relevant forest office and from the region's police department. This action poses a threat to both sea turtle nests and bathers in a sense. I'm not telling you anything new, you understand that. The competent police authorities, although notified, said they can't react. And why should they react when the complainants say they had given permission to make this fight? In view of the above, Mr Minister, I would ask you: firstly, is it true that the authorization had been granted for this type of rally by the competent authorities, the region, the police and the relevant bodies? Secondly, if so, on what conditions had this licence been granted and on what grounds? Why have the objections of the club not been taken into account, but also of residents and bathers? Thirdly, has the urgent request from the club been taken into account to exclude the part of the protected beach and the dunes from the route for reasons of nature protection, on the basis of the legislation on the protection of the sanctuary and the granting of a simple use of the saint under Article 13 of the Law on Biodiversity and the measures of the Ministerial Decision in force since May 2016 - and you know it - for the protection of the Kyrgyz Gulf? Please, I would like your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr Vice President. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everybody. Good month. Mr Lykoudis, your question is very critical and thank you very much. It is very important and I must also present our response to this issue which has been made public, and I will explain to you in detail what has been done. The Kyparissian Gulf and the protection of the Kyparissian Gulf region have a long history. Our country has been under the control of the European Commission since 2010 on this matter. In 2014 we were referred to the European Court of Justice and in 2016 there was a condemnation of the country for the poor protection of the Cyprus Gulf. Unfortunately, previous governments in a systematic way, I would say, chose not to protect the environment, not to invest in the environment and its protection and to implement fragmentary policies, with poor development models. It was our Government's choice to make aspects of environmental protection for the benefit of development and the environment, because we do not think there is any contradiction. Thus, the institutions of protected areas and the Kyparissian Gulf region were set up. Now that's what happened with our government. The NATURA 2000 area was established both on the land and on the sea coast of the Cyparissian. On 15 December the Ministerial Decision was signed and the work of the special environmental studies was announced, so that we could have action plans for the NATURA regions throughout Greece - we did not, unfortunately, have - and we are implementing an unprecedented programme, I would say, for the Greek data, the first European programme of this kind of budget of EUR 17.5 million from the LIFE - IP 4 for the natural environment of our country. Especially for the sensitive region of the Gulf of Cyprus, we have drawn up and have already submitted to the Council of State a draft Presidential Decree, which may be the last days before it is signed. There was an correspondence with the Council of State to be complete. We, in order to cover this issue of the adoption of a Presidential Decree, as you said, adopted a ministerial decision in 2016, which was recently renewed on 24 May. So the area's under protection. Legislation and in particular Law 3937 expressly prohibits the movement of motor vehicles off-road in ecologically sensitive areas such as this one. In fact, the hayalus and ammothins are mentioned in this law. In the ministerial decision we have published, it is stated that those areas you have said and you are in Zone A, so it is a high-protection zone, so the obligations of the institutional framework arise, as I have already said, and from the law of the institutions, in February, the accession of this region also results. It is therefore also a protected area under the NATURA 2000 protection regime with an organisation and a prohibition of activities in the areas of algae and ammothins. In fact, the management body is required to give an opinion on the activities and assistance of the authorities which, as will then be demonstrated, were not requested. Therefore, the institutional framework has not been applied with regard to possible authorisations. I'll tell you exactly what's happened. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, I will take a minute from my dentistry. I don't think I'm gonna need much time later. But I would like to note something in your question. You refer to two areas - let's go to that - Giannitsochori Elias and Olive Messinia. So we're talking about two regions, Western Greece and Peloponnese. It is important, because according to the information documents we collected, the Region of Western Greece granted a temporary leave to operate a sports club of Group Z for Hellas Rally Raid 2018, with a restriction on the use of the provincial network and specific sites of the Municipality of Ancient Olympia, while the Peloponnese Region did not receive a request. As regards Elia, therefore, there was no request for the Municipality of Ancient Olympia in the Region, but as far as Messonia is concerned, because the region is indeed two regions. The decision of the Region of Western Greece was notified to the Trochaia Directorate, at the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police, which authorised these features, however, for this race for the period from 21 to 27 May. There was nowhere to be found in the coastal area, the ammothins and the core of the protected area. We're talking about a provincial road network. The Municipality of Sakharos, because that is where the coastal area is and not the Municipality of Ancient Olympia, did not receive such a request. Likewise, the management body of the region, which, as I told you, is required to deliver an opinion and which is obliged to take the relevant opinion, has not been asked and not been informed. The Olympian Forest tells us he's been informed of the incident by the non-governmental organisation. It is possible that you and we all have also been informed of 'ARCHELLES' that is to say - and carried out an autopsy after the event. Obviously the management body contacted the coordinator of the action, who claimed to have received all the necessary permissions, but I just mentioned to you what authorisations he had mentioned and, after contacting the operator and the Kyparissia Forest, the neighbouring prefecture, it was therefore found that he had no relevant permission from this service, as we were informed at the level of oral communication. Obviously, we have also received the documents of 'ARCHELLES'. I'll tell you by closing down what we've done, because that's what matters. I think you have a full picture of the non-authorisation of this activity at the core of the protected area. There was only an authorisation from the Region of Western Greece for the provincial road network of the Municipality of Ancient Olympia. We have therefore asked, by way of a document, which has already gone to the police department, the public prosecutor, the competent body, the forest offices, to investigate all the alleged actions and to carry out all the legal actions planned for the infringement of a specific rule of the institutional framework, to take all the necessary measures and to withdraw any approvals that had been given, obviously because they were suspended and paralyzed in an area which was not licensed but to avoid the reason for the suspension of all the authorisations, to inform the Ministry immediately. We have asked for a report on what happened, what they found and what action was subsequently taken, not only the findings, but also what responsibilities were attributed and under what procedure. Obviously, we have already assigned the Environmental Risk Coordinating Office to deal with the problem of damage on the basis of its responsibility that 'the polluter pays'. Because it is not only what has happened and what responsibilities they have for violating the rules, but also what environmental damage they have in the ecosystem and how it will be restored. Biodiversity needs to be restored in this region, based on the polluter pays principle. I also tell you that for us the matter has not expired. We think it's very serious. I have already referred to this unacceptable fact, which has obviously been in violation of European Community legislation and we will continue our actions to blame those responsible and not to repeat the corresponding violations, because the institutional framework that we are creating is to ensure that such violations do not occur. This wealth that the environment is to give growth and quality of life and we cannot destroy growth and quality of life.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Minister. Mr Vice President, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u52	Mr Minister, first of all I thank you for the answer. I have to say that the clarifications you have given for explanations in relation to the course of the matter have at least one adequacy in relation to my question. There are, of course, a few issues coming up. For example, I did not want the country's referral to the question and the conviction, because I knew you would say it. It is therefore of other importance and another burden to be heard by the Minister's lips that our country is being brought to a European court and condemned because it has in fact not taken care of the environment and nature. That's what you did well to say, to be heard by you and not by me. Secondly, I know very well - I read it, I follow how you handled the case - that ministerial efforts are being made to adopt the Presidential Decree. But I also know that the President-in-Office's decree has been tabled twice before the Council of State. I think that if a third time comes back now, with the extension you have given, we may have the time until the President-in-Office's decree is issued to save such actions. That was the second point. The third point, Mr Minister, is that I have listened with great interest to what I did not know, namely that on the basis of complaints, licences have not been issued by the competent bodies or have been granted differently. I'm so sorry. I accept that because I do not think you are accurate in what you say in your reply, nor do you want to mislead me. But why does the competent authorities not intervene? I haven't given permission, and I'm the police, I'm not licensed, and I'm the district, I'm not licensed, and I'm the office, and it's a mess in the coastal area. What am I supposed to say? "You don't get bored, I didn't give permission, I'm quiet, they don't know what they're doing." They, however, destroy nests and circulate in a coastal area that has and bathers. I haven't licensed them too, violating the data, making motocross on the beach. Isn't any of the people involved? Minister, I accept the explanation you have given. Evidently my question was not of a political nature. There is an effort to ensure that together the honourable Member and the Ministry see what we can do on this issue. But you also have a fundamental explanation - not you - in relation to the obvious ones. "I have not given you permission and do what you want. How do I deal with it?" Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u54	I will agree with what you have said. I will only inform you of the Council of State and the performance of responsibilities, those two that you have reiterated. As far as the Council of State is concerned, Mr Lykoudi, it is true that we have been returned to the President-in-Office once to be precise. No corrections were requested. The Council of State has been asked to clarify the requirements of the institutional framework, i.e. whether the Presidential Decrees of the protected areas only have as prerequisites the preparation of a specific environmental study - which obviously have - and also a strategic environmental impact study, because they create a framework for planning and conditions of activities subsequently. This was one, if you like, of a legal and institutional basis that had to be resolved. It also concerns other Presidential Decrees. The knowledge I have, because there have been service meetings with the Council of State and a reply has been legally processed by us, is that this issue has been resolved, but in any case I cannot obviously insult the autonomy of the Council of State, which I expect also the Presidential Decree to be adopted. There was no second or third possibility, if you wish, of returning or changing the terms, because the Council of State has the opportunity to intervene on the terms and, on its own initiative, on its own initiative and on its own draft. He doesn't return it to us to change it and see it again. I think that this process will be completed, but I cannot insult the timetable and activity of the Council of State in terms of time. We want it to be done quickly - so to speak - it is our political will and the Council of State knows it. As far as responsible is concerned, I think it is clear that from what we know, we will not play the role of judge or prosecutor. There are these responsible bodies and they have been informed by us. There was no permit for these activities and there was a violation of the rules of the environment. I think I was, on the basis of my political responsibility, entirely specific. We have asked in writing for the responsibilities to be attributed, and we have asked to inform us of the exercise of responsibility, so that there is no need, if you wish, to delay or underestimate our choice. We want to be informed immediately by the forests, the prosecutors and the legal authorities about the breach of the rules of the environment, because this, Mr Lykoudi - and this gives me the opportunity to do so together - which we have to say as a Parliament in public, is that they cannot be blamed for the breach of the rules of the environment. There can be no impunity. Of course, I am not sure that the number of activities outside the provincial roads has actually become. I'm sure they went to the area. I do not know exactly the dimension of the intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u55	Minister, I have pictures too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u56	I've got the pictures. There are local discussions about whether there have been tests or struggles. In any case, the rules on the environment have been violated. That's what matters. We have asked for responsibility and there is a message from us that this cannot continue. I think this is our common place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Minister. We will proceed to the second with number 1695/23-2018, a top-level question by the Member of Parliament, Eotolokarnania of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Compensation benefits from the use of the water of the River Eunos and the River of Mornos". Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, because of the importance of the question, I would like two minutes further. Besides, it's the last question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u59	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u60	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Minister, it is a constant request for the local society of Aetolokarnania to establish contributory benefits from the use of the waters of the Eunos and Mornos rivers for the benefit of the permanent inhabitants of these regions. Let me remind you here that the project of diversion of the water of Eugenos feeds Attica through the Mornos reservoir and is watered by drinking water from the water lake, without any social and economic recompense and no compensatory benefit to the local communities of the Thermos, Navals and Gift for the permanent negative environmental consequences and, of course, for the geomorphological burden on the dam and the artificial lake. Of course, it is also the case of the Fokida Moron reservoir, as a source of hydrolepsy of EYDAP. I would remind you that the Mornos River goes to the mountainous Nafpaktia and the mountainous loft, and even the dam in these areas is the highest earthy dam in Europe, an important project that strengthened Athens' water supply, but without providing for corresponding compensatory benefits for the local community of the Naval and Dorice. Minister, a few days ago the petition lodged by the Municipality of Doda was discussed in the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament. The aim was and is to bring about environmental, geomorphological, social and economic problems that have arisen in the region. The committee has decided to proceed with strict, thorough monitoring and to forward the case to other relevant committees, such as the European Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, of course, for further investigation. Minister, the local communities of the Municipalities, as well as in general, of Aetolokarnania and Fokida, are determined to continue even more intensively this effort that has been launched decades ago to introduce reward benefits. This is a fair request, Minister, as the water resources used in the supply of Attica do not confer any benefit to local communities, as I have said before. Mr Minister, I would like to stress that our legal request requires it and supports it by the CEDEFOP. There is indeed a scientific and technological study that highlights the environmental damage that the wider region has suffered over the last thirty-seven years since the Mornos dam was built and the artificial lake began to operate. Minister, in an earlier question I had asked the Ministry of Interior on this matter, I had received in reply that, in cooperation with you, it would explore the possibilities of responding to the demands of local societies. However, since then there has been a fish silence. Following this, you ask, Minister, firstly if the investigation of the legislative possibilities has taken place, in which the Ministry had announced that it will be carrying out from 2016 on the introduction of compensatory benefits due to the development of the waters of the rivers of Eugene and Mornos, and what the conclusions of them are. Secondly, does the Ministry intend to take a legislative initiative to introduce compensatory benefits for the Naval, Door and Thermos municipalities and with what timetable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u62	Good morning, Mr. Constantopoulos. Thank you for the question. I will try to answer you, although I would say that the question should probably be repeated to the respective Minister for the Interior. But I'll give you the information you're interested in. As I see here in my information, Mr Constantopoulos, the lake of Mornos was created and first operated in early 1981, while the health provision for the protection of water in the capital and the wider basin was established in 1983. Do you know what this observation brings me to mind? That for thirty-five years the previous governments have not taken any initiative to restore this injustice, which you are claiming exists in your question. And we need to discuss whether there is. I wanted to know something, Mr Constantopoulos, and I tell you at the outset: there is no political responsibility, because this region, the wider basin of Eunos, Mornos, or other areas, has remained outside the attention of the state and state, while a significant water supply problem has been solved in the capital. Why do we have to start with this? We, of course, have to say that during our own government, we have taken initiatives which have not been taken by the previous governments. There is political responsibility for the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK because they left unresolved development problems in the region of the wider Mornos basin in the region of Lidoriki and also in general. In fact, I must tell you that a similar initiative has been taken by MP Fokidas Kostopaggiotou, along with the Mayor of Dorias, Mr Capentzonis, and we have already held meetings with them, because a great problem remains unresolved in the region, and this is the problem of the infrastructure that the region does not have, the real development deficit - which has remained in the area - of land uses and the lack of infrastructure, environment and water, because it is what the previous governments have not done and which obviously want a certain time to mature and build. I would also like to say to you that we need a great deal of attention - and I say this as a responsibility, with my political responsibility for the Special Secretariat for Water and Water Management - when we talk about a natural and social resource such as water and we translate it - for the parliamentary debate perhaps into a resource for exploitation. Mr. Constantopoulos, I don't know if you have such an opinion in the political area you belong to. I think you do not have, but you also consider that water is a public social resource and access to drinking water is a right for all citizens. We should therefore be very careful to discuss whether the terms 'efficiency and compensatory benefits', that is, economic conditions, could be seen with the corresponding - if you like - stamina and tolerance from the population of Athens, which is watered by these resources. We therefore need to opt for a solution with social justice. I would say that in the case of water, obviously, we cannot only talk about one region of Greece, because we have to be fair. For example, we should be talking about the contrast that exists or the water supply of Thessaloniki by the Kilkis Prefecture, the water supply of Corinth from the Stymfalia region, or any other region of the country that is obviously not watered by its narrow limits. Do you want to introduce restrictive factors for the water supply of large areas or economic exchanges that alter the price of water? I think this is a wrong reading for a social resource. I would suggest mine - or ours, because it is not a personal choice - reading. Our reading, then, is that in the region we need to restore the development deficit created by the previous governments in this region from which the whole urban complex of Athens is watered. That's the point. With this we must function and not obviously - in our view - with a provision that will create a transfer of costs to the area of the Thessaloniki town complex - and I see that Mr Arvanitidis is sitting next to you - or to the whole town of Athens. That is not fair and, if you wish, it restricts access to drinking water and the right of social groups to that. The state needs to take care of it. The state, therefore, in the region there, has key deficit issues. Can I tell you what the region's deficit is? I'd expect you to ask, Mr. Constantopoulos. The area there needs sewerage and biological cleansing, for example, as needed by the Ministry of Justice next to the Maltese prisons. That's what we want to restore. There are joint actions by our ministries - it happens that the relevant minister is here - to solve a problem that the governments have left unresolved for thirty-five years in the region. Indeed - and that is why I mentioned both the SYRIZA Members and the Mayor of Door - we have a plan for restoring these essential deficits and on our part we commit that these issues will be resolved. We are not entering the payroll debate. This concerns the ending of water use and other responsibilities related to municipal councils and the institutional framework of self-government. However, with regard to the environmental rules and quality assurance for the Athens urban complex, as well as to guarantee health, progress and development in the area of the wider Eunos and Mornos basin, we will clearly take the initiatives that have not been taken by the governments in previous years. I'll tell you more, if you want, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u64	Minister, first of all, I would like to point out that each government is a continuation of the previous government. So, non-continuous state does not exist. Today, the responsibility of the state lies with you. Therefore, we are addressing you. Secondly, as far as the question you have asked is whether it should be submitted to the Minister for the Interior too, I would like to say that he has been tabled, but he has said that he has not been responsible and has actually shown you. Mr Minister, to date no Minister and no Member has denied the satisfaction of our fair request, of the local society of both Atolokarnania and Fokida. Since the end of the 1990s, when the claim begins to be systemized, we have heard all the words. But we don't see. Of course there are also the responsibilities of the previous governments. No one questioned it and no one disputed it. In fact, recently, when the legislation was included in the multi-legislative draft for OTAs, on the part of Mr Kurublis, who is well aware of the issue, was deleted at the last minute. And I ask, why was it deleted? Answer me. Since then, fish silence. With Mr Kostopanagiotou there is good cooperation and we are discussing the problems of the region, because we both know them, as with Mr Capentzonis. In fact, it is no accident that it went to the Committee on Petitions. We must, however, help to support the effort of local government. No one, however, deals with the fact that the compensatory measures are, as I have said. You said it was natural social good. Of course. We must, however, see that Nafpacia and the Dome are watering the whole of Attica and do not have a compensatory benefit in terms of their infrastructure. The burden that the area has received from the large volume of water and water is enormous. There are serious negative effects on the environment and ecosystems. There's land to be dismantled. We have daily landslides. The shores have been eroded. Rural areas have been reduced, resulting in a reduction in agricultural and livestock investment. It should also be stressed that no development initiative is allowed within a radius of a thousand five hundred meters perpendicular to the lake. The wider region has been degraded by the continuous changes in land use, because, due to the lake dam, the distances of communities and settlements between them and from the wider urban centres have increased considerably, which is today, and because of the economic crisis, is economically unsatisfactory. Minister, you have the opportunity to leave behind an important task. You have the opportunity to write major work. The ball's on you. This field is yours. You must therefore justify the efforts of the societies of Aetolokarnania and Fokida. You have the opportunity to prove in practice your will and support public-private coexistence. Take advantage of the good practices of Ptolemais and Megalopolis, because I do not understand that the private sector - and I am talking about the proportion of the EEAS owned by private individuals - exploits public resources, with the benefit of growth and job creation, but has not given a reward in the public interest, the law and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Constantopoulos. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u66	I will not repeat the questions of competence, Mr Constantopoulos, because you yourself said that in a draft of the Ministry of Interior there was an article on this. So you said yourself about responsibility. It's clear. But I'll tell you what we've done. Indeed - you also agreed - in the region for thirty-five years now there has been no government concern and the previous governments have been responsible. We have therefore taken up a series of development actions for the wider region of Mornos and Evros, because that is the essence, the delay in development. I give you some examples of what has been done very recently. EUR 250,000 was given for the management study of the areas of Mornos, Evnos, Delphi, Kopaidas and Ashopou, precisely on the water supply issues of Athens. Two projects were included in the Public Investment Project, also there in the Municipality of Delphi, which has important parts within the basin, the Sellery of Desfina and the Municipal Road. We have also completed a very important tool in the area, which was not - and indeed as a Member of this House, I believe you know - the river basin management plans, and so we resolve the issues of Acheloos and the hydrologic diet in your area, which was a constant request from the Iato-karnania area. This issue has not been solved for years. That government solved it. It was ratified at the end of 2017 and we now have a management plan and very important projects were released, some 2,500,000,000 euros in heresy. In other words, from the mistakes of previous governments, 2 500 000 euros were committed, because Greece did not have a water management plan and this was completed with this government. And I'm saying that because you're wondering what we were doing for the area. I am also telling you clearly that we have taken a joint initiative with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Justice. With the Ministry of Infrastructure, as far as EKDAP of Iceland is concerned, because the raw water is not for EKDAP S.A. And the source is a public good, and it's managed by the public. Don't get us into this. We are also working with the Ministry of Justice because it also has the responsibility of the Malagasy Guardians in the region. We are in a conversation with the Municipality of Doria, to have a joint plan for wastewater management and infrastructure security. So on our part, we will do everything possible for what the previous governments have not done for both Lidoriki and for the quality of water. We will also intervene in amending the health provision so as to allow these works to be placed within the ban zone, because the impediment and fragmentary design of the past was not only that they have never dealt with the needs of the people of that region, but that the health provision prohibits the placing of works of general interest which serve the basin, so also the reservoir, as well as the citizens. We therefore commit - and we have already done so locally - to Mr Capentzonis and Mr Kostopanagiotos - that this issue will be resolved by this government with funding and infrastructure and there will be no problem either in the Mornos reservoir, so in the quality of Athens' water, in the cost of Athens' water, or in the lives of the citizens, which will be upgraded by infrastructure covered by this government and by the public. This is real development care. We are proving it at all the development conferences that we dare and we are going to have the discussion with the people in need of development there. Why, I agree with you that thirty-five years and in the wider region of Lidoriki, the state had forgotten the citizens of the province and this government will also restore this deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Before entering the agenda, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the Hall "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", thirty-four students and students and eight teachers from the Municipal Schools of Corsia and Ioulida Kes. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 18/1-2-2018 by Members of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Theodorou Papatheodorou, Georgios Arvanitides, Evangelos Venizelos, Leonida Gregorakos, Athanasios Theocharopoulos, Ahmet Ilhan, Georgiou - Dimitrios Karras, Vassilios Kegeroglou, Harulas (Haras), Kefalidas, Giannis Koutsoukos, Dimitrios Kremastiou, Odysseas Konstantinopoulos, Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Andreas Lovertou, Ioannis Maniatis, Konstantinos Bariotas, Konstantinos Scandalidis, Michael Jelle and Friday Christophilopoulos, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Synthetic undermining of justice by the Government and its manipulation by the government, and an orderly controlled control operation." The first Member of Parliament has the floor, Mr Papatheodorou, Member of the Achaias Parliament. You have ten minutes prototype and five minutes dentextology. Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. With a delay of several months, Minister, you have received the debate on the current question of justice, and this is also a negative sign of the priority and importance that the government attaches to the judiciary's crisis. Even today, however, you must be placed and answered for the systematic undermining of justice by the government and its drunken control and manipulation, as we have described in our question. Since the beginning of governance, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA - ANEL, in 2015, there has been a systematic effort of ministers and government officials to challenge, undermine and influence the functioning of justice and the independent authorities. The aim was to manipulate them and limit control they could exercise in government choices. In fact, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government with acts and omissions has not simply been content with the distortion of the constitutionally anticipated distinction of powers - legislative, executive, court - but has consciously attempted to undermine it, which has in some cases reached the open and orderly conflict and more obscene and extremist versions, to compromise and extremism of judges. Government interventions in the field of justice raise a major issue of the smooth functioning of institutions, but also of the quality of democracy. In fact, since 2015 - we have said this here - a programme is evolving, a project in many acts, which aims at manipulating judges, intimidating them, guiding the work of justice, feeding a climate of tension and conflict to serve the activities of the government staff. The conflict of government and justice since 2015 has emerged as one of the paths of the crisis and has been astonished by its intensification not only the political, legal and judicial circles in Greece, but also the relevant European Union bodies. The examples are many: The selective position of the President of Argos just before the September 2015 elections, the performance of the same disciplinary disciplinary powers vis-à-vis the judges, the repeated, but to date unsuccessful complaints by ministers for the existence of an offense ring that builds judgments, disciplinary proceedings against judges at the initiative of the Minister of Justice, the statements by the Prime Minister for impending or unsatisfactory decisions of the Council of State, the violation of the judiciary, the targeting of certain judicial officers, yellow reports against certain judges, the decriminating government officials against justice decisions, the divisive interventions of the Minister of Justice's political leadership against judiciary, the demonstration of the former President of Argyos Thananos in the office of the Prime Ministerial Staff. More specifically, everyone remembers the suffocating pressure on judges and the attempt to manipulate justice in view of the adoption of the decision of the Council of State on the unconstitutionality of the Pappa Act on TV licenses to the point that the Prime Minister would incomprehensible characterise any decision that would challenge or overthrow the government's policy on the alleged regulation of the broadcasting field. Everyone also remembers the "yellow" publications in your party form, "AGEI", against a supreme court a few days before the S.H.E.'s decision, which were criticised and sentenced by the Personal Data Protection Authority. Everyone remembers the judiciary division operation on the initiative of Mrs Thanos - then President of the Ice Bay - and the open coverage of the prime minister's staff on this initiative. The very choice of Ms Thanos on the position of President of the Ice Bay in June 2015 was made at the same time bypass of the year between the Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Court and had as an obvious political aim the place of Ms Thanos as Minister of Staff for the implementation of the September 2015 elections. A year later, in June 2016, with a new bypass of the year, this Ministerial Council was chosen at a meeting of the "rotational difference" by Mrs. Demetrius for the position of the prosecutor of the Ice Bay. Everyone remembers the conduct of disciplinary investigations against the Prosecutors of Tsatanis by the then President of the Ice Argory, Mr Thanos, because the prosecutor denounced the pressures imposed on her by the Deputy Minister of Justice on a case that had been filed. Everyone remembers the hybrid minister, Mr. Polakis, who accused the judges of the Council of State, of operating in favour of the contractors and closing their eyes in front of the wrongdoing mechanisms, in fact describing, Mr. Minister, "false" and "false" the prosecutors, without any reaction on your part. All remember the anti-institutional and illegal intervention of the Minister of National Defence Mr. Kammenos in the case of "NOOR 1" in the guidance of the witness isovitas detainee Giannusakis and the coverage provided by the Prime Minister to that Minister. The evidence that came to the public has documented the illegal interventions of the executive and the non-legal functioning of the penitentiary and judicial authorities. Everyone remembers the deceitful statements by government officials and Ministers against the President of the Council of State, when he ceased to be pleasing to the government, because he publicly denounced the attacks on justice, which are directed directly against the rule of law, a fundamental pillar of which is independent justice, and which seeks to reduce the prestige of justice. The former President who resigned denounced the ointment, deceitful characterisations, but also the affronting of the officials of justice to imply allegedly denying them to fulfil their essential obligations. Minister, everyone remembers the work of justice in the case of the eight Turkish soldiers, with the request for the cancellation made by the Minister for Migration Policy and the obvious political aim, to resolve the question of whether it was a coup d'état in Turkey or whether we have a violation of human rights in that country. In the same case, the Prime Minister has not denied that he had promised Mr Erdogan their surrender to Turkey within a few weeks, without prejudice to judicial protection and the right to protection of asylum in Greece and to procedural guarantees of human rights. All remember that recently, on the eve of the mission of the NOVARTIS dossier in Parliament, the Minister of State at the Prosecutors of the Ice Region, Mr.Janakopoulou, presented after two days, while there was a meeting of the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Papaggelopoulos, with the prosecutors against corruption. At the same time, the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice was following the path of litigation towards the House. The fact that the case, the biggest scandal of a recommendation from the Greek state, as Mr Papagelopoulos said, has resulted in a fiasco cannot cover either the construction or the constructed statements and political interventions in the work of justice. On the contrary, this case confirms them. Finally, everyone remembers that against this situation the judiciary associations have denounced to Greece, but also to the European institutions - and this is unprecedented for a European democracy - the systematic effort of full subjection and manipulation of justice in order to act as a governmental mechanism and that the government follows the example of Turkey and Poland, the governments whose governments, whether by persecution against judicial officers or through strict legislative intervention, abolish the independence of justice. The judicial associations stressed that avoiding institutional conflicts and systematic attacks on judicial officers is a necessary condition for the proper functioning of the society. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not need more than half a minute, Mr President. The above and everything mentioned in our question is a raw government intervention in the work of justice, particularly drunken, systemicised and targeted at almost three years of government of the first time left. And one last thing, but a major issue for democracy is this: it is incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen, three years from the beginning, that the Golden Dawn trial is not yet over. Obligation was, of course, not to intervene, but to provide all the conditions that would ensure a smooth and rapid trial of the case. And yet, today, we are still far away from the completion of this trial. For all this, the government is being controlled today, but also you personally, Minister, who has the constitutional power to safeguard the orderly functioning of justice and to protect its prestige and independence. You have not done so and have left uncontrolled government actors and ministers, party officials crossing judicial officers and attacking justice openly. Therefore, you are asking today about the interventions, not in the operation, but in the administration of justice, about the lack of appropriate measures to restore the validity of justice and its officials, for not taking effective measures on your part, to speed up the administration of justice. For these reasons, for which you have not reacted to this day when your colleagues in the Ministerial Council are directed against justice in a proper way, you must be placed in a position to apologize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Papatheodorou. It is now up to the honourable Member, Mrs Christophilopoulou, to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, what is the turn of the speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u72	The turn is: Ms. Christophilopoulos, Mr. Karras, Mr. Koutsoukos, Mr. Konstantinopoulos, Mr. Arvanitidis and Mr. Konstantopoulos. Here, Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's question is not a matter of law, nor is it even a matter of law. It is about all the citizens of this country, about democracy itself, about the rule of law, because judicial independence is the cornerstone of the rule of law, as Denning once said. Or to go to our place, Mr. Minister, Slotolos had brought her into the independence of justice as a permanent basis of the constitution. We know, ladies and gentlemen, that in our country we have experienced periods of political unrest where the riding of justice by the executive has often taken the character of an institutional diversion. And we can remember instantly the period of national division, the persecution of the Venizelic after the 1935 movement, the dictatorial regime of 4 August, the post-war period and the 'parason' and, of course, the black period of the penitentiaries' junta. We must also say, ladies and gentlemen, at this point that the 1975 Constitution has made a great deal of effort, as was revised up to 2001, and has set up an in-depth system of protection of judicial independence, both in terms of its operational independence and in terms of the personal independence of judges. Is there room for improvements? Yes, there are. And we as a Democratic Participation and as a Movement of Change in general have put forward concrete proposals ahead of the Constitutional Review that you are always throwing the ball, where is it? After starting with phanophane events and marching towards the people, I don't know where you're going with it, but obviously you don't care about constitutional revision. We have therefore tabled concrete proposals on how de jure independence, guaranteed independence by the Constitution can be improved further. However, here in this question we are talking about de facto independence. She's the one who gets hurt. It is not just a matter of preoccupation, as Mr Papatheodorou said a moment ago, of content and obligation to comply with judicial decisions. We're all judging. And the judges. However, it is not possible for government officials and ministers to use these terms. However, the most important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is not only these Italian challenges and vulgar words against justice. They are some inseparable, invisible and clearly much more dangerous, interventions. And once whispers for a dependent administration of justice take epidemic proportions, Minister, evil has occurred. And unfortunately, we have a multitude of examples, not only against judges and judges, but also with this inseparable, unclean one. Why, please tell me: How should a Prime Minister publicly prejudge the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court in the case of television licences? How should one describe the Minister, who directly denounced the judges as depriving children - have you heard the eve of populism - from the children's stations because they considered the Pappa law unconstitutional? We are, in fact, talking about unheard of statements. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall use my dentistry as well. How can not only those responsible but also the ordinary people characterise a constitutionalist, indeed, of whom the law - and I speak of the Katorugalos law - has been characterised by the entire state and political forces, other than the government, as a law of looting and reinsurance law? How can he describe that minister's statements when he comes out and says that whatever decision he takes the court, the government will not harm the law, but will only make some parametric changes? Hear, hear. Minister, how should one assess the Minister of Government, and indeed the Government Representative, when on the eve of the transmission of the case-file of "NOVARTIS" to the House, he visited the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay in order to be informed and then when the outcry occurred, did you make two more - three say that he went there because he had his case? Mr. Janakopoulos had a case and went there to spend his time and drink coffee. And how should one assess you, Minister, the Minister of Justice, who, instead of dealing with improving the speed, the quality of justice, rather than looking at improving the logistics infrastructure and covering the loopholes of the courts, for which you have nothing to show, prefer to focus on cases that you consider politically important to the government? Because the whole world, Minister, remembers your positions on too many cases, recently on the NOVARTIS case, about where the judges were from. Also, what opinion will the ordinary citizen of our country make on the underground routes and on the understandings between executive and judicial authority when the former President of the Supreme Court, well before - well to retire, is he placed the next day head of the Prime Minister's political office? Oh, what a coincidence this is and what a terrible synergy! Finally, how high is the sobriety with which judges must perform their duties? It's your last priority. It's not even a priority. Because you tolerate the components of the bracelets, because they are your components, which provoke threats, violence against judges and lawyers. Because that suits you. Because your system is a system with many tentacles in all forms of power. Because, as you have said, you want it all the power to build your own regime. But democracy, Minister, has tools and is defended. One of these tools is Parliament. We, therefore, condemn and condemn you for this fraudulent and systematic undermining of the cornerstone of the rule of law, which is the independence of justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mrs Christophilopoulou. We inform you that you're exhausted and your dentistry. We proceed to the next questionable MP, Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, MP II of Athens. Mr. Carras, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u75	I may use dentistry, Mr President. I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u76	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. I must confess that I come with respect and awe to discuss matters of justice at a time when we see that it is being raised in many respects. This, then, means that there is also a question of the form and exercise of the culture. Three are the pillars of democracy with that justice, which controls execution and can in the constitutional context also overturn legislative decisions. We have therefore tabled this question in which, with specific facts, we have given a dimension to trying to manipulate the work of justice in difficult and critical cases concerning the wider public interest. I do not want to repeat what my colleagues have said earlier on the facts, but I see another dimension which exists. An effort is being made, not only by positive acts of government, or by interventions of the government towards justice, but also by means of external factors. And that's something that worries me. What examples can I invoke? Visits to name the attacks to say a number of activists, so-called groups, to the courts, whether during the meeting or during an hour's conference, where they are trying to create a climate of fear and tension among judges. This does not, however, serve democracy. We also have a recent example in the administrative courts, the well-known 'Ruvikon' in the Council of State at a conference time, months ago in the Athens Court of First Instance. I must say that this attempted decline in the opinion of judges has fortunately found a reaction. And I will say how I see and conclude the reaction: On the day the Council of State is convening in full on the well-known issue of the Katorugalu law and the presence of activists with the casting of paint, I heard the statement made by the Vice-President of the Council of State who came out immediately and said: 'We will not be able to act. We continue to render justice." He gave us a chance. This does not mean, however, that this hope is not attempted to be erroneous or attempted to be curtailed by the government. I will mention two, three more examples, which in my view are pathologies, which lead to a deterioration of justice. And I can say that many times they are conscious and often they are targeted. What can I say? Can I say about the attempt we have that prerequisites have not been closed in justice since 2015, which have been signed as international agreements in the country? Why is that? All that happened is that we saw the Code of Civil Procedure published, but he was already ready before the January 2015 elections and simply had to be ratified. So I read: in September 2015 as a deliverable prerequisite was the reforms of tax law procedures. In other words, the most important issue, which is still pending, concerns investment, concerns the fate of people. The return of tax justice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will also use dentistry, Mr President. There has been no work, and I fear that the delay is also being realised in this area so that there is no possibility of investing in any unsatisfactory or of solving problems for ordinary people in terms of tax law, in order to feel that they have to knock on a door. Secondly, in February 2016 we had to have an integrated tax procedure. We don't even have that. In fact, in 2016 those that would have taken place in the previous period, September 2015 or February 2016 in terms of the media concerned had to be reviewed. Nothing happened. So we also have issues from the point of view of criminal justice and criminal law. I hear that some committees are working, I hear that there is a project that is important. What we see from the government and the Minister's point of view is to table some fragmentary amendments to the laws of his ministry. So we have not seen any attempts to deal with the problems of justice, and this in my own mind at least leads to the attempt to keep justice down, for the sake of other purposes. I would also like to say something else which at first sight does not seem to be relevant to the question being asked today, but it gives me the impression that this is something that is also conscious, which leads to the deterioration of justice. And when justice is downgraded, if you wish, ladies and gentlemen, and the mind of the judges is shaken, we now have much easier to intervene in manipulating and desirable results of extra-institutional factors. In my opinion, therefore, there is also the question of the scoring of penalties imposed by the criminal courts, with the well-known law that allows dismissal under conditions and I call the Act of Friday. I'm not one of those critics of a prison disarmament law. I think it is often necessary. What I am criticising is that they must at least be allowed to dismiss the offences, the heavier of which they are not entitled to do so. So what happened? As of spring 2015, when no criteria were laid down, prisoners who had committed serious crimes were fired. I must remind you that the only criterion for dismissal was the duration of the detention prior to it and not the kind of crime or the nature of the perpetrator. So, do you know what this led to? It has now led to a disgrace to the work of judges and to a disgrace to justice. Because when the criminal knows that he will soon be fired, regardless of the amount of the sentence, by carrying out a minimum measure, then why should the purpose and prevention which democracy demands be taken into account and act? I think, therefore, that if we sum up - because I see the time is coming - we have not only government interventions and attempts to manipulate and even high levels of cases in justice, but we also have an attempt to shake the minds of the judges, so that they will be more prosperous to interventions and, in addition, to the average citizen, that the authority of the judges should be shaken and that, if we sum up all this, we should be able to exert more pressure on the government to manipulate justice and from now on open up the justice of the Court of Justice. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Carras. I also inform you that there is no secondary time. I very much welcome the next speaker, Member of the Prefecture of Ilias, Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will look today in the light of the question of Democratic Incorporation for the intervention of the Government in the institutions of justice, the transformation of the SYRIZA. In other words, a political force which, thanks to the lie and the delusion he has produced, has been made by a minority majority and that by the institution for defending individual and collective rights, as a fortress against all forms of power that he had as a minority, he has passed as a government to reason that what we do not control, undermine or ignore. I mean, power changed SYRIZA's position for the institutions. It is a more general political view of this force, which has been expressed by the far too classical of the lip of a government official, that we "we have taken the government, but we have not taken the power". Ladies and gentlemen, I will come to the questions of justice which has analysed them very specifically, because, as you know, our rapporteur, Mr Papatheodorou, and the two colleagues who have been ahead of me, my most approved lawyers, have described them in detail, because I am not a legal person. Ladies and gentlemen, how does this concept of SYRIZA express itself as a whole in dealing with the institutions? I will give you a few examples. We talked here about the government's interventions in the right of strike, in Lock out, in the rights of workers. And the government did not agree to discuss with the top institutions of the labour union movement, the tertiary trade unions, the GSEE and the ADED. We see today that the Athens Bar Association decided to hold a referendum from 5 to 11 June on the hairening of the Athens Court of First Instance denounced that the Minister of Justice had completely ignored him. Who? His institutional interlocutor. We saw Mr Tsipras make reasons for the clean exit yesterday - which will not be clear or exit - from the SETE conference. Mr. Kontonis was here as a opposition, and he was also a parliamentary representative when we brought in the regulation that we have had the institutional interlocutor of the social partners in the SETE. And they denounced us. Did you see how power changes the attitude of Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA? Let me remind you of Mr Venizelos' attempt to invite Mr Kammenos to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency and that the majority of SYRIZA have destroyed the minority right, guaranteed by the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament, to protect Mr Kammenos. May I remind you of the government's efforts to break down judicial associations, a political force that has always spoken about the unity of mass movements? What else can I remind you of? The only institutionality of this government, ladies and gentlemen, is the recognition of the Troika as an institution. Nothing else. All the rest is being destroyed. Remember SYRIZA's position on the self-determination of the courts and compare it to the deep dip in the yearbook to make the best presidents of the Supreme Court? In one case he came out. He didn't go out on the other. I am referring to the classic case of Mrs Thanos. How is a government justified, after having drunken in a thousand ways the stay of Mrs Thanos and beyond the age limit of the Constitution, to have her on the other day a legal counsel of the Prime Minister? What about the interventions of government officials on the decisions of the TEI on television licences and threats of government officials? May I remind you, since we have been discussing economic issues many times here, the issue of the ship with the smuggling in Chania that still remains unsolved? Mr. Loverdos has raised it with timely questions. Let me seek, ladies and gentlemen, the responsibilities of justice, because it has not yet intervened in the fifteen thousand cases, which I believe have been omitted in the hands of the ILO and the IACC with a huge loss of revenue for the public sector. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the resignation of the President of the HR, which we had to see since the junta when the late Stasinopoulou resigned and, as our colleague, the famous trial of the Golden Dawn, which should have been accelerated, given justice, so that no one would play hideout with the fascists. I would say that apart from our 'category', which is documented to the Minister of Justice and the Government as a whole, one could say that he has another much greater responsibility, as we all think that the country's exit from the memoranda and committees is linked to development, which, on the basis of the reports by the international bodies, the OECD, the World Bank, the Economic Forum - you know what the Economic Forum is, where Mr Tsipras went and walked on snow, because it was excluded - they say that the delay in the administration of justice is the reason why our country ranks in the worst positions of competitiveness. The World Economic Forum ranks us in position 133 of the 137 countries, the World Bank in position 186 out of 190 and the OECD has spoken of the need for digitisation and fairness, as former politicians, recognised today, have estimated that the correctness of administration is not as high as the speed of judiciary administration and this is much more linked to the rule of law, and that is not more linked, ladies and gentlemen, to investments, as no one will come to invest in our country when he knows that it will never be justified, when he learns that six hundred thousand cases are pending in the courts from which the two hundred thousand are in administration, seventy thousand in tax and fourteen thousand in appeals. This is, unfortunately, the situation, and that's why you're laughing, Minister, but it's time...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u80	With the lies you're lying to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u81	The time will come for you to apologize, because I cannot blame you for having failed justice, you have succeeded in the manipulations. And the bad for you is that your intoxications will turn boomerang at your expense, because the political connections will change. That's for sure. That's gonna happen math. And when you're not government, you will enjoy the hands of your interventions. And so, then, you'll shout and protest, but unfortunately you won't be entitled to what you've done because nobody will hear you. Thank you, Mr President, and your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much. You've consumed your second-guess. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-one students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Mourni School of Chania. The House welcomes them and wishes them a good month. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, Member of the Arcadia Prefecture, now has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for five minutes. It also applies to you, if you want your seconds now, let me know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Most likely that is. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in our parliamentary group in view of the debate on the topical and urgent question, I have, as the Commissioner responsible for development, undertaken to say about the issues and problems that exist with justice. So if you ask an investor today the first two things that should change, I don't know if he'd first say taxation or justice. He probably said justice first, after taxation, or both together. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the good side - and let me go a little bit across from our colleagues - that I have confidence in the judiciary that you are not going to intervene. And I will tell you that in this period there are two major issues, millions and billions, namely FOLLI FOLLIE and the NATIONAL SAFALISTIC. You will allow me to speak about the 'NATIONAL SAFALIC'. This also concerns the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, because the New Democracy has not said anything about this. Not a word! Minister, I would ask you to see the issue of "NATIONAL SAFALISTICS", because it is a very important issue concerning justice and the rules, and through you the Prime Minister must also listen to it. The ‘NATIONAL SAFELISTIC’ was sold, due to the third, inappropriate recapitalisation made by SYRIZA and ANEL. And I want to tell you that the profits of 2017 - profitability in the tenth month - amounted to about 80 million euros. But let us hear, ladies and gentlemen, what happened: The National Bank has undertaken to sell ‘NATIONAL SAFALISTIC’ by putting two major companies, ‘GOLDMAN SACHS’ and ‘MORGAN STANLEY’ on a fee of EUR 10 million. I won't say why the ministers invest in these two big companies. They completed the competition on June 29, 2017, Minister. And he took over and took - you'll remember then - the competition by Mr. John Callamos and Mr. Koudouni. I want to remind you that John Callamos was the man who did the first job in today's President, Mr Trump, for his casino, made the meeting - and there are photographs - with the Prime Minister - and it's nothing blemish - on 14 to 18 October 2017. He had announced on 27 March - on 29 June, Mr Kammenos sold the sale of the "National SAFALISTIC", the Minister for Trade and the Ambassador of America and other ministers had intervened in favour of EXIN. Let's see what happened. Who's Mr. Callamos? Is he in Greece? He is in Greece through the ‘AIG’. He's bought an insurance company. Mr Calamos, ladies and gentlemen, I want you to listen to this - for two years, since he took AIG, until he said that he had no money, he had members on the board of directors, he beat up all over the world and said, "It's my national insurance policy, that is, it was worthless on it. He had two members on the board, Minister, while he has another company in Greece and stopped everything. He said, "Here is my company, you will not go ahead and you will not go on with the other." And he got inside of the company. And we come after two years and he says he doesn't have any money. But here, you will tell me: What is the government doing? Isn't it, sir, 40% through CFS the Greek state? I hand over to you, Minister - and I would ask you to give the massage to the Minister - a conversation of investors with Mr. Tsakalotos on December 11, 2017, which assures investors around the world that he has the money. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned mask, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And listen to a competition now, Minister, organized by the "MORGAN STANLEY", the HFSF, because the HFSF has 40% of the EIB. The guarantee in such a big competition is 10% on all sales, Minister. You're legal, and you know that. Listen, bail they put on such a big takeover. How much do you say, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the guarantee that they put in favour of the 'National SAFETY' and what if someone did this whole process? Not 10% and percentages. Just five million in the sale of a billion! In other words, one was running around for two years around the world, saying that "this is my asset," he made money, he did anything and there's no justice and a prosecutor to call and ask them why this happened! Minister, the state has 40%. Why does he not intervene on this? Has the country lost or not lost, the "National Asphalitic" by all this process? Should it be clear to the people and investors from abroad that there are no government toys, government actors, ambassadors, ministers throughout this process? I think you don't want to do this. I challenge you - and I say it publicly - that here - and then Folli Follie comes - there is a very big issue. The new Republic, ladies and gentlemen - and I tell you straight away - has not said a word about it, but not a single word! Neither has another party in Ethiopia said about this. If you were in Anti-Policy, you and your trade unions would hang on to your national insurance. We put it. I give you all the information I've said and all the publications. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I expect you, Minister, to investigate the case if interventions were made and because for two years two major companies - consultants who took ten million, could not see that they did not have the money. In any case, let someone explain why this sale was not made. How is it done in a state that we want investors not to be in transparency? I, Minister, trust you for that. I am sure that by leaving here, you will first inform the Prime Minister and ask him to see FOLLI FOLLIE. There they said it had five hundred million, and the Securities and Markets Committee says it has a hundred today. That's what the papers say, I'm not saying it. An investment, ladies and gentlemen, which an investor says has bought a billion and is turning it around Europe and around the world, can put up billions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u84	There's plenty of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u85	And because I see you've got...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Constantinople, you've been over one minute and your denology. Please don't open a debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u87	How long will he be talking about irrelevant issues?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u88	I understand that you don't like this. I understand. For a year and a half, we have been asking a question and Mr Chakalotos is not coming to answer, Mrs Kozobol. I'm ending this, Minister. Today is a good day for us, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, it's the first day of summer. In Spain, however, both the 'New Democracy' and the 'SYRIZA' have lost. The socialists are coming. We're on our way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u89	We thank Mr Constantinople and the conclusion of his speech. I very much ask Mr. Georgios Arvanitides, Member of the Region of Thessaloniki, to take the floor for his first speech. Mr Colleague, you have three minutes for your first speech and two minutes for your second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u90	I will take all the time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u91	Sure. I'm just letting you know. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, independent justice is a pillar of democracy in a rule of law. That's what the lawyers are saying, and that's what a lot of people are in this Chamber. Efficient justice is, of course, a pillar of the development and well-being of citizens. And when, of course, we have the combination of independent and effective justice, then we have a strong institution. This institution is the foundation of every modern Western state that wants to face the invitations of our times with confidence and optimism. In our country we have tried for many decades to create institutions. And I believe that our party claims that it has tried and established institutions throughout this period and, indeed, strong institutions. But who fear the institution of independent and effective justice? Apparently, Minister, your government, with its actions, works and its days. And as my colleagues have previously developed very well and thoroughly, your government wants to control, patronize, direct through closed power systems the institution and decisions of justice. I personally believe that there is a project of laundering and establishing institutional, closed procedures which will lead to unpleasant results both for our democracy and for the development of the country. And I explain: The book entitled "Why the Nations Fail", the Angeloglou and Robinson - Professors at the MIT - refers to the institutions of different cultures and historical periods. That is evidenced by the theory that, where closed institutions prevailed, culture, whatever state organization failed, collapsed or even disappeared. Where open institutions have been established with transparency and accountability, development and progress are evident. The way, Mr Minister, which the government is dealing with the issues of justice, by wanting to do according to the will of guilty, conscientious, scandalously existing or non-communication tactics, refers to the notion that it considers justice a closed institution of its own influence. Unfortunately, this concept of a contained administration of justice issues to the same party benefit and the counterfeiting of institutions and independent authorities from the current SYRIZA - ANEL governance will cost the country much more than we think. This goes beyond any opposition criticism. The twin problem of pluralism, maliciousness and delays in the administration of justice, which is the main concern of the promotion of investment projects, as has quite rightly been identified and presented in its investigations by the "internationalism" effort that has characterised the maliciousness and plurality and the way justice is awarded as one of the five dragons that hamper development, their only concept, is by means of establishmental practices to intervene in justice rather than to shape the context and conditions of the acceleration of private and public investment. Of course, tackling this phenomenon is in no way a priority of your own government. The fact is that we are not going forward so that this is not a progressive policy. The only thing that the government majority succeeds is to undermine the role of justice in democracy, but also the development of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, by undermining the independence and effectiveness of justice, you are undermining the future of the country. In this institutional catastrophe it is certain that the Greek people will say 'the same as here', whenever they have to be found in the polls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much Mr Arvanitidis. Let me ask you a question, Mr. Constantinople, if you're kind. To pick up the flash drive, which you delivered to the Minutes, you'll have to tell me if she's legally acquired.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u94	It's sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u95	I don't know what the sound contains.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u96	It's a public speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u97	It's a public speech. It should be recorded in the minutes that it is merely a copy of the Minister's public speech and it is not something illegally acquired or intercepted or anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u99	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u100	The same recorded conversation I gave, in the presence of Mr Tsakalotou, to the committee, to the Chamber, to a question. Mr Tsakalots accepted that this is legal, and he has said so, so there is no question of his origin.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u101	It must also be deposited in a text demagnetized.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u102	If you want a text that's transcribed, we'll do it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u103	If it's easy for you. If it's big, I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u104	I'll send it to your office.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u105	And now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u106	Now I can't make it up. But I think in SYRIZA you have the new technologies to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u107	When this is tabled, there must also be the text.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Chakalotos knows. This is a public text.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u109	How has the text been obtained?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u110	Because it is not possible to confirm it at the moment and obviously it is a public speech, I will not receive it until we see that it is legally acquired and that it is from a public speech. I would also ask the PASOK Parliament to ensure that they can do so by the end of the sitting, that they do a little transcript, or commit themselves to handing it over with the remembranced text.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u111	The thing is if he's been recorded in his knowledge.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u112	We'll see about that. Mr Constantopoulos, MEP, Aitolokarnania, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, justice presupposes a rule of law, a state guaranteeing and guaranteeing human rights and the equality of citizens. These principles are a prerequisite for the functioning of democracy. Unfortunately, in the last three years justice has been affected and the House has been watching swept away. In our question, Minister, there are, for example, the reasons for this conclusion. It is the government's political choice to make constant and uncovered intervention in justice, because none of us pays particular tribute to the transfer of political confrontation in the field of justice. Minister, gentlemen of the government, you are creating conditions of strong opposition. With your practices you sow winds and heated storms. And what you manage to do to date is to constantly deceive the feeling of attempting interventions that call into question the institutional independence of justice and its uninterrupted functioning. As a result of all this is the creation of polarization, which puts society and the country in the face of new dilemmas and new problems. I am afraid, Minister, that the government's moves are not well thought-out and targeted, but roughly and dangerously designed. You have, moreover, found, as a government that, in the consciousness of the Greek opinion, the unproof presumption of guilt works easily. Let me remind you that the strategy of mud in the fan does not pay off fruit and returns to her inspires. A recent example was the ‘NOVARTIS’ case. We said a world-complex scandal should be investigated in our country with care. "Everything in the Light," we said. There are ministers and MPs of SYRIZA and the ANELs who tore up their garments and swore "war against interlocutory" and "fight against lawlessness". Some have come to call the S.H.E.L.D. anti-constitutional. Even on a matter of top national importance and responsibility in terms of handling - I am referring to the extradition of the eight Turkish soldiers and the granting of asylum to them - we have again seen procedures that jeopardise the independence of justice. So justice is an easy victim, I would say, of political populism. Here, Minister, is a question raised: is this a deliberate strategy of the government aimed at manipulating justice? This question lies in the atmosphere and society. Remind me of a statement by the Prime Minister at the S.H.E. when he tried to pre-pay the judgment of justice. The Association of Judges and Prosecutors, on the other hand, in July 2017, came to state publicly that “there is a systematic effort by the Government to fully subject and manipulate justice to act as a government mechanism or a government partner.” All this, Minister, is happening in a modern European country which has a long history in the rule of law and its guarantees. So I wonder: What is the purpose of these actions? You realise, I believe, that they serve a dangerous strategy that the rule of law calls into question. We look forward to your answers and, above all, to your initiatives on the independence of justice and the incorporation of the rule of law for citizens. Democracy needs to strengthen the institutions for equality and equality in order to serve the requirements of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr Constantopoulos, for the time. The government has the floor on behalf of the Minister for Transparency and Human Rights Mr. Kontonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u115	Not now, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u116	You don't want to? Okay. Does a parliamentary representative want to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u117	We're waiting for the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u118	That's no point in asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u119	My colleague Mr. Vassilis Tsirkas will start with SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u121	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, the logic of questions is the questionable party, the honourable Members, to be put, to be answered by the Minister, and - as the Rules have changed years ago - to intervene the questionable party with his parliamentary representative, the honourable Members taking the floor, as well as the other parties - whatever they want - by taking the floor. And the government obviously. If we don't listen to the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u123	You're right about what you're saying, Mr. Loverdo. Just because there are two parliamentary representatives, they should be placed first and then I will speak immediately, before you take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u124	I think you're not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u125	You're right. I said it and I emphasize it. But because there are two Parliamentary Representatives...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u126	Do the colleagues want to leave? However, the logic is that we should listen to you on the objections...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u127	I understand, Mr Loverdo, and you are absolutely right, which is why I read the Minister's name. If you do not object, the two Members will speak, so that the Minister may reply in total afterwards. We're starting with SYRIZA's colleague, Mr. Circa. Here, Mr. Circa, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, justice is undoubtedly a democratic prerequisite, a pillar of democracy, which should not, of course, fall within the narrow framework of micropolitical controversy. Sadly, however, the PASOK and the New Democracy, those who are allegedly being cut off for the undignified functioning of justice, took care in every way, when they ruled, of poisoning her work. Contrary to the practice of the previous governments, the judgments of the Supreme Courts are guided to the bells and the deceased, especially if they did not serve their political objectives, all judgments of justice have been respected by this government. However, like every institution, judicial authority is also accompanied by pathogens created on your day. That is why criticism is not simply acceptable, but institutionally required. In a democratic state, however, criticism or expression of a legal opinion cannot be regarded as an interference in a democratic state. No one in a democracy can act as a judge without being judged at the same time. And justice is independent power, but not power uncontrollable. Our strategic plan for an institutionally strong judiciary is the removal from any intervention, dependency and influence. Our obligation is to restore the relationship of trust between citizens and justice. The sharing of state power is a fundamental principle both for the proper functioning of democracy and for judicial authority, which is an extremely sensitive issue in democracy. At the moment, opposition is seeking to distort reality by launching opportunistic accusations against the government. The only thing that finally works is to hit the justice institution itself once again. So I'd say it's good not to twist reality. And the attitude we have taken since the beginning is to restore this relationship of trust between citizens and justice. And the government is confined solely to the legitimate and constitutionally regulated exercise of powers and responsibilities conferred upon it by the Constitution to guarantee uninterrupted and well-regulated judicial function. The only aim of counterpopulation is to create noise. Do you, indeed, repeat your question on issues on which there has been an exhaustive dialogue both in the House and in the public sphere? In many of these, indeed, the Prime Minister himself has placed himself. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Therefore, the continuing questions about alleged interventions in justice have the effect of exposing the opposition itself, just as it happened in 2016, when discussing at the level of parties leaders about the alleged intervention of the current government in justice, the Prime Minister then quoted a series of earliest interventions, thirteen for accuracy. I imagine you will all remember the thirteen speeches, which have been a serious interference in the process of giving justice, which even went by night-time amendments and without an absolute majority in this House when they ruled PASOK and New Democracy. It is not possible, therefore, to suggest to us that those who promoted the legislative technique of oblivion on a regular basis should be allowed to make suggestions. So you have been struggling to present a picture of destruction since SYRIZA took over the country's rule in full agreement with the New Democracy. But the Greek people at this time, where we are discussing a very important and sensitive issue, such as justice, sees that with SYRIZA it ends with the memorials and that it is an opportunity to finalise with the forces that represent the old. So the question is where does this obsession come from? Rather fearful, because this government will succeed despite difficulties and obstacles. In the last three years we have brought to the surface cases of real corruption, cases that have shocked public opinion. From the large and politically-colored cases of tax evasion and laundering to the illegal and dark media and offshore companies associated with political persons and the affairs of the seashores and from the great corruption scandal in the CEDEFOP to the NOVARTIS case and the case of "NOOR1" we defend the popular will to grant justice and transparency. You have, however, decided to oppose catastrophe and that is why you have no place to invest politically, since you know very well that in the field of real confrontation, which is the improvement of the economy and the exit from the memoranda, your opposition is not convinced, because you have failed while we are successful. That's how you're trying to create noise. The Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights implements a strategic plan to improve the functioning of the justice system. Actions are mainly aimed at modernising, speeding up, increasing the effectiveness of justice, safeguarding and extending citizens' rights. We have had problems with delays in administrative courts and we have had a spectacular improvement in the time of justice. An important development is the fact that electronic submissions of main and temporary judicial protection to all administrative courts in the country were made possible a few days ago. This process is part of the great task of the integrated judicial management system with the main aim of speeding up and simplifying judicial procedures and serving thousands of lawyers and citizens. In addition, it is expected to complete the digitisation of the political and criminal procedure that has already been implemented in forty institutions in the districts of Athens, Piraeus, Thessaloniki and Chalkida, while in the second phase the project will be extended to all judiciary bodies in the country. With targeted legislative intervention, institutional areas have been implemented for many years. In reversed the image of a delayed justice, we are working on a justice that will be awarded in time and efficiently. The Greek people know very well who created the crisis of confidence in the institutions of the rule of law and who are struggling to rebuild a state that society will consider as an ally rather than an enemy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, too. Mr. Panayotopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u130	Madam President, do I not have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u131	Do you want to precede, or do you want to make a statement?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u132	We said, under the Rules of Procedure, that the Minister should precede the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u133	You want him to lead? The Minister usually closes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u134	We are quite flexible in terms of the procedure, but I would also like the Minister to take the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u135	All right, Mr. Panayotopoulos, no problem. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Kontonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that today something unprecedented is happening in parliamentary time. It is unprecedented because we are discussing a topical question of the Change Movement, the Democratic Alliance, which is a true copy of a question tabled a few weeks ago by the New Democracy. This, of course, has the funny side, that some do not have to put things in one order, to put forward their own claims and objections, but rather to copy the New Democracy question. But it also has its political side, because some do not want to forget old habits. If, in the past, the PASOK copyed the Left's programme and slogans, today is served on a copy of the conservative views and arguments put forward by the New Democracy, revealing that in all ways it wants to remind the Greek people and Parliament that it is a specific party of the Central Right, which is dragged behind the New Democracy, even on such issues. It's impressive, ladies and gentlemen! I put the question of the New Democracy in the Minutes. If you make a comparison, they are mentioned in the same order of time and in the same wording as those mentioned by the New Democracy. [[At this point, Minister Stavros Kontonis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned question, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Such a matching of views and claims I confess that I, at least in these years that I represent the Law of Zakynthos and the citizens of Zakynthos in Parliament, have never seen one before. So at least it is funny to refer to Spain, when we know very well that the former President of the Socialist Party of Spain, Mr González, had the view to cooperate with the Socialists on the right, which is also the case in the Change Movement with the divisions, controversies and the multiple charges for the policy of alliances in which the members of this party are persecuted. We know all about this. Fortunately, they make their views public, and no one can say that someone here operates misunderstoodly. Ladies and gentlemen, if you read the topical question, as well as the question put by the New Democracy, because I told you that they are entirely identical to content, you will not see any objections to the intervention of the Government in justice. And today, from the Step of Parliament, we have not heard such complaints. We have heard some views, which are characterised by arrest as interference, but they are not intervention. What is interference in the work of justice? It is the attempt to influence the judiciary of judges when they meet and are going to make a decision. Also, intervention in justice is when, with legislative initiatives, the individual government majority intervenes in the work of justice, when a case has been dealt with, either at the stage of the criminal prosecution or at the stage of the pending trial. From what I have described, nothing is described in the timely question that we are discussing. I would like to say that objections, for example, that the government intervenes in justice by making, as provided for in the Constitution, the choice of the leadership of the Supreme Courts, are not interference, ladies and gentlemen, they are the implementation of the constitutional requirement. I say that to get to know each other. In fact, this claim, with the selection of certain Supreme Judges for the positions on which they were chosen, was distributed. Ladies and gentlemen, let us come to an agreement. Did the government circumvent the constitutional check? Because if you were to come to plenary today and say that you were preceded and chosen by the highest judges, who in the year's time were in a lower position than others, then here you who ruled the place forty years, would have promoted a constitutional review, which would force the leadership of the highest courts to be chosen by the highest judges only on the basis of antiquity. Why didn't you? If you didn't, why do you come and blame the government today? First hypocrisy. Second hypocrisy. Has antiquity been respected in your day as a unique criterion? Not quite right. Why do you come to us today and raise this matter with us? In your day, in the place of the Attorney of the Ice, wasn't the twenty-first person chosen? On your day, on the New Democracy - PASOK, in the yearbook on the position of the Public Prosecutor of the Ice Bay. Why do you blame the government on this matter? Third hypocrisy. So we all realise that you have not come here today to have a substantial debate on the independence of justice. You came with cheap arguments to make cheap opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, is it an interference in justice - whether you agree, or do you disagree - that the Prime Minister should choose the head of his legal office? Is this an intervention in justice? Can one agree, can one disagree with this choice, but is it interference in justice? Of course it isn't. Is it, ladies and gentlemen, an intervention in justice that Mrs Xenis Demetriou's choice in the post of the prosecutor of the Ice Bay, a judicial officer, who glorifies the position of the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay during the time she serves in this position? But that's not all you got. You had the bad inspiration to report on the Tsatani case. Ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware that this prosecutor has been punished by the Supreme Disciplinary Board for acts and omissions in the performance of its duties. What are you saying here? That the government intervened on the highest disciplinary board to punish Mrs Chatani? And you come here undoing allegations of pearls and unfounded against the Deputy Minister of Justice when this case is completely cleared of justice itself. What's that? Is that an intervention by the government in justice? And that's not enough for you. In this case, after the current Vice-President of the Ice Authority, Mr Angelis, a preliminary examination was carried out, the conclusion of which was sent to me and I have already forwarded it to the head of justice, in which case, apart from Mrs Tsatani, and three other prosecutors, two others who have retired and investigated disciplinary responsibilities of all those who are active and criminal! - the Vice-President of the Council of State, Mr Gravaris, raises objections and requests for further investigation. And you come here today to say about this case, in which you are "built" to the ears, about the Vegeopulou case, in other words the manner in which the Government of Samaras - Venizelos had followed, that government interventions are being made? Ladies and gentlemen, there is one issue. Is criticism an intervention in the work of justice in judicial decisions? I explained it earlier. Criticism in judicial decisions strengthens the validity of justice. Justice needs criticism, there is no need for speech, nor can it be imposed. That is why, for centuries and centuries, judicial decisions were cast down. And they were also declaring in the field of citizens, as well as in the scientific community. However, I would like to stress here that this criticism of judicial decisions must always be done calmly and directly. Excesses and designations don't need to be. Therefore, all the things you mentioned as interventions in justice, because either the government or a government official or a Member of the government majority expressed his view, are not interventions in justice. On the contrary. Ladies and gentlemen, you have also referred to complaints and references from judicial associations, which gave their views on how to award justice. I want to tell you this. Judicial associations, as a whole, have every right to raise matters even in excess. Is this the first time, ladies and gentlemen? Oh, no. I have here, for example, an announcement from the Association of Prosecutors, which turns against Mr Dendia and 'categorizes' him for intervention in the work of justice. I'm filing it. [[At this point, Minister Stavros Kontonis presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] I have another one, which once again the association of prosecutors is against Mr Georgios Papandreou, the former Prime Minister. And I testify to that. [[At this point, Minister Stavros Kontonis presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] What does that mean? That the indiscriminate adoption of claims and views of judicial associations by political parties on matters committed in these communications is a preoccupational act. And if you want, at least, to be honest, you should accept and consider what the associations have said in the past against the former Prime Minister and the former Minister of Justice of the public order then. Otherwise, there can be no two-metre debate and two-tier debate. What I want to say about these announcements, however, is that the excesses, which have seen the light of publicity lately in a specific communication, which I have also reacted to, are similar to those of the judiciary - are a statement by the Union of Judges and Prosecutors - in Turkey and Poland, ultimately exposed those who issued it. Because they themselves came, when Mr Erdogan invoked this announcement, to say that Greece is the rule of law and the rulings of the courts are respected, and Greek judges enjoy all constitutional safeguards. You have seen how over-excession, unregulated political response and political opposition exposes those who take it and finally force them to reconstruct. What do I want to say, once again, ladies and gentlemen? Criticism in judicial decisions neither weakens justice nor discourages Greek judges to do their law and conscience. I have said many times that the rulings of the Greek courts, whether one agrees or disagrees, are fully respected and applied by alpha to omega. That is respect for judicial service, and that is respect for judicial decisions. Everything else is cheap arguments that no one has to do with reality. And you were inspired by these objections, which are included in the topical question, to refer to the case of "NOOR 1", when you were here, the PASOK, the New Democracy and the Golden Dawn, and you made the advocate of a life sentence for drug trafficking, bringing up a press reports against the Minister of National Defence and the prosecutor, who conducted the investigation. So today, ladies and gentlemen, where these false memories of the sentenced person first in life have been filed from justice, what do you have to say apologies? Because here you apologies are coming. What you were saying half a year ago proved to be zero in the clay, that it was a matter of whispering which you were unfortunately adopting in the Chamber of Parliament, without taking into consideration or who says it or why it says it. So now that all this has been filed by justice, by the relevant judicial boards, what do you say? Nothing. Again charges against the government. That's great! Some Members have referred to the case of the ship which has been checked and which is being investigated at the port of Paleochora Chania. I want to inform you this is a very complex case. Data I can't tell you any more. I do not know either, because a preliminary examination has been carried out, which has been repeated, because new evidence is constantly emerging. The mandate has been repeated three times, and at this time I would like to inform you that it was returned from the Central Port Authority of Piraeus on 8-5-2018 and was recharged to a prosecutor on 9-5-2018, the next day, for further study and treatment after the investigation that took place on three levels on very serious issues as far as I know, but without knowing details. I repeat that I am not entitled to know more. Where is intervention in justice? The Public Prosecutor shall carry out, in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, all the investigation, which must be carried out throughout the length and width of the case. So what do you say here about government intervention? You also referred to the case of the eight Turkish officers. I do not think it is a good idea to see what is going on. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of the eight Turkish officers, a request was made for the extradition of Turkish democracy by the Prosecutor of Constantinople. And this request for extradition was rejected by the Marios Ice to a final extent, to a second degree, irreversibly. Where is the government's intervention in the matter of the eight Turkish officers? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] But don't you see what Erdogan and his politicians are saying right now? Aren't you watching them? Where do you live? In another country? Can't you open any TVs to listen to the elementary? You had, in fact, once again here in Parliament's Chamber, the real idea to say that the Prime Minister has not yet disproved the President of the Republic of Turkey about the surrender of the officers, when we have repeatedly said - the statement made by the Prime Minister was clear and notice what I am saying - that the coups in Greece are not welcome, but as Greece is a rule of law, the legal procedure will also be followed on the issue of extradition and on the issue of political asylum. That's what we've said. But did you not follow the joint statements of the Prime Minister of the country with the Prime Minister of Turkey when he had come to Greece? And when the President of Turkish democracy was questioned by a Turkish journalist, why didn't he say and did not repeat what you say before the Greek Prime Minister? So stop taking what you hear and what you generally run from here and from there. With regard to the statements made by the President of the Council of State - and the old and new ones - I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no point in the government. On the contrary, two days after the publication of these opinions, a statement by the judges of the S.H.E. was issued, in which Mr Sakellariou is accused of trying to influence them. And you come here and join the statements of the President of the S.H.E.L.D. on the grounds that the government is trying to influence justice. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that what is being said in today's topical question, but also in the question put by the New Democracy, is nothing to do with what is signed. That is why today you have spent yourself here in a report on the independence of justice in matters regardless of the award. I heard Mr. Constantinople say what he said about national insurance and you said, Mr. Constantinople, and something I noted: 'There is no public prosecutor to deal with this matter? And what does the government do?" Listen. Another is the question of the intervention of the government in justice, and another is whether justice itself is slowing down. If it fails, you have the right as a citizen to refer it to the supreme institutions of justice, which will check and discipline those who do not do their job. But if you come here today and tell us that there is no prosecutor and what the government is doing, then you yourself ask the government to intervene, that is to say, to do something unacceptable, for which you are asking us today why it is taking action. Either one or the other will apply. I understand the deadlock you are in, because looking to find areas for intervention by the Government in the work of judges and prosecutors, you are in the vacancy and you are on matters that are irrelevant. What you said has a special interest. It is clear that some have to deal with this issue. It is also your duty to present these facts to justice, so that no one escapes responsibility. However, it makes no sense to say unscrupulous what you say from the Step of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a long list, unfortunately, of interventions in justice from the previous government. These are interventions mainly in pending cases, in criminal proceedings and in pending proceedings. Your Prime Minister had mentioned some cases. I would remind you that under Law 4024/2011 wage overdrafts amounting to EUR 30 million were made available to the School Buildings Agency and all prosecutions were terminated. Is this an intervention in the work of justice or is it not? Second, the Law Council of the State, based on the provisions of Law 4071/2012 and Law 4070/2013, exempts all liability for the administrations of all municipal companies, as well as any private entities. Is this an intervention in the work of justice? Of course and they are, because all these people in the municipal business were the staff of PASOK and New Democracy, who have been completely independent of local government in the past few years. With the n. 4255/2014, on the eve of the fall of the government, all criminal prosecutions involving the disposal of resources of the OAED have ceased. You took part in the D.A.'s work, which had been pinching some and controlling them. That's what you don't remember. You don't know them! And you say: 'Why has Thanos been head of the Prime Minister's office?' Fourthly, with Article 68 of Law 4139/2013, again on your co-government, it is stated that it does not constitute bribery - take note, ladies and gentlemen, - the mere material provision to express gratitude. You baptized bribe gratitude to save the heteros.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u137	Sweets!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u138	Yeah, the candy and candy, obviously! Fifth, with Law 4046/2012, the members of the bank boards and the staff of the Bank of Greece for the PSI were relieved of all responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u139	You guys brought an order!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u140	In 2012? I'm talking about Law 4046/2012! That's what you did. Are you yelling? You've heard so far!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u141	You signed them off with signatures.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u142	So you legislated on interference in justice and the annulment of criminal prosecutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u143	It's your plays!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u144	Our 2012?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Kutsuko, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u146	They've been through something about dates. Sixth, under Law 4141/2013, all criminal prosecutions were suspended in the administrations of public companies privatised, for public debts, to legal persons under public law, insurance funds and OTAs. There's intervention again. Again here to get some of the oil out of here, while prosecutors were looking for it. Seventh, under Law 4224/2013, the members of the Board of Directors of LARCO are exempted from any civil, criminal and administrative liability. It's a total outburst with law! Also with L.4224/2013, criminal prosecutions for the boards of the agricultural cooperatives stopped. Of course! Who were in the rural cooperatives? Blue and green strains. Alas! Would you leave them like that? By Law 4262/2014, criminal prosecutions were suspended for the offence of non-payment of debts to the State for non-profit-making legal persons. And you're talking about interventions. Article 263a of the Criminal Code, which provided for strict penalties for officials, public or private enterprises and NGOs subsidised by the State, was replaced in the event of the bribery or the break-up of public money. All trials and pending cases go! By Law 4146/2013, the Presidents, the members of the boards of directors and the members of the banks to enter into loans of all kinds with public-law legal entities, private-law legal entities of a non-profit-making nature in the general public sector. Twelfth, with an amendment you have legalised the triangular business groups, which have been exempted from fines of EUR 1 billion. Thirdly, just before the elections you amended the electoral system in the courts. Here I will tell you: If you amended it after the elections, no one would say anything to you, but that is where you remembered on the eve of the elections. And one last thing, which I think is most disgraceful: I have said this once again in the House: on the Samaras - Venizelos government the documents of the political people who had to reach the House stood at the Ministry of Justice. One case was left at the Ministry for two months, and was not then sent to Parliament, but was referred back, in breach of the law and the Constitution, to the prosecutor of the Ice Arrow by the Minister for Justice. And the second - it is even more tragic for you who are asking today about your political space - has remained at the Ministry of Justice for a month, was it sent to Parliament on the day it closed, on the end of the Second Session and what happened? Under the terms of the Ministerial Responsibility Act and Article 86 of the Constitution, the responsibilities of political persons in the matter of submarines fell within the amortisation of the Law on Responsibility of Ministers and of Article 86 of the Constitution. Is this a little bit of a concern to you? Ladies and gentlemen, I will say a few other things in my dentistry. Give me one more minute, Madam President, to say that it is now under way by the government - and I shall mention in detail - a large and emblematic programme for speeding up the process of judiciary rulings, which is already spectacularly fruitful.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u147	Is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Loverdos, it is being implemented right now and I want to tell you about this because Mr. Koutsoukos mentioned some magical figures. I'll only tell you this and the others I'll tell in my dentistry. Mr. Koutsouko, you have no image of the courts, you are not a lawman, Mr. Loverdes will understand it better, because I will refer exclusively to the administrative courts right now. Ladies and gentlemen, we have received a loose end at the administrative courts, which went beyond three hundred thousand pending cases. The rate was not growthal in unfinished. At this time, following the institutional initiatives we have taken, the amendment of the Code of Administrative Procedure, the strengthening of courts with judges and officials and after the implementation of the integrated management system in administrative matters, the loose end has been reduced by less than ninety thousand. It's impressive, ladies and gentlemen. I personally did not expect the loose end to be reduced to 35%. I was pleased if, in the first phase, we had a 15% reduction or 20% reduction. What has happened is impressive and rather than the government praised for this amazing and unprecedented achievement...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u149	How many thousand were there?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u150	I told you that the loose end in 2015 was three hundred thousand cases, and at the moment it is below ninety-five thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u151	How did that happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u152	It's done with the measures we've taken. That is not what the government says, the General Commissioner's report says, and I want you to take this matter seriously. At this rate we will also be moving in the civil courts. The case has already been reversed there, but that is why, Madam President, let me speak in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u153	Mr Minister, of course, you have completed all the time of both your dentology and tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u154	All right, Madam President, give me some time to talk about speeding up to justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u155	Yes, all right, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u156	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u157	Not now, Mr. Papatheodorou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and students and seven teachers attending them from the School Centre of Cardamylon Chios and from the Municipal School of Wood Cyloceros Corinthias. The House welcomes you guys.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u158	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u159	What do you want, Mr. Papatheodorou, why do you have your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u160	Just a minute, Madam President. I give you my word.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u161	No, Mr Papatheodorou, we are not having this debate now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u162	On staff, Madam President. We're not having a conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u163	They're taking courage, too. It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u164	On personal grounds, I would like the floor for the statement by the Minister for Copying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u165	Mercy! Did I say anything on personal grounds? That's not serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u166	The Minister has not personally referred to anyone, Mr Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u167	The reference to copying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u168	Again symphony! I'll give you a minute to say what you think.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, only in ignorance can I return the introduction you have made. I pay it to ignorance rather than to a bad intention or a bad option for the following reason: a question had indeed been tabled by two Members of the New Democracy, to whom you replied. For what you call copying, Mr Minister, you are unaware that, except for the case 'NOOR 1', which came to light...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u170	Is that personal, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u171	I'll explain why it's personal. I address the floor as the first signatories to Question Time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u172	What are you talking about? Is that personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u173	I can tell you that from ignorance, Minister, what you call copying is very simply from November 2017 -- the whole thing you read - in my book "The country we were hurt", on pages 71 to 81. If you haven't read it, I'll give it to you. I give it to you as ignorance, not as a bad intention, because you have answered in the New Democracy that you do not consider the facts accurate and explained to us your great reformist moves, but to us you are not entitled to start your speech, saying that it is a copy. Posted texts have been published since November 2017. The question was lodged on 1 February 2018. I think you understand this and withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Papatheodorou, you've exceeded the minute. I'll let you know now. Because the Rules of Procedure have provided for them all, it says: 'Where, after an explanation of staff - where is the staff in this particular case? - the President or the House decide to give the floor, the Member concerned speaks of whether it is reproached after the end of the speech of the one which made it and, if it is delivered on a different basis, at the end of the debate on the matter, during which the matter was raised and, in any case, at the end of the sitting." I don't give anyone else the reason, and I'll keep this whenever I'm presiding. We're not having a syndicate here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u175	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u176	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u177	What do you want, Minister? In the end, you'll say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u178	Madam President, I do not want to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u179	We said. It's not just personal. It's an opinion. We should all read the Rules of Procedure and not, in general, hold a trade union within the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u180	Madam President, I want to make a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u181	I am not giving you the floor, Mr Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u182	The previous President-in-Office has asked for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u183	What? The flash drive?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u184	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u185	And you need to talk? Bring his flash drive and transcript.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u186	But I don't understand. Why don't you give me the floor? For a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u187	Well, well, well, well, We will now open another debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u188	I am pleased to say that the Minister saw them very seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u189	Get in the driveway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u190	Our Parliamentary spokesman will say how the government's orders on these matters are legally made. We're MPs. I am commenting in detail on what the flash drive contains and in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u191	We'll only get it. It's not a tape recorder. You will have copied what is contained in it. We don't take that to the Bureau. Because I see you're holding a page, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u192	Madam President, I have exactly the page and the flash drive to check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u193	No, I'm not picking it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u194	You don't get the flash drive. I'll give you the page with the address on YouTube, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u195	Is that what practicers do? Can you imagine we're coming in to strengthen the Minutes with what goes down to everyone? Please! Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u196	Madam President, the Minister had asked for the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u197	Normally it's you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u198	Madam President, because the Minister has asked for the floor, I thought you would give it to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u199	He was invited to speak to the Minister, he did not ask for the floor. I'm talking about class. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by making a very brief reference to a broader issue concerning our country and related to FYROM. The agreement means, in addition to the issue of the name, language, nationality, erga omnes, the revision of their constitution and other specific issues, and two more crucial issues. That's what I want these recorded here with my intervention. Firstly, the understanding of the difference in the timetable for resolving this serious issue, with the salamation, as it has prevailed in this harsh term, to say the fragmentation of the subject, which, as such, must be rejected immediately if the other side puts it. Secondly, the fate of the agreement, if it were to exist, to the United Nations, because there are issues which need to be cleared up here. The aspects of this development in the United Nations are crucial and very serious and must be the subject of the agreement itself. It is difficult, it has too many critical details and, as we know, after so many decades, it is also multifactorial. That is why, as a Democratic Integration, the attitude of a very serious party is entitled to time, which said that it is reserved - since it is not a government, it is a party of counter-population - for it to be placed when the agreement is signed. However, it is not a positive development - and I conclude with this - the Foreign Minister's permission from the non-documents of Maximus and the Government's representative, I think last night or today. With what he said, we seem to have a dimension on the issue between the two government partners, clearly and publicly, and now we have a dimension between Maximos and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, at least on matters relating to the political handling of this very serious issue. One further topic is this: In replacing my colleague Mr Koutsoukos to the Committee on the Report of the Parliament, I followed the briefing on the first quarter of 2018 made by the coordinator of the Office for Budgetary Control on the part of the House, former Secretary General of the Ministry of Finance, namely SYRIZA, Mr Koutedakis, a man who attacked, of course criticizing Giannis Stournaras for the preventive credit line and who put it on the table yesterday as a possibility. He then shot down with what he said the government propaganda, propaganda Tsipra in terms of the supposedly clean exit. The Prime Minister and the most popular and usually happy Minister of Finance what do they have to say? Because from what I remember in this Chamber, Mr Tsakalotos speaking with Mr Venizelos - and it was almost all of our parliamentary group here - attacked us on the issue of the preventive credit line, saying that we are a party that we support something that does not contribute to the country. That's what he told us. What does he have to say now? What is left of your political self and of his own personal political self? Nothing at all. Nationalism, perfection and dash. Now I have to go to the topical question. I am very happy to do so, because we are right to make this political intervention. Before going to the subject of my speech, as I have structured it, I would like to reply to the Minister, who has introduced several minutes, standing up to the criticism we are making of interventions in the field of justice with New Democracy and bringing us to a party in the centre right. I think I heard he said something like that. Mr Minister, you are not right and I think that you are unfortunate. I have in mind from my student years a phrase by Jean-Paul Sartre, according to which each one is what his actions show. So I want to tell you this. I oppose two arguments. The first argument is that in your actions in the field of justice you are far-right. You're a full party on the extreme right. With what logic? On the basis of respect for the Constitution and, in particular, Article 26. The non-respectful party, the government that does not respect the separation of functions in relation to European political geography, is ranked at the extreme right-wing parts of the political system. This is what you are according to your work, not in your words. Secondly, with regard to this issue in itself, you have to understand that, when a party is in opposition, its constitutional and political duty is to oppose the government. Hence the opposition parties often take close positions in the House. It is a legality of the Parliamentary Republic. Hence the representatives of the ruling parties, when they are in public debate, on televisions, when they are in serious parliamentary debates with intensity, have the opposition to them all and often all journalists, especially in the year, while they have been in power for many years. And you in the time of crisis are most of the years of any other government of the crisis. This prefecture of democracy cannot be ignored, nor can you say at another stage in the parliamentary confrontation that we are communists, because some of our criticism can be identified with the criticism of the Communist Party. This is happening in the republics. The government is government, and the opposition is opposition. The opposition opposes the government. That's how many years you want to understand? So do not make unfortunate political statements, because they do not stand, for the two reasons I have just mentioned. On the substance of our political intervention, the Prime Minister said in this Chamber on February 8, 2015, with the thrill that resulted from an expression of personal self-esteem, the following: "We are every word from the Constitution of this country. In this Constitution we have sworn and this we will serve." I should use and use the verb "comfortable" at the time, with what has evolved, because it has flowed too much water into the groove since then and because I have in mind a phrase of Sophocles: "Geose of great language knots. It ends." Big talk. Have the actions in these very big words been responded, that a politician who respects himself must avoid or hate them? Here the man himself spends a few months, one or two years and describes justice as his function and the independent authorities as "institutional obstacles". However, Article 87(1) of the Constitution stipulates that justice is awarded by courts established by ordinary judges who enjoy functional and personal independence. That independence has disturbed him. It made him call justice 'institutional obstacles'. Why? I'm bringing an example. Because that incredible prediction - to which Mrs Christophilopoulou referred - was not verified at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, according to which she did not give a chance to many, millions - I think that she had also made an exaggeration - had made a decision for the Council of State other than the one he would have wanted. Since I made this report, Mr Papatheodorou responded to our current question, Madam President, because he was accused of being a replicator - and this is the staff, which is very easy to see - by showing his book, to which these thoughts refer for the first time. So the author of the timely question and the man who supported it here mentioned dozens of examples of your interventions. I can't repeat it, I don't have time. However, I will point out your unconstitutionalities, which you would observe every word of the Constitution: the Pappa Act on Licensing, the Friends Act, the Katorugalou Act on Pension Reductions, the Justice and Finance Decision on "From where you belong", the Law on School Managers, the provisions on the redundancies of hospital governors etc. At one time, especially during periods that constantly made such decisions, you thought: "Well, these people have an arrangement that conforms to the Constitution have they done?" We are talking about interventions and unconstitutionalism. And now we are going to a critical omission put forward by Mr Constantinople. He told you about the sale of the National Insurance, with evidence. It has also consumed all his speech on it. What do you say to him? You answer him in an indirect way, accepting - and you can deny that in your dentistry - that there may be a problem here with the impulse of the judicial and public prosecutors. If you have such an assessment, you must intervene. Article 30 of the Code of Criminal Procedure allows you to intervene. What can you do? Make an order to the P.A., so you can tell him to run a preliminary examination, if that's a matter. My colleague's watching it. To be honest, I haven't watched it with that indulgence, but I've heard about it. If there is one issue with this dimension, the Minister who listens to this - and the government with his Minister - if he appreciates that, of course, he can intervene. And this is not an unconstitutional intervention. It is an institutionalised instrument by the Code of Criminal Procedure completely legal intervention. But you in 'NOOR I' intervene outside the institutions in a rough, explicit and undisputed manner. Here, a case like this which one might say: 'Find my child, so much is heard...'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u201	But the Minister himself said that this was serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u202	Yeah, I heard. I heard his intervention. That's why I'm saying he's indirectly admitted. But if he accepts - if I am wrong, he will deny it in his denology - there is also energy due on his part. It is therefore not only the disciplinary authorities of the judges, but also the possibilities that the law gives the Minister to intervene. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Now, I don't want to quarrel. We are making rational political interventions and, above all, we are not devoting anyone. We have arguments. But when you say that all of what we say unjustly, a response 'Cyprian' style could be: 'Assess the people to tell you, because you go to the nipples and ask the people, they will tell you immediately.' I don't talk like that. I move to this House what the topical question has done, namely what they say about you - I mean about your government - the judges themselves. Indeed, a paragraph deserves to be read in order to be our answer to you. We say, therefore, at point 15 of the question - Mr. Papatheodorou has noted it - "In the face of this confrontational situation, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors called in a resolution in December 2017..." now, when we also asked the question, "to safeguard fundamental constitutional principles and strengthen judicial independence by taking appropriate measures, in cooperation with judicial associations". He stressed ‘the consistent position of the judiciary, that avoiding institutional conflicts and systematic attacks on judicial officers is a necessary condition for the proper functioning of the regime’. That's what they say. Now what you're telling us, that's your business. Minister, the political part of my speech is completed with the phrase that you have lost political time, you are at the end. Power slips like sand from your hands and you probably cry about it instead of reacting. However, I was surprised and I do not want to blame anyone for the intervention you have made - and I am closing it, Madam President - from the Step forward, by saying that it is up to the administrative courts to speed up the evaluation procedures of judges. It's an impressive number you said, I have to say it. I was also surprised when I listened to him. Mr Karrass informs me - and we will be very briefly informed about this - that I do not embrace it, I do not know - that what has been done and this really remarkable assessment of the cases has been approved by all the parties to the dispute and that the actions in question have been rejected. That is how this process has accelerated. And because the Ministry of Justice realized there might be many injustices there, it gave sixty days, by order you brought, for re-exercise of that right. If that is true - I am transferring it to my prototype - I would ask you very much to clarify it if that is the gigantic intervention. It's not a giant intervention. It is an interruption of the problem instantly to reintroduce it, perhaps by the same or a little less volume, with the re-introductions or re-introductions of the actions concerned. I would ask you very much to clarify this. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Panayotopoulos has the floor. Your time is six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u204	With a relative tolerance, please, Madam President. On the one hand, because I am a Parliamentary spokesman, without a right to a dentist, on the other, because, in his thirty-five-minute position, the Minister not only answered the topical question of the Democratic Association, not only did he reply to our question in a way that was in common, since the real facts we have invoked and therefore we invoked them both, but, in addition, because he denounced from the Step and a large part of the 'Black Bible' of justice, Zoe Konstantopoulou, which means, Minister, that Zoe may leave SYRIZA, in fact, has never left life, at least spiritually. In any case, I wish everyone a good summer, although I predict that it will be a warm summer - I hope it will be a good one - since all the fronts are chasing, and indeed quite threatening for the government and the country. Because the clean exit account eventually becomes a clean supplementary memorandum with new prerequisites, in order to complete the fourth assessment, with measures already adopted since 2017 to bring into force from 1 January 2019, with first and best of all the pension cuts, which the National Analogue Authority of the European Commission has now confirmed, with the prudential credit line being considered to be about certain - and we see - instead of free exit on the markets and, above all, the return of insecurity and uncertainty both in Europe and in the world. And this is an environment unfavourable plus everything else. But when I spoke with open fronts, I would like to come with a reference to our big national theme, the Skopje nomenclature, and ask: What exactly is going on? Will there be any official briefing by the government, instead of leaks mainly from Skopje's circles? We have called on the government and the Prime Minister to answer very specific questions: First, has he accepted the Alperatorial Requirements of the other side for ‘Macedonian’ and ‘Macedonian Identity’? Has Mr Tsipras accepted that there is a 'Macedonian language' and a 'Macedonian identity'? Let's know. They're not telling us. Secondly, has it retreated from the national position of erga omnes, namely that the name of the neighbouring country will apply to all uses, as opposed to everything, and within and outside Skopje, which will necessarily mean a revision of the Skopje constitution? Thirdly, we are hearing about an imminent letter from the Greek Government to NATO, which launches an invitation procedure for Macedonia to join NATO. Is that true? Because, if this is the case, then Mr Tsipras has obviously accepted Macedonia's accession to NATO in advance, without fulfilling the conditions for the elimination of the alpha-corrosive and expansionary petitions from the FYROM constitution. That is to say, it gives a lot now, without getting anything but assurances of any future compliance, which we consider to be particularly harmful to our national interests. Fourth question: Does the agreement in principle by Skopje Prime Minister Zaev, the personal agreement by Skopje President Ivanov, have the support of the government partner? Mr. Kammenos came back from Monaco - all the nicest endings - he's here. Is she in position? Who's that? Because either we have agreement here, consensus from both government partners on the country's final position or we do not. What about this? In any case, we say that the New Democracy does not support such an agreement, agreed in instalments, with incomprehensible concessions, total abandonment of national fixed positions, with a fatal advance on the 'green light' for the integration of Skopje into Skopje and the European Union, against absolutely uncertain exchanges. We consider such an agreement to be clearly nationally harmful. Thank you, but we won't. And I come to justice. On January 17, 2018, we did table a question entitled "Three years of government interventions and attacks on justice", which we denounced - by recording twenty-two incidents until December 2017 - the government's systematic and organised effort to make justice a controlled tool of its political pursuits, violating the principle of separation of powers and the operational independence of justice, which are a key pillar of the rule of law. Some months later we got the answer from Mr. Kontonis, in an aggressive style, as usual, but also in some cases inappropriate. In principle, it states - and I quote some points - that it is reserved for the nature of the events that have taken place, and then it is reserved for the accuracy of the facts and then speaks of the narrative efforts of Members or of those represented that are not matched with the people. This is a dangerous reminder to me of the threats to popular courts to the full resigned President of the Council of State. The people in whose name the only people in charge of interpreting it are, of course, this government and no one else! Look, here a little bit - the Minister is questioning the facts. If reality doesn't agree with us, so much worse for reality! And I ask: haven't all this happened? Are these crises and theories? Are the vulgar Polakis critics, say, in justice when he speaks of war with justice? Is it a legal interpretation or a real interpretation of a decision to say that we have a war? Did the unprecedented procedural, procedural and anti-constitutional legal acronyms not occur in the case of 'NOVARTIS', which, in the conscience of the people - which you so inconsistently invoked - has already been recorded as a deportation of political opponents? Obviously, they've happened. In the recent past, the Prime Minister himself spoke of an institutional obstacle when a judicial decision prevented political objectives from being pursued by the government. The Minister of National Defence found it advisable to admonish a telephone isovita in prison, and the control we carried out in him had nothing to do with what he said, whether he was right or not, but with his own involvement in an outstanding criminal case, obviously uninstitutional. There was our control, and that's where he focused. A member of a governmental majority has stated very well in the work of a parliamentary committee of inquiry that 'the law is what the majority wants'. Well, this approach is not random, nor a constitutional approach. Either because some ideoleptics that turn urban democracy away from being the key element of this, which is the rule of law, or because some cynical authoritymen consider that justice as a system must be subverted and serve political pursuits of this power, rather than being "the power that restrains power", according to Montesquié, a common component of these behaviours is the organized effort to manipulate justice. In this respect, we are in no way identifiable, but we are in association with the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, who in many cases - worryingly many - resolutions have spoken about, among other things, a systematic attempt at full subordination of justice, with a view to harming their prestige, without having any intention or intention to constitute, as they have been accused of, an annex to the New Democracy Press Office. We've heard that too! So - and here is the pity, and I have said it - all this debate, all these attempts to manipulate, disorientate the debate on justice from its main point of view, which is no other than the basic reforms to be made to the system. And that's really a shame. I shall conclude, Madam President, and thank you for your tolerance. Speaking of reforms, I'm gonna use E. U. Justice scoreboard for 2018. It is a system for recording justice performances for each country - member of the European Union, a comparative scoreboard in the countries - members of the European Union for 2018, which records total government performance. The results are disappointing, Minister. In a graph entitled “Time needed to resolve disputes in civil and commercial matters” it is stated that in 2014 it took a little more than three hundred days to resolve the dispute, while in 2016 it took more than six hundred days. In another graph entitled "Time needed to resolve administrative affairs" it is estimated that in 2015 something less than a thousand days needed, while in 2016 it needed more than a thousand days, so it was worse. In another graph entitled "Number of pending administrative cases", according to the E. U. scoreboard in justice, the result table, the first is Greece, with a huge difference from the second country, in outstanding administrative cases. Another example of graph I'm going to mention, so I don't get bored. ‘Counterfeiting of illegal activities, average duration of judicial proceedings’. This country has not even given evidence. Mr. Papagelopoulos, who tells us so much about efforts to combat corruption, did not consider it appropriate to quote evidence here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Panagiotopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u206	I'm done. Once again, Madam President. I won't talk anyway. At the closure of his proclamation, which was announcing his resignation by Mr. Sakellariou from the Council of State, he uncovered the famous "There are current judges in Athens", in paradoxical terms, the "existing judges in Berlin" which expressed during Friedericos of the Great Prussia a mill in Potsdam, where the summer palace was, when he protested about the emperor's effort, then to claim his mill because he was disturbing the summer recreation of the ruler. And what did he say to him about 'there are judges in Berlin'? That in justice against us we are all equal. And I will go there, to the independent judiciary, in order to claim my fairness on equal terms to the most powerful monarch. She's always in it, and here's the interesting thing. When Frederic heard him, he did not express displeasure with the insolence of the humble national but expressed satisfaction, for he realized that the people express confidence in justice in their country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u207	All right, Mr. Panayotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u208	Any comparison with our own is regrettable when our own political leader regards justice as an institutional obstacle when it contradicts the political pursuits of the government and does not delight it. And this sad collision is also the sad print of the works and days of the present government and in the field of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u209	Twice a year, Mr. Panayotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u211	It's not a matter of thanking you. It's that they're claiming other people. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-three students and students and four teachers attendants from the 12th Municipal School of Chania. We welcome you to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Cassidy, has the floor. Mr. Cassidy, you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u212	By taking in my hands the text of the relevant PASOK question, they realized that I live a theater of irrationality. Vaggelis Venizelos signed this text - Turcoglou according to Wikileaks - the rapporteur for the Law on Responsibility of Ministers, who not only undermined justice, but literally executed justice in Greece. Noteworthyly, Minister of Justice at the time was Petsalnicos with his special partner, the current anti-institutional prosecutor of Ice Vourliotis, who was a central person in the procession against the Golden Dawn. And I'm going to say some other interesting names along the way, which need to be noted. So I come to ask, and once the Minister is present, and he will give answers to these questions, because these questions are made in the name of the Greek people, what is happening with a series of cases in which we have been truly undermining, terrible and terrible intervention in the work of justice: I start with economic crimes, such as the famous sea-savings of the parties, where with the most famous amendment of April 2013, in fact, all criminal responsibilities for parties and bankers have been lifted, for over four hundred million euros stolen by the PASOK and New Democracy parties from the state. What's going on? A year and a half ago, the Committee of Inquiry into the maritime loans of the parties has been held. There is a conclusion, the findings have been made to the prosecutor of corruption, every month we read in the newspapers that there will be references to the guilty or rather those who are not just guilty, those who have broken public money because evidence has been filed in both the committee of inquiry and the prosecutor of corruption and we do not see sex moving in this case. So what's going on? Otherwise, to come to SYRIZA's interventions, I should not just talk about PASOK and New Democracy: I had tabled here, in this Step in 2013 and 2014 a series of evidence, documented by television and recorded films proving the interventions of the previous government of Samara - Venizelos in justice. For the infamous sound, by which former Prime Minister Samaras instructed the prosecutor Doyako to imprison his political opponents, namely the Golden Dawn MPs, came the first court, the prosecutor came, sent the lawsuit to the House and asked that Samaras' criminal responsibilities be investigated for inciting to commit a crime. So this case-file remains locked in the drawers of SYRIZA. I have sent to all Members a letter in which, in fact, I am transferring the original text of the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's text. And the government majority, which had a duty - on the basis of the constitution and morality - to bring this case into discussion and to do what was done with NOVARTIS, that is to say return the file to justice, because it is not within the duties of a Prime Minister to take calls and order his political opponents to be imprisoned, so this is where SYRIZA, the government majority, burying this case, covers this crime act of the previous government of Samara - Venizelos. And even in the days of SYRIZA, the famous prosecutor, Isidor Doyakos - "Panathenaikas" in the sound - has been promoted and is today an anti-institutional prosecutor of the Ice Bay with a government of SYRIZA! SYRIZA has found them with the New Democracy and the PASOK, because in this case the Golden Dawn is being persecuted in the most illegal and unconstitutional way. I am waiting for an answer to this letter that we have sent, or rather on the basis of the case-file that has been sent to Parliament, why does not what has happened with NoVARTIS, to return the file to justice and justice, on the basis of the expert opinions carried out by the Hellenic Police Department of Criminal Labs, on the basis of the Baltaku video, which is legitimate evidence, to initiate the procedures laid down by the law. Another speech of SYRIZA: A few days ago, the current Vice-President of the Parliament had said in this Chamber: - I read from the Minutes - "Justice to carry out its debt to fascist racism and xenophobia". Let me remind everyone that the duty of justice is to judge on the basis of evidence rather than on the basis of your communist ideas. And when a Vice-President of Parliament comes out in this Step and tells justice how to make a decision, this is a constitutional diversion, an illegal act, and I say again that these words will be sent to the European Court of Human Rights and will be condemned by the Greek state for these illegal practices at the expense of the Golden Dawn Party. Of course, SYRIZA is more wicked than the New Democracy. Immediately the party came out and cleared the Vice-President of the Parliament saying that the country must make Hitler's nostalgics and their racist speech and not justice, of course. However, the intervention remains and has been carried out. There have been crimes, the division of powers has been destroyed in Greece. Today, on the occasion of the so-called negotiations on Skopje, it turns out that the House has been destroyed, because the House has no information at all about the secret actions carried out by the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister. There's no briefing. We are learning from the channels and newspapers your actions on this major national issue of Macedonia. There is a secret, as you say, 'negotiation'. The performance of our Macedonian name is a moderation line. And that doesn't change as much penalties as you put on the Members of the Golden Dawn. Tsipras speaks of Macedonian nationality, while Kiro Gligorov said that we are Slavians and we came to the area in the 6th century. And Tsipras is about to go to Prespes to meet Zaev, speaking of Macedonian nationality and language. I suggest to Tsipras (...) and not return to Athens. Because you've become more Skopje than the Skopje. Gligorov said they were Slaves who invaded the area in the 6th century. SYRIZA, today, many of his members and the Prime Minister speak to you openly about Macedonian nationality and language. This is also a national betrayal. From that point on, I wonder, where is Panos Kammenos? Where is Panos Kammenos wearing the socks of the parachute and submarine destroyer in the variation suit, now wearing straw to go to Monaco? Where's Panos Kammenos? Will it go to Las Vegas when it is time for the current coup d'état to delegate Macedonia's name to the Skopje? With the conspiracy of the New Democracy, which reacted to the ethnic-strategic "Ilidenian Macedonia" because it was annoyed by Iliden. But they accept the use of the term Macedonia as synthetic in the name of the state of Skopje. A neo-democrat here has not dared to say that he disagrees with the granting of the name of Macedonia. I conclude and call on the Greek people to present this to the rallys of next Wednesday throughout Macedonia, and especially if the present government ever dares to bring such an Immigration to the vote, that everyone present in this House should be able to give a strong response to all those who are carrying out our homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u213	Please delete from the Minutes the phrase of Mr. Cassidy... These are characteristic of the style and reason of this party.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u214	It was a way of telling him. That's what we talked about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u215	It's okay. That's not what they're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u216	You didn't realize.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u217	Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Madam President. I will be the advocate of this question that I have before me, which reads: "Systemically undermining justice by the government and an orderly control and manipulation operation." I would like to remind the questioners, who are no one present, as far as I can see, that Article 90(5) of the Constitution is an old article. And everyone's judging it, everyone says it needs to change. The government cannot, in fact, appoint the supreme judges. And when we really want independent justice, I think it's alpha and omega. But that's not all, don't be fooled. When the supreme judges have a question of life and death to the lowest, they should also be given the opportunity to participate in the Supreme Judicial Council or the proposal of the late Sotiris Baya how justice will become independent. And one question is: does this party, which has ruled for decades in this country, now remembered intervention in justice? I have a right to ask: what was this party blocking, which I remember made an intervention recently for a constitutional review and then a few days later forgot it again? I am the champion of constitutional reform. Article 90(5), to change, to improve and, indeed, justice, because it is the third pillar of democracy, is to be shielded. We should now come to each other. There is no country on the planet, there is no one country in the European Union that exists Article 86. Someone said something about this article. I just want to refresh your memory and say this. This bizarre 'cost of limitation' does not apply anywhere in Europe, in any country. What is that about the people of this party who came here, I think, Mr Venizelos, Minister of Justice, Mr Petsalnicos, etc.? What has resulted in this Article 86 that no one wants? Is it raw or not interference with justice a short omission of offences? And why would it happen? Have we forgotten that? Are we doing our self-criticism? I want to come to specific events, and I will speak with dates, to see what kind of intervention this government is doing in matters of justice. I would therefore like to remind you that on 11 October 2017, regarding the 'NOOR 1' case, - if I remember correctly, this question is the 11th objection to its question - the penitentiary officials in Chalkida find a phone number of Mr Yannisakis. For those who have an ambulance memory, Mr. Giannousakis is a prisoner of life on the ground floor and the appeal is pending at the court of appeal. So when this phone was found, it was seized and indeed it became what had to be done. Irene Giva, for those who do not remember, is the prosecutor who sent Olympiacos President on charges - there is, of course, the presumption of innocence and we all respect it - for drug trafficking, trafficking, etc. So that's what the D.A. asked for, see what this phone says, in a case where we already have - be careful - we have eight dead. I'm doing a little parentheses here because I've heard a lot about "hoodmen" for people who make constructions, etc. We all know that in cases of drug trafficking, serious corruption, a large piece of witnesses disappear, commits suicide or murder. That is why the institution of the protected witness was established. 89% of cases in other countries, in the United States, and also in Europe, with the intervention of more protected witnesses, people in this Chamber call them "coopers". We had eight dead in this case, and the prosecutor, Mrs. Jiva, sent the decision to the Judicial Council to rule. So the Piraeus Judicial Council considers that the withdrawal requested for the period from that time will not substantially contribute to the investigation of the case and that the preliminary examination will not make it difficult, that is to say, to see what the life-long prisoner Giannousakis said about a 2,1 tons heroin trade. It is therefore necessary to reject the request as unfounded, and it was considered by the Piraeus Judicial Council. I'm saying that to see who's intervening and where. The Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, Mr. Vourliotis, in this sense empties the decision of the Judiciary. And, indeed, he wonders about this very important finding and commands, so that we can get together and not get away with it. Ms Jiva's request is accepted by the Council, but it has been set up by other judges. It took seven months from then, and it could have been in ten days. I would like to remind you here of 'NOOR 1' - because in eleven the President of the Independent Greeks is inaugurated - that Giannousakis has some time been confiscated with an Indian. The Indian was soon later murdered. He's one of the eight murdered. Janusakis desperately wanted to talk to someone. This is the intervention of the Minister of National Defence, which was also the cause of judicial investigation. Whether Giannousakis has changed his statement thirty times. His confessions, however, led to the criminal persecution, which is under way. A second case - to see who is intervening where - I have it in front of me and is concerned with the NOVARTIS case. I've heard too much, something terrible, captured complaints, etc. The NOVARTIS case went to the corruption prosecutors. Fourteen packs were found and they said that the corruption prosecutors should not have this case and they should collect signatures to leave and go further than that. In his honor, the Head of the Athens Public Prosecutor, Mr. Kanellopoulou, did not accept this decision of the judges. He picked them up, explained to them that it's illegal what they're doing. The Ice Bay Disciplinary Board - I have it here in front of me - decided that the prosecutor against corruption with Law 4022/2011 has sole responsibility for corruption cases and takes over all the relevant procedural documents. And so the 'NOVARTIS' case stayed with the corruption prosecutors. They've heard the unbelievable. I don't know what to say. Kanellepoulou is a skanker? And the Ice Bay Disciplinary Board? The word ‘construction’ is used easily. But it's hard to prove. And because there are new news, I would like to remind you that recently - it is three-day news - Michael Cohen, who is Mr Trump's lawyer, was accused of getting $1,200,000 from the NOVARTIS to put medicines - if something reminds you of - on the list of Food and Drug Administration, namely, the USEF. There was no word "construction", nothing was heard. No one was indicted. The Senate and the special senator, Mr Wyatt, have intervened - that's what his name is - and that's not what it sounds like.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u219	Finish, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u220	Just a second and I'll be done. I know I don't have much time and I want to say a word that doesn't have anything to do with today. I want to remind you that the construction is the FBI, because that's where the story started! It's the United States Justice Department! They're all in the shaft! The capital market committee of the United States is a plagiarity! Skating is all the interrogators of history and other things I could say until tomorrow. First of all, I believe in the presumption of innocence and have said so sincerely. I really hope that these people will use the evidence they have. But to sue a judge who is entitled to make the decision, when he has already consulted the Ice Bay disciplinary court? Demonstration, of course, laughs at every bitter man. These lawsuits went to the file against the judges, I say all this because interventions in justice have never been done - which should have been done - in the 'SIEMENS' case, they have never been made for armaments. It's been nineteen years since the stock market and no one was punished. Television licenses by decision of the Ice Arrow have been unlawfully released. He didn't raise anyone. And I saw this strange question too, but the Minister answered about the real interventions. I want to finish, for half a second, Madam President, to say that there is a court case, which has nothing to do with today's or maybe it has a little more to do with it, but in any case... A bank clerk at a bank in Malta, which is not a protected witness, gave evidence to a journalist. The reporter was found blown up with her car. He also called on the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister's wife for various papers and especially Panama Papers. The reporter's dead. Ephimousa asked for asylum in our country and the Court of Appeal has rightly held that this woman should be given asylum. A prosecutor - his right, I am not interfering with the work of justice - has appealed and in fourteen days is discussed in the Marios Ice. I would like to believe that, because the meetings are, once again, eight dead in the case of NOOR1 - justice will work as it should - not my intervention, I have the right to make my judgment - on the fourteenth day of the month, which discusses the subject of this woman, which I really think if she goes back to Malta, her life will be at risk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u221	Mr Mavrotas, Parliamentary Representative of the River.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in just six minutes you cannot exhaust such an important issue as manipulation of justice. I shall therefore try to give a signal to today's pathogens to understand the dangers it poses. I will not go into the many specific cases which of course extend, and before the last three years, perhaps not to the same extent. Either these are called rotating doors between justice and politics, either in six criticisms of unsubstantiated judicial decisions or signs of government interventions in judicial investigation have been mentioned by the previous ones and I will not repeat them. Our democracy, as we know, is based on three pillars: the executive which is the government, the legislature which is Parliament and the judiciary, i.e. the courts. The closer these pillars are approaching each other, the more unstable our democracy becomes, and on a small rod can collapse. On the contrary, the more independent and the more distant these pillars are - imagine a tripod - the better they support over-structure, which is democracy, so that it can withstand turbulence. In Greece, unfortunately, these pillars often come close to each other and affect the stability of our democracy. So the foundation of democracy is the separation of powers. Legislative power creates the laws, the executive governs by applying the laws, and the judiciary is judging by interpreting the laws. Because of the lack of non-existence between the Member and the Minister and due to the misinterpretation of parliamentary procedures to facilitate the various governments, the separation of legislative and executive powers has been cracked. Also, because of the executive's interventions in court, cracks are identified in this distinction. Result? The country is in danger of sinking into an institutional confusion, an institutional diaphragm with painful consequences for the quality of our democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look back, and in particular in three and a half years, every decision that the government does not like will see a sketch of attacks on justice. It gives one SYRIZA executive to another, one MP to the other, and of course one minister to the government sometimes and to the other and to the other. So we're not talking about anything random, but, apparently, about a conscious government choice. That is why, when words like 'the government, but not power' are heard, we are creating a sense of a state-of-the-art concept where power is one that belongs to us. But the expression 'institutionally counterweight' is not random. There is a need to restore the equilibrium of the system and the equilibrium situation are the real democratic processes. On the other hand, when judiciaries see loyalty rewarded to the government with skilled divestments in hierarchy, they wonder: Are objective crisis and conscientiousness hamper careers? Are they disadvantages? Is the more general polarization, in which all of it is grounded, even judicial decisions, finally go to justice and we also have 'ours' and 'ours' there too? Are we pushing the judges to choose a camp? Fortunately, I do not think that the judiciary is so vulnerable to polar practices. "There are, therefore, judges in Athens, to paraphrase the well-known word and any examples of "logue" and "logue" are, rather, exceptions. After all, on the basis of the data of the recent pan-Hellenic investigation of "internationality" the institution of justice for Greeks is in the third place of those who trust most. However, on the basis of the time-consuming results of the survey, it is also a tendency for citizens to feel that this confidence is falling and falling. And in this he has responsibilities and the political system which, instead of helping to improve it with substantial reforms for the more rapid administration of justice, does exactly the opposite: he uses justice as a field of political and party controversy. It is not, of course, court judgments and above-criticism, especially those concerning the judges themselves. It is, however, necessary to make this criticism documented, structured, institutionally, rather than latent and hysterical. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we must learn lessons from the recent and final past, so that in the Constitutional Review there can be safeguards for the true independence of justice. And there are worthwhile proposals for this. The quality of our democracy depends on the permeability of membranes between the three powers. The greater the diffusion of one another, the greater the quality of our democracy, the more distorted. The big bet, then, is to ensure the independence of powers. Strengthening the institutions of democracy goes through weakening ties and relations between executive and judiciary. In demanding this independence, the task of the political class is not to undermine the judicial function and the duty of the judiciary not to engage in political function. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Madam President, I will end in a minute. It is not something that trust in the institutions is built on one day. It is built every day through constant examinations that all of us and politicians and judges are giving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. You're the only one who spoke in time. Mr Cavalellas, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, has the floor. Mr. Cavadela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, explains from the Minister of Justice, Mr Stavros Kontonis, that the New Democracy is calling for government intervention in the work of justice. They say in their text that the SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence attempts systematically and organisedly to hit justice and make it a subordinate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u225	We asked the question, not the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u226	I say the New Democracy blames. I didn't say the question was asked by the New Democracy. Maybe I was wrong. Excuse me. In any case, too much has been said as a threat to justice. We think they're interventions. The dissatisfaction in expressing that we have taken the government but not the government, is particularly concerned by the fact that it refers to us in the system of governments. That's right, then, they're denounced. However, the New Democracy forgets its own sins, sins confessed to its own executive, their MEP, Mr Kyrchos, who confessed to intervention in justice. In his reply to the Georges case, Mr Kyrchos admits that there were political interventions, political influences as he said, when the New Democracy was a government. And he blames for the justice that he has a reasonable syndicate and that they have destroyed the Memorandum obligations, maintaining their wages and their earnings, while the rest of the Greek people suffers the reductions. So there are a lot of intervention cases. The previous Members have said so. There are also detailed questions here. I'll remind you of the most ridiculous case, when Mr. Pappas wanted to be a super-canner, he wanted to control everything and only wanted four channels to manipulate it. So he imagined that in a European country he can do whatever he wants. And it brought us a report from Italy, which spoke of four pan-European channels, while Italy has thirty a pan-European channels and many of them are also high-definition. With the new technology, there is no restriction. The limitation was in Mr. Pappa's mind. When the Council of State was found to be unconstitutional, the law of Mr. Pappa began, government reactions began with unprecedented insults against justice. I would remind you of something that is a blow against justice against democracy. Mr Kretsos said that judicial decisions can be binding but not respected. You're opening up a ferry, and we're going to collect this behaviour sometime. We also had a similar incident with Mrs Gerovas, who said something very popular, that they deprive them of this decision of nurses, doctors and resources for the kindergartens, as if they were going there. Either way, if we have more channels, we'll have more money. I can't understand Mr. Pappa's logic. A few channels more money or more more money? I guess the second is true. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done in a minute. There's something dangerous. You have invented, through the Ethics Committee, pressures on Members not to speak freely. You found 'German girls', you found 'prosecutors' sold and threatened with 'the MPs' terms. Now you've worn another cloak. The President of the Centro Union said yesterday that it is a betrayal to make Macedonia's name available. So he was invited to the class by Mr. Voutsis, who allegedly corrected the President's saying. But I'm asking. Where was Mr. Voutsis, when in Athensis were these insults sounded for germans and for sellers? Where is it today, when your own Member of the European Parliament is getting beaten up by a journalist? We're not listening to anything. You see violence only in the alpha direction. You don't see your violence. You're forgetting her. Mr Voutsis has an institutional position and should not have been hidden, he should not have taken a stand on it. But they are your own children, who are organized attacking. It is therefore an opportunity for them to also be classified as a criminal organization, because they have all the evidence. They're organized. They go organized, break, burn. They don't have a soul for the "Marfin" children who were burned? For the current attack on Mr Boutaris - and I shall end - I want to say: we strongly condemn violence from wherever it comes and for whatever reason it is being exercised. But we also condemn the insults of the mayor against the Pontius and against our Macedonia. And the mayor went there to provoke. Where he was swearing, he went and said he didn’t even give his destitutes to exterminate two hundred and eighty thousand Pontians. So he went to pretend to be the victim. Do not forget that the people of Thessaloniki put him there to take care of the Thessaloniki and not to make foreign policy. So I recommend to him that he gather the trash, because I have gone to Thessaloniki once, twice and for all, and it was a chaos and not a foreign policy. One last thing I want to say. Instead of changing the name of the airport, it's better to change his last name, because I'm confusing him with the wines, Mr. Boutaris with the alcohol. Of course I've stopped buying it because it's a bad mood for me. Elections are coming. I therefore call on the citizens and those who did not vote to vote, because this is the only way that the country can change its course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u227	Mr Cavadela, it was not appropriate to justify the violence against Mr Boutaris.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u228	I didn't justify it. I said I condemn her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u229	You said he tried to challenge it though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u230	Sure. If I swear, I don't even give my feces for your genocide...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u231	What's that? Freedom of speech and freedom in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u232	That's not what it's called.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u233	Anyway. It's not the House now to make constructions. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Madam President. From the position of the Minister, I think that certain conclusions are drawn which concern, in particular, justice, regardless of whether or not we have a different view of real events or are interpreting them differently. At the moment - at least from what the judges carry, from what the judicial associations are carrying - there is a sense of abandoning and questioning justice - and this is a dispersal at the same time - and I think that no one disputes it - that either terrorist threats or terrorist acts are recurring against judges. Our view - and that is why we have tabled this question - is that the interventions of government officials are injuring the authority of justice, often entail hidden threats to the judges and attempting to guide or intimidate them. But the main political issue, Mr Minister, is another one and let go of the opposition. I tell you that we may have quite a different view of the same facts, of conducting different political analyses and political approaches. But what would be very important is this. When judicial associations themselves come to express, in an unprecedented way, their concern about the functioning of the political system, about the functioning of the constitution, about the conflicts between justice and the government, I think that your role, the basic political, constitutional role of the Minister of Justice, is not just to say that we had similar announcements in previous governments, but to be concerned about why judges are thus expressed in order to protect the validity of justice. There's a key point. Interventions in justice constitute a substantial retreat of the rule of law and institutional and constitutional content. The state-of-the-art authoritarianism shown by the government in many areas of public policy is transferred to justice, and the functioning of the institutions of democracy is altered. I have not today heard a conviction from you, as I have told you, from the political differences that it is not possible for the Minister of Government to refer to judges and tell them rodents. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] This, at least, should have been condemned by the Minister for Justice - any Minister for Justice - against any of his colleagues. That is why I told you that such interventions are creating conditions for the intimidation of judges, the incomprehensibility of procedures, they violate the basic principles of the national constitutional framework and the European Convention on Human Rights, namely the basis of our legal culture and affect the core of the rule of law. But the political question is: why is that not? Because we are convinced that justice and the judges were classified - with an unlikely lack of awareness of governance and constitutional responsibility - with the enemies of the regime. Those who either in their attitude or in their decisions do not satisfy the government or on the other hand express opinions, such as trade unions, are enemies of the regime. The construction of internal enemies is a necessary complement to the status of authoritarianism I was talking about earlier. And they are, in fact, a serious slip to a democracy, MPs and ministers, to denounce justice for blocking government work or the Prime Minister to characterise judicial decisions as institutional obstacles that he will find a way out of. Let's agree on this. We must agree that there is a'red' line. Because, in our view, the populism of the government and yellowism of some forms have never brought about political manipulation and the continuous evacuation of a state policy, to blackmail and manipulate judges and to make decisions desirable to them. That is the problem that we wanted to raise from the very beginning. It is the problem of the need to rebuild the rule of law, not only because it is an element of identity of the democratic culture but because it is, at the same time, a basic value for protecting rights. The fact that the citizen only has justice to resort to and protect his rights makes us responsible for the functioning of justice, and when on the other hand there is intervention, exaltation, confiscation, yellowism of judges and this comes from members of the ruling party or from forms of the ruling party, then there is a problem of democracy. Rebuilding the rule of law is tantamount to establishing principles and values of democracy in a state that respects the citizen, his freedoms and his rights. That is why, unlike what you said, it has fought over time and shaped the democratic party and has managed to insulate itself as a value for the operation of democracy, namely, the protection of justice. That's what we did. With this justice you have chosen the conflict, the conscious controversy and the imperfection of the institutions so that we are today forced to tell you this. The role of the Minister of Justice is to protect the authority of justice. Once we have such phenomena, something's wrong. And that's what you didn't answer! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Kontonis. Although you have exhausted time, I will give you dentology and tritology together, that is, fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. And I may then ask for the floor for one or two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u237	Of course, Minister, to close the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr President, for tolerance and understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, it is interesting that in the debate today the issue of the negotiations of the name of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia was proposed by New Democracy. And it is interesting, because about fifteen days ago there was a very interesting interview between the former Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Varvitsiotis. Mr Varvitsiotis revealed how, we have suffered a heavy diplomatic defeat for so many years - as he mentioned - and how and who were those responsible during the period of New Democracy, with Prime Minister Mr Konstantinos Mitsotakis and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Samaras, and the country did not reach a solution, which he described as excellent on the basis of the Peneero package. Mr Varvitsiotis said that the fear of the then Prime Minister Mitsotakis whether his government and the intransigence into irrational positions of the Minister of Foreign Affairs have plunged the country into this situation that we have been experiencing for so many years. It is therefore of interest that the New Democracy should tell us if it takes over the historical responsibilities of this situation. And it is of greater interest that the current Chief of the New Democracy - and the son of the then Prime Minister - should stick to his view that there should be no negotiation and that there should be no further referral back to the bells, because, as he has said, we will not unite the Skopje to divide the Greeks. What's the matter with New Democracy? I would like to say that what the government is putting forward as a responsible position is continuing in the direction of the national line for a complex name, which will apply in the face of everything, with a constitutional review and with the removal of all the anti-corruption perspectives which, at any rate, may have been formulated in previous years by the neighbouring country. That is what I wanted to say on the issue that concerns the entire Greek society and the Greek Government. We should take a responsible attitude to all the democratic parties, to conclude the negotiations and, as the Prime Minister has informed the political leaders in the first place, at the end of these talks, that there will be further consultation on the point of ending the talks. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of my philosophy, I referred to the issues of speeding up. I would like to tell you that the results are already impressive where the measures we have taken at all levels - institutional, logistical and electronic - have been completed with regard to the issues of the administrative courts. I would also like to say something that I emphasised in a recent speech. The electronic submission of pleadings to the administrative courts is now also valid from the day before. Ladies and gentlemen, justice changes and changes for the better! This is also confirmed by the European Commission's report that we have a huge delay due to the abandonment of justice by previous governments, but in recent years we have improved. The European Commission recognises this with the 2016 data. I reported to you 2017 data. In that sense, ladies and gentlemen, we have received a tragic situation. The electronic systems had planted. There was nothing going on positively. The building infrastructure has been in an incomprehensible state for fifteen, twenty years. Both workers and judges and lawyers are right to ask all the laws of the country to do something. But you also realise that there must be a list of priorities, because there are cases in which there are problems, but there are courts in which the problems go beyond every limit. I am referring first and foremost to the Court of First Instance and the Court of Appeal of Kilkis, for which a solution, like the Court of First Instance in Edessa, to the abandoned building of the Court of First Instance and of the Court of Justice of Chios, is to be found at the Court of Justice of Heraklion, which also wants improvements, as is the new legal palace in Heraklion, for which I have spoken about a recent visit to Crete, and of course to the use of the former judiciary in Chania, which we have taken care of. The situation was tragic. The abandonment crossed every limit. And those who are responsible for abandoning today come to tell us that the electronic system is not running very quickly, for example, in justice, that the measures we have announced and launched and applied to improve logistics and staffing are not being implemented very quickly, and they know that the situation is being reversed at the moment. Since the status of cremation we have reached the point, to be recruited at this time, through three CSCE competitions, dozens of officials who have increased formal qualifications to help this process. And ultimately for the first time in the last two years, we have so spectacular application of electronic systems. For political and criminal justice, I would like to tell you that the first pilot phase for the Athens, Piraeus, Thessaloniki and Chalkida courts is now closed. We will see impressive results there, since even teleconferencing is anticipated not only in the administrative courts but also in the civil courts, and we will avoid transfers and deferrals of the courts. In this direction we have also announced the haircut of the Athens Court of First Instance. Ladies and gentlemen, the haircut of the Athens Court of First Instance was a legislative provision in 1981. It was not implemented, despite the fact that they were all aware that it was necessary to do so, due to pressures and customer transactions that were taking place in those years. We have to move on. That is what the studies we have made public, which have been prepared precisely so that we do not go blindly. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you once again that the solution to these problems is not going to be given by staying still, without doing anything. If we don't do anything, we'll bolt. It must be done in areas and must be done at all levels at the same time. We must not say 'we must do this and leave the rest'. It must be done at all levels, just as it has been done in the administrative courts. I would like to remind you of something at this point. A few months ago our Government took a legislative initiative precisely in the direction of dismantling and speeding up. Who was that? Consensual divorces don't be extradited by courts. Do you remember the legal world's reactions in particular? I was threatened with abstention. Today what is seen? That this measure was constructive and was also in favour of lawyers and institutions but also economical, because they now co-operate two lawyers without the intervention of a judge and therefore institutionalised their role, but also financially because two lawyers are involved instead of one. Of course, the citizen is also served because he does not go to this maximum of delay in the adoption of a judicial decision, since it is immediately adopted. So we see that the initiatives taken and implemented by the government in this direction, despite the reactions, have had beneficial results. With regard to the questions raised by Mr Loverdos on the matter of national insurance, I should like to say that Mr Constantinople has made a complaint from the Step of the House. What he said is things that need to be investigated. That's what he said. But I ask. Why have these not been put before justice? Why are you calling me today to activate Article 30 of the Code of Civil Procedure, while you could have been addressing it so long? Is the government indebted to something? Because if he's not indebted to something, there's no question of it. I think you understand that. If you see that there has been something ruthless for so many months, you should have contacted a competent prosecutor. If you have not addressed you are today calling on the Minister of Justice to activate Article 30 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. But aren't these absurd things? Ladies and gentlemen, I have said this before, but unfortunately I have to repeat it because I have heard the rapporteur for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Papatheodorou, referring to interventions in justice. First of all, from what he said, there is no intervention. If he considers the crises in decisions adopted, I told you that this is not an intervention. If you want to call it your right to intervene. I can't impose anything on you. However, ladies and gentlemen, when Mr Stournaras had from the Step of the House he spoke of a decision of the Council of State, which had declared certain provisions of the law unconstitutional, and said that the Council of State was not entitled to form budgetary policy, then he was right? Why this hypocrisy? Why this political bipolarism? Why this bilingualism? Why two yards and two weights? Then you've been a pain in the ass? Then what Mr. Stournaras was saying, was he violently intervening in justice? My personal opinion is that it expressed an opinion on a decision adopted by the Council of State. He had the right, like any citizen, to express his opinion. It didn't affect justice. The decision was made. The judgment delivered spokesman. So, if that's right, then you didn't lie to Mr Stournara, why do you come here today and pretend to be the baby virgins? Can you explain it to me? Why are you doing this? Don't you have anything else to say? Don't say anything better. Let it go. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that the initiatives taken by the government in recent months have also been approved by international bodies and bodies. I'm telling you this so you know it. It is not just that it is recognised that, for the first time in Greece, we have accelerating the indicators and improving the indicators, despite the fact that we have a huge task to do yet. The Government has been praised and regarded as examples of good legislature both in the bankruptcy code, with which the procedures are speeding up, and at last bankruptcys, which started and never end - and those we have been aware of - and those who have exercised the law of the Government on electronic auctions are finally being brought to an end. I would like to refer to the latter for two reasons. First of all, because it is confirmed in practice that electronic auctions are the most secure system of auctioning without intervention by third parties. I have said on several occasions from the Step of Parliament that the third parties were the underworld and the mafia - you remember them - who controlled the auctions in the way they were made. That's over. Secondly, because seven months have elapsed since electronic auctions and no one has come to tell us that a first popular home has been auctioned. I told you in December, when you were all saying that the first popular home comes out in the hammer. So today, why don't you bring an example and say, here was the first popular home...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u239	Are you watching the auctions? The Wednesday we spent...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u240	What are you talking about, Mr. Comrade? The Association of Symbolists has issued a statement to you, not to mention a more serious word. We therefore have a situation here, which is more like a political Waterloo of Antipopulation. The government has succeeded in completely exalting the auction system, but also in completely protecting the first home. Ladies and gentlemen, much has been said today. From the unacceptable interventions of the previous governments, in a legislative way - not with a café gossip - in justice today we have a government that fully respects and implements the decisions of the courts. The most important thing of all is that it does not interfere in the exercise of the judicial work, either in the judgment or in the proceedings. And that, no matter what you say, you can't overthrow it. The worst thing for you that you can't compare to the present government, compare the sinful past to the present. As much as you call for communications and so on, trade unions, I have to tell you that such communications - I told you beforehand, you do not want to hear it - were issued for the former Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Public Order at the time. So I want to tell you to be vigilant in such announcements. We read them, take them into account, but where they are unfairly placed and where there is room for improvement - because there are good news - the government is directly dealing with and improving the situation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Loverdos has the floor for six minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u242	To begin with, I would like to turn to my colleague Mr Papatheodorou and ask him this: has Mr Stournaras, my colleague, ever said, Mr Stournaras, to be a 'trug' judge or a 'familiar' judge?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u243	No, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u244	We have not heard this from previous ministers and previous governments. There is a real originality here of the government of nationalism. We're going beyond that on issues of greater substance. Our topical question refers to interventions in justice, but also to the hit by the government on the independent authorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u245	Your question doesn't refer to that, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u246	Of course, he referred to the PSE. I would like to point out what had happened with regard to the PSE, and I would like to point out how serious our contribution as Democratic Incorporation was and how serious it was for me personally to have the PSE administration and for there to be a normality after a member of the government himself has been overrun. But it has been added, Minister, to the 'client' of the institutions that you are hitting and the legal association. Mr. Koutsoukos mentioned it to you. I want this in my dentistry, as you caught it in your dentistry as a topic, to point it out. Yesterday I heard Mr. Vervessos' press conference and saw from a closer perspective the issue of the division of the Athens Court of First Instance at a time when there is a need for mergers in the administration and the structure of justice. The division of the Athens Court of First Instance in three is a matter. I'm a member of the district. I can tell you that the easiest thing for me is to say that you're right, because something is going to go to the pigeon, something will go to St. Friday. I'm fine! Is that how Greece will proceed? Is that a necessary measure? It has to be explained. You have no arguments. Here we have problems at the one Court of First Instance, not only in Athens, but also in Thessaloniki. I'm an active lawyer, Minister. I didn't exist once. I have a picture. There are staff problems both with regard to administrative staff and with regard to judges. There are infrastructural and digitization problems. The Athens Court of First Instance is a very big primary court. The fact that you break it in three means, firstly, that you have money for infrastructure and people, and you do not have money to fill in the organic positions that are now required for the Athens Court of First Instance. The splitting may be a political client game, do some joy here or there, but it is either rationally structured or injurious. Municipal arguments that a citizen should not leave this district or the city of Athens to go to the center when it comes to a citizen who will have to do so once in five years, are very poor and I would say cheap. You're talking to a member of the district who doesn't want to play demagogic games. You will either be clear and rational or your project is done in the air. It is not right to call the president of the Bar Association and to say that he is bogging about something that the previous presidents have been working for. And Mr. Kouvelis was building up against the then-government? What about the late Takis Pappas? Were they all screwing up?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u247	Did I say about Takis Pappa?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u248	Oh, no. The argument, however, is similar to the previous ones on these matters. So we have to do this project at a stage where we are all trying to merge to work better - you are trying in reverse motion and direction, division - to justify it with sufficient justification, or else in the House we will confront it. Now, with regard to the subject raised by Mr Constantinople: A Member rarely - not when - will resort to the middle of the law. There must be very serious reason and there must be no things that should have been done by the judicial authorities or by the Minister of Justice. Mr Constantinople told you that he has raised this issue with parliamentary scrutiny too many times and the Minister of Finance is not answering it. It's not his right. Well, she's not answering. You heard it today. We stressed that. You have an obligation to see what your duties are and if you can and want to do so in order. We consider it serious that you said that, as you have heard, it also seems to you to be serious. We believe that this is a progress on the subject. To close, I would like to say that we all have history in relation to the functioning of justice. All parties. We have the honour, in the past, to have the reformer really of justice in terms of its infrastructure, the late Georgios - Alexandros Magakis, with everything he had done, accepting a terrifying war even for the School of Hope and having almost 80% or 90% of the country's building infrastructure in terms of work, bloody many times, of the Ministers of Justice of our governments. Buildings, infrastructures in general, staff, reform of justice. A huge problem has arisen, though. Delays, inefficiency. Because the rapid administration of justice is a part of the administration of justice and it is not just a matter of time. It's a substance of the speed of the award. On the contrary, it is a form of veto, indirect but clear, delay. And because you want to make a historical assessment of your work for three and a half years, I want to inform you, because your partners will know this at the Ministry of Justice, that when we took over in 2009 there were no statistical data even. The laws, which we made, and their applications, - I am referring to Law 3900/2010 and Law 4055/2012 - were a real development, which is also related to the issues of administrative justice. So we have a rational progress. On the subject of the extreme change in the most positive you have put, I told you the reservation Carras, that this was achieved and the number is impressive, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u249	Where does this thing come from, Mr. Loverdos? Is that what we want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u250	This is the result of the information given to me by my colleague and the provision I will read to you from the Times of the Government. Article 25(3): ‘The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall also apply to outstanding cases. A second appeal referred to in paragraph 1 or an appeal referred to in paragraph 2 may be brought within sixty days of the publication of the present. Second action cannot be brought if three years have elapsed.’ In this way you reintroduce a right to retrial and reintroduce the matter to its quantitative earlier dimensions. And I asked you: By this provision, resuscitations reduce the dimension of acceleration and how much do they reduce it? A little or much? Don't tell me that no one did. The information we have is that the appeals are being filed improperly again. You are a Minister of Justice and I asked you in that sense when you testify to such an impressive number. We've heard it. We've been troubled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u251	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u252	I wish you were right. There are, however, details of the matter in need of clarification. If you have them, you give them today. If you don't have them, you give them another time. But when we're having a conversation, we're having a conversation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Minister, we're closing in your own position. Three minutes, will you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u254	Three to five minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u255	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u256	Ladies and gentlemen, the last speech of the party's parliamentary representative who tabled the question did not refer, as you understood, to any intervention by the government in justice. And it is gratifying that this debate is closed without even one example, but nonetheless, of what I have heard, a reproach for some of the extremes that have been said. But we now conclude that there has never been an intervention in justice by the government. Secondly, with regard to the question of the first instance, Mr Colleague, I would like to say to you that we do not take up in advance, and without any suffering, positions and opinions expressed by the trade unions, because you must also know that the workers and the judges with whom I have contacted and have discussed a number of points during my visits to the Athens Court of First Instance are in favour of the trifle of the Athens Court of First Instance. It is not a question of seeing which co-chairers want and pursue justice. Is this going to work for the social whole? Absolutely, yeah. That is therefore the first argument. The second, Mr President, is that we are not expressing views on the void, nor are we in any particular mood of stirring up situations without a plan. I would stress - and I would like you to take this into account, and I am available to you - that this strategy, as implemented, is included in a study carried out under the auspices of the European Commission, the SSR, as the most suitable measure for decongestion and the first is the haircut of the Athens Court of First Instance. And it is never possible to put in the same balance the need for mergers where the need for divisions is to take place. There are no ‘concentrations or breakdowns’ in confrontation. Where each has to be done, it will be done. And where there needs to be restructuring, and that is where it will be done. You know the example of the two Courts of Appeals, Nafplio and Kalamata. Under the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal of the Nafplio is the Law of Korinthias, Argolis, Arcadias Law and Laconia Law by the Court of First Instance of Gythia and the Court of Appeal of Kalamata, Messinias Law and the Court of First Instance of Gythmnasium. Tell me that's a rational distribution? I shall, of course, have a debate on this matter with the lawyers and the chiefs of the courts. As regards, however, the question of the Athens Court of First Instance, Mr. Colleague, this first issue was announced by the Government in February 2017 and on this matter I had a brief discussion with the former President of the Bar Association, who told me "We will see it, we will look at it, etc.". In an announcement a year and a half ago, the President of the Athens Bar Association responded fiercely. You did tell me I'm the one that's insulting him. I've never been treated as inappropriate to anyone, even when he says ridiculous. For no one. I hear all the opinions. I haven't done that for anyone. You're telling me that we shouldn't finally move forward and that you're going to be across the street? Let me remind you, then, Mr. Colleague, that you are against when the government legislated to leave the consensual divorces from the courts. Do you remember that? To the contrary, you were your party. And today the government is vindicated and vindicated by the lawyers themselves, who understand that it was a positive measure, both to speed up the procedure, but also to the role of the lawyer themselves. I would therefore like to tell you without any controversy - and I am telling you sincerely - that we must all see this with a positive attitude and with a view to further speeding up justice. That is what the studies say, that it is a means to get to this point and to serve the citizen and those involved in the administration of justice. This delay, Mr Loverde, has, since 1981, created the largest court in Europe, for which you are asking the persons involved and the managers, the workers, under what conditions they are working, ask the judges what the material they face and the difficulty in managing and administering them. All this will take place in an open and democratic dialogue. All views will be heard. However, I do not think that beforehand we should be costing behind perceptions, which are moving within the arbitrary framework, which also contains evidence of psalmology. Because it is not possible to do what you see today, and you too, the effort made by the government, for the first time, to implement new technologies in justice, today that, for the first time in a decade, we have been serving the courts with the new staff assigned. In fact, I have taken the initiative to place the successful ones and we have already entered into a contract of private work for an indefinite duration until the AACC lists are permanently posted, so that they can be placed quickly. We've covered over 85% of the empty organic positions we found. For the judges, the gaps that exist are minimal. We've done this within three years. There had been an attempt by the previous government to get the judges' organic loopholes, and today we are at a good first level. We're not saying we did it all, but we need to do brave political areas. We must not stay in the old because all the effort will collapse and everything that we have achieved with effort and great pressure will be lost. In conclusion, I would like to say that we will listen to all the views and information we have put to the judgment of everyone in an open dialogue. And I think that the legal world will benefit from these initiatives. It's already coming out and it's already recognized. With regard to what I said to you, it is true from the day before yesterday that the electronic document is lodged with the administrative courts, and this is primarily for the benefit of lawyers who had to travel from the islands to the office of Piraeus in order to lodge an application, and this is now being done by their office. That's how we'll proceed, with cross-sectional decisions and brave decisions. And I hope that referendums that some want to organise and implement will not have the fate of Christ's referendum. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u257	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u258	Mr. Loverdo, the process is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u259	I would like to speak for just a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u260	All right, I'll give you a minute, but if the Minister wants to answer that, too, I'll have to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u261	It's not a bad thing, it's a timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u262	Before I give you the floor, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, forty-three students and students and six teachers - their attendants from the 1st Municipal Lekanes of Ilias and from the 1st Municipal Advertising Florinas. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u263	It was unfortunate that the Minister was closing down, with which he assessed my second-guess, saying that I agree that there are no interventions. It is unfortunate that what he found to say is that all the questions and the first speeches of all of us stood at the interventions made in justice, the independent authorities that I added in my dentistry, and I referred to the end and the conflict with the legal association. This is where I have an explanation. The Bar Association is not a trade union. The legal association is a legal person governed by public law and if you see its statute and then its founding law, as are chambers, they are advisors to governments. The Ministers must consult them and must form - both sides must form this - a relationship of opportunity for discussion, cooperation and consultation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So don't tell me I'm counting behind trade unionists. Others should see these for themselves perhaps in the old years. Now they're hitting the union, they used to like it. The legal association, however, is not what you are talking about. We, as a parliamentary group, must listen to what it says. And on this subject, second unfortunate moment, we have not said that you have by definition been wrong, that you are convicted and that what you are doing is wicked or anything. We said they needed rational arguments. And when we say rational arguments, we don't say the titles of arguments. I let aside that the Change Movement has come out of communication and is attacking you. Where we are going to have a parliamentary dialogue and you will bring a draft law - when you bring it, or if you want to come to the committee earlier, you can come - you must bring arguments. By definition, the argument of improving the conditions for the award of justice, as is apparent from the division of the Court of First Instance, does not arise. Because I told you in my denture, you might break something, divide it by three, but there is a need for money for buildings, infrastructure, there is a need for staff. When you are being recorded by staff, court and administrative deficits at the Athens Court, why does division by three lead to accelerating? The title, Mr President, on all matters, makes no sense to content. Before the contents begin to be recorded. Title without content equal to demagogy. So we also need to see in terms of rationality, I repeat, this three, how it leads to service and acceleration. Does it lead to a division of the problem by three, and will we have three separate problems more difficult than the previous one? Because without personal resources and without money nothing can be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor, Mr Stavros Kontonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. I still believe that there is no doubt that there is no intervention in the judiciary of the Greek judges by the Government. It may be complained about for other reasons, but there is no intervention. On the second point, I fully agree that there is a need for arguments here and the announcement issued by your party is found by populism and aggression without any basis. I told you, Mr President, that there is a study by the European Commission on this matter from technical assistance which was assigned to the Ministry of Justice. We don't go either into the void or in the dark. For what you said, however, you are right and we are aware of it, that, in order to proceed with the implementation - because we are now on the basis of the planning - of this planning, we must have the logistics infrastructure and staffing. I absolutely agree that nothing can work in the vacuum. So we both accept and admit that, at this time, in terms of staffing at the level of judges, the courts are at the best level of the last decade? You can't deny that. We also agree that efforts have been made over the last two years to staff the administrative, workers', and we now have staff? And I'm telling you again that over 85% of empty organic positions will be covered by the three AACC contests that have been completed. And I told you what method the successors are heading for their positions as quickly as possible. So if we accept this, then the objections that are heard that things are not so good, should be put to a second fate. Because we will be judged on the situation we have received and on the situation we have now built. That is the criterion of the success or failure of a government and a ministry. So if we agree on that, then we can go further. And you can be sure that, when the time comes for the debate, all these elements, not in titles, but in content, will be put to the judgement of the Members and that is where we will also hear opinions from the Members, but also from the institutions. We don't exclude anyone. But, Mr President, we cannot hold on to a strategy that has been necessary for thirty years, because some have had their reasons. And I don't want to say anything more right now. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate on Question No 18/12/2018 is closed, on the subject of "Symbolically undermining justice by the Government and an orderly control and manipulation operation". Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-01-S1-commons.u267	With the consent of the House at 15.17 p.m. the sitting for the next Monday, June 4, 2018, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
