ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the supplementary SPECIFIC ORGANIZATION Parliament decisions: debate and vote, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, of the motions for resolutions: (a) 'To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II (Financial Affairs 51 A'/10.4.1997) and Part Parliamentary (Financial Affairs 106 A'/24.6.1987), as applicable'. (b) 'Amendment of the Chamber of Deputies at its meeting on 15.12.1994 Decision of the Plenary Assembly (FOB 234 A/27.12.1994), as in force, 'for the lease by Parliament of a similar number of rooms for the residence of the deprived owner or leased dwellings in the area of the former Headquarters of Capital, MPs of the province'. The rapporteurs and the special speakers will be given the floor for ten minutes and the parliamentary representatives, if they wish, will be given the floor for ten minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, because there has been an extensive debate in the committee, I would like to see that we have as limited an intervention as possible so that we can finish it quickly. Thank you very much. The majority rapporteur, Mrs Panayota Kozoboli, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first meeting of this Parliament, the declared position of the President of Parliament, unanimously adopted by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, was that changes and interventions should be made to both of the Rules of Procedure - and that of Parliament's staff, the services of Parliament, the management of human resources and the other part of Parliament - that Parliament's Rules of Procedure should be updated and updated, so that Parliament's Rules of Procedure can be updated. There have been many interventions so far. The Parliamentary Party has already been printed and the Second Part is also systemized. In the spirit that I mentioned earlier, today’s provisions are twenty - nine articles, about, concerning both Part One and Part II. Before making a very brief presentation of the provisions that are being regulated today, I would like to stress the positive contribution made by the professor of the Scientific Committee, Mrs Mavria, the Secretaries, the General and Special Representative, the Services of the Parliament, but also the Association of Officials of the Parliament who have not only had any requests, because they contain issues and they have also made proposals and so have a productive dialogue, which has a good result. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall make a very brief presentation of these legislation: I would like to tell you that Article 1 arranges for a period of time. The plan of intervention to be taken at Parliament's day-care station is being launched in order to adapt the authorisation of the station to the current legislative framework. Article 2 proposes that the Digital Certificates Management Office be placed under the Directorate-General for Economic and Administrative Support of the House, because it has only one official and there is no reason to have an independent department. Article 3 allows the Press and Parliamentary Information Office to publish a periodical with a view to the promotion of the work and activities of the House. Article 4 proposes that the Directorate of Television and Radio Station be run by a coordinator as in practice, and that Article 21 provides for an organizational programme for Parliament's channel. Under Rule 5, ladies and gentlemen, the number of Members of Parliament present at the offices of the Presidents of Parliament and proposed - instead of the so-called'reasonable number', which was sometimes interpreted and misinterpreted, but completely subjectively, - does not exceed 20 for the offices of the President of the first and second in a row of Parliamentary Groups, the ten for the third in a row of a Parliamentary Group, and for the office of the President of the other groups, the number of these officials does not exceed five. Here I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that another view has been put forward in the committee during the debate - I shall not say another thing, but another one simply - which said to freeze the current situation, to remain as it stands. I think it is right that there should be no ambiguity within the provisions which might be misinterpreted. And in the words'reasonable number' I think it can be abused, it can be misinterpreted too many times. I would also like to say that the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - and I will say a personal experience - has seven officials and works well. The second in force in Parliament has twenty-nine employees and I think there should be a modernisation. I don't think this situation can be consolidated as it is. Article 6 proposes, by means of a specific procedure and subject to conditions, the possibility of seconding officials of the Parliament to public services outside Attica in order to assist with a spouse or a civil servant. Article 7 proposes an interpretative provision in order to fill a gap in law in the case of crises in the selection of heads. Articles 8, 9 and 16 expressly state that the European and other Appropriations Office may finance projects, services, supplies and studies of the Parliament, while the special account managed by the European and other Appropriations Office is also required for the financing of projects of Parliament. With Rule 10, ladies and gentlemen, a consistent request from the Association of Officials of the Parliament, namely the final clearance of the Fund of Officials of the Parliament, the TAF. So far there has been a temporary liquidation, history is pending and I think that this request is settled and settled after a while. Article 11 adds to Rule 108 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure in Part II the possibility of entrusting and providing services other than the performance of projects and studies which we have had today, i.e. providing services on a proposal from a competent authority and up to EUR 90,000. This amount has existed, but it is now clear that this amount relates to the annual expenditure in question, i.e. it is for one year. Article 14 states that for each contract on behalf of the House of a value greater than EUR 5,000, the whole procedure is surrounded by the type of contract in question. Article 15 provides clarifications for the development of the electronic procurement system of the Parliament. Article 18 regulates an empty law on the personal differences between civil servants. Rule 22 regulates a special category of workers in the House. It's the charge of special guards. They're sixty-eight workers right now. There was an ambiguity in their working relationships. A committee is currently set up under the proposed provisions, which, according to the qualifications of these workers, will rank them in specific services, but which are obliged to remain for at least five years. Rule 23 provides for a consistent request from the Association of Officials of the Parliament. This is the Solidarity Account for Officials of the Parliament, the well-known LEIB. It's changing the way the fund is run. He is commanded by a service of the House. The rights and obligations laid down in the Rules of Procedure - they are all listed - are extended to cover the financing, benefits, grants granted to officials and the monthly contribution of members to all their salaries, so that this account, the fund can meet its objectives. Article 24 deletes a provision introduced in 1991, which provided for additional compensation to Members in the Chamber of Discontinuation of the Chamber of Deputies under Article 71 of the Constitution. Article 25 sets out a legal shield for the Legal Service of the Parliament, similar to that for the Citizens' Counselor and other legal services, in order to express his opinion, a freedom to express an opinion. Article 26 stipulates how the Greek Parliament will deliver an opinion on draft legislative acts of the European Union. Rule 27 reads as members of the Conference of Presidents with members of the other parliamentary committees. Finally, Article 28 lays down rules and lays down rules for the operation of the Foundation. And here there was a great ambiguity. There's a regularity. I would like to tell you that the committees, the Scientific Committee, have come to an end, and in general what has emerged in an absolute dialogue with the General Accounting Office of the State and the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Kozobol. The President, Mr Tragakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. My long presence in Parliament gives me the right to make a few myths clear. First of all, I will deal with the staff of this House. I would like to inform everyone that the staff of this House, from the experience we have all experienced from some other services, is the best that exists. I mean it, and I mean it. And what do I mean by that? Why is that so? Because the House is the first to impose the assessment. Of all the public sector, the House is the first to impose the assessment. In other words, all Parliament's promotions and placements are made on evaluation criteria. This is the first myth I wanted to break up. The second myth relates to the number of servants in the House. Here you will allow me to make a comment. The establishment plan of the Parliament provides for a much larger number of officials in Parliament than is now in existence. Several additions have been made at times, but many employees have retired. The third myth that I want to dismantle is about where Members came from. As much is heard, much is written and much is said, and because I was President of the Commission about where you had been for a number of years, I would like to say that control over Members' assets is not done by Members, as is badly written. It is made by a joint committee involving judges from the highest courts in the country, selected by a draw, and entrusted to auditors - who control the entire public sector and all private bodies - who decide on the property of the MPs. And not just that. The property of the Members of Parliament is posted annually. If we go back to other government agencies, we'll see that most of these agencies are sampled. Example - I will not say where - for over seven thousand thousand thirty presenting things, the sample check was for forty-five. Hold that number. I am now going to address our main issue, which is the proposed revision of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The parliamentary part, the first part of the House's Rules of Procedure, is the one governing Parliament's rules of procedure. The second part shall cover the functioning of the Parliament with regard to staff and services. This amendment we are now making, this revision of the Rules of Procedure, mainly concerns the second part, namely the services of the House. It has been thoroughly monitored in committee and a great debate has been held on all the articles. Some unforeseen corrections have been made, but we have seen from the debate that this had to be done. There are some questions. So I'll say a few things by taking one - one articles. As far as the kindergarten service is concerned, and kindergarten is a problem that has been affecting us from too old, because it has been working without permission. We tried at times. We did some committees. This three-member committee is now set up, as provided for in Article 1. Her decision will be subject to authorisation. Therefore, this will be the authorisation for kindergarten and kindergarten. In Rule 2 there was an observation that was accepted and I thank you, Mr President. At first, economic and administrative services were provided for in the Directorate-General. The Committee of Informatics and Library has finally remained. In Article 3 is the publication of our magazine. At times we tried to do a magazine. I want to do a parentheses here. The printing house of the House is one of the best that works. There was a magazine that came out and which was private. This private magazine has ceased to work because it has asked for other things. I fully agree with the decision not to renew the contract to issue this magazine and to issue its own magazine. We can do this because we have the proper staff. The point I made, as far as the objective criteria were concerned, remains for external partners. I think she should be clarified, too. Article 4 concerns the kind of nursery school in Parliament. I have comments and objections here. The station was planned by the previous revision of our Rules of Procedure to be run by a five-member board. This has never worked, of course, for it has not been established. It worked only faces from the so-called coordinator. With this addition and the review we now have, the coordinator remains. My remark lies in the length of the coordinator. The coordinator has about two years if I'm not wrong. Therefore, the further extension by three years of his term of office seems to me to be excessive. I therefore propose that this term should be reduced to two years, because during the three years I consider it to be a great deal. In Article 5, I shall disagree with the rapporteur because this is the case. The New Democracy was lucky to have in its parliamentary group two former Prime Ministers and four former Presidents of the Parliament. So this whole accumulation is what you said about New Democracy. We have asked for this regulation to apply from the new period and not from 1-1-2019. It wasn't accepted. I will insist, however, that it apply from the next period, not from 1 to 2019. As far as Article 6 is concerned, it has been the case in the public sector. It is logical that this House should also be able to work together with couples who have either family problems or health problems. In Rule 7 with regard to the selection of heads, I will repeat once again that the evaluation carried out has been carried out in the House exclusively and has not been completed in any Ministry and any other public service. It's important. I will also make a comment here on 'TRAINING'. We in this House, for several years, have been posting all the actions that are being taken. Everything that is written, everything that is heard is out of reality if we do not refer to the 'DENMARK' because everything is on the 'DENMARK'. They are posted in "GENERAL" all the works that the House does. I will make an observation here and say that the House is doing a lot of work. The House is currently, as you know, building its roof that is a very big and difficult task. I won't say about Maraslio. I won't tell what's been done at the Smoke Station. It was a work of breath for the House and it is an important issue. I would like to say, in a few words, that 'GENERAL' is a very important issue. With regard to Articles 8 and 9 for the European and other Appropriations Special Account of the Parliament, these have always been made by decision of the President. It is therefore well said that these funds are made available by the President's decision. As far as the TAF is concerned, I would also like to pay tribute to the Professor, who really has come up with this and does not leave the slightest bit of questioning for the TAF. The TSYB issue has been very concerned with the employees, but it has also helped them. But there were some legal loose ends, which were like a tomacle broken over the head of the governors of the TAB. This is a final solution, irrevocably and very important. In Article 11, which concerns the EUR 90,000 which, from one year to the next, is an annual limit, I have nothing to add. I don't think something can be done. As far as non-governmental organisations are concerned, we were giving grants to non-governmental organisations and could not take the money, because they automatically had seizures due to debts. Apart from extending to which non-governmental organisations we will be talking about, and which are also listed in the 'DENMARK' - I would stress this - the right now to be incomprehensible. We had given money, if I am not wrong, Mr President, on the 'World Ark' - I do not remember where we had given them money - and they were unable to take them, because they were automatically confiscated, because there were debts. Article 14 speaks of the 2,000 euros that are made 5,000 euros. We agree on electronic contracts. Article 17 concerns joint committees. They are the joint committees for the proclamation and observation of Parliament's work. The House has a competent and well-qualified staff to carry out all these actions, namely the notice and the follow-up of the work. Article 18 is something that applied throughout the whole of the public sector. It is good that this will apply to Parliament as well, and it is good to do so. Article 20 refers to the special partners of the State Budget Office. As you know, the State's Budget Office is independent of Parliament. A lot of people don't know that. However, this may also be the case for Members of the House. It shall put a provision in place to ensure that there are parallel or complete tasks or with a reduced exercise of their main tasks. I think that will help the Bureau of Parliament. As regards the Television and Radio Station, I spoke about the coordinator. I'll say something about the program. If you would notice, our Television Station's programme is in Greece's range - hold this. And not only is it a pan-Hellenic, but we also have a digital platform. What does that mean? It means that we have a clear picture in most parts of Greece. What does that mean? It means that, apart from the fact that people are watching Parliament's meetings, the committees' meetings, we have very good programmes on the subject of information broadcasting. I would say, however, that we should give some more weight to entertainment, that is to say, to check a piece of the station so that it can provide a little more entertainment, despite the fact that the television station's programmes are of quality. On Article 22, on the transfer of special guards, I would like to say that it was a proper request. There's nothing more going on. From special guards, who were for a five-year period and had to renew their mandate under the law, as envisaged, for another five years, we automatically make them unlimited and integrate them into Parliament, with a view to being used in certain areas of the House that are in need. Article 23 refers to LUBB. While there were several objections at first, there have been numerous meetings with the Association of Officials of the Parliament and I think that the gold incision has been somewhere in terms of lending to members of the Parliament's Solidarity Fund. First of all, the possibility of borrowing is given. They can get a loan of up to 2,000 euros. It is their own money, because we do not forget that at the moment LAPI has a reserve of about 2,800,000 from contributions from its members and enters 0,7 now and those from contributions from their members are. Of these, there are some current obligations - there are several - that remain about 1,800,000. They don't ask for anything else. They say that 1.800,000 will be entered into an account and that account will have certain procedures. I will not say about incurable diseases when certain issues are observed. I will say, for example, for reasons of employees' urgency. But on what condition? The employees' contributions annually are about 210,000. The same contribution should be made by the employer, the same contribution that the House must make. Is it 210,000? Here's Parliament's contribution of 210,000. Is it 230,000? Here's the contribution of 230,000. That is my point and I would like to ask that it be accepted. I will now go to the Parliamentary Party, and I would like to say this: we will be given the opportunity to say this - and there is a commitment from the President that we will also have a very big review in October - because we in the Parliamentary Party have some malfunctions which we Members ourselves are living here. We are present every day and see what is not working well. In these cases, then, there are some changes that we will discuss together all the parties, as we do every time in the parliamentary part. I have nothing to say about Article 26. I want to say something about Article 25. In the Scientific Service of the Parliament, we created the Legal Service of the Parliament. The Legal Service of the Parliament, after its creation, had a number of malfunctions and fears, because too many of them were obliged to take, as well as checks carried out by the agency, were at risk of being subject to criminal responsibility. With this provision, as has been clarified, they enjoy all the privileges that, for example, the Citizens’ Counsel has, because such work is almost accomplished. So that's right, too. Now I'm going to say something about the control that exists in the House. As you know, preventive control is abolished from 1-1-2019 across the public. It has already been abolished from 1-1-2018 for certain services. From 1-1-2019, however, it is not repealed in the House. It is important that preventive control exists in the House, except for repressive control. There is, in addition to preventive, control of expenditure. There is control of expenditure from the first euro in Parliament. There is nothing else to do with this provision, and this is being transferred to the Foundation of Parliament, because the Foundation of Parliament, which we know is really doing a huge job - I will not, as an example, only bring the Teenists' House, but so much more - has created those conditions and we say that the expenditure - and that is why the Foundation at times has been written enough - will be subject to preventive and repressive control from the first euro. With regard to the Committee on European Affairs and the article, which has been tabled at the last minute - I can say that it does not matter, it has been 'built' by the services and by the Professor, Mr Mavria - because it concerns subsidiarity, that is, the green and yellow card, and in the European Parliament we are from the last countries, please, now on firm dates - in fact, with tight dates - to check subsidiarity and proportionality. Of course, this will bring great work - but huge work, indeed - to the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. In other words, she almost doubles her work. What does that mean? As the internal drafts come and constitutionality is checked by the Scientific Service of the Parliament, all the directives and drafts from the European Parliament will come and the Scientific Committee of the Parliament will be required to check them on proportionality and subsidiarity. I will conclude by saying this: as you know, with Law 4531/2018, Article 33(2), there are certain arrangements concerning posted officials in the Ministries. In other words, those who are seconded to a ministry, since it has been shown that they are serving well, that they are paid by the body in which they are serving - that is, that is, nothing changes, that is, the same pay is wherever they are - and that some officials seconded to the House have already been incorporated into the House, that my proposal was what is true of the public, that it should apply to Parliament as well. I think I got a little too far. Thank you for your tolerance and patience. I hope that the next review, which is scheduled to be in October, will be a brave review, a review which will, in fact, put a lot of issues in particular concerning parliamentary work in their real dimensions and the experience we have gained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I shall not go far enough or need twice a year, because I believe that discussions have been held and that all parties have been present at the meeting of the relevant Committee on the Rules of Procedure. From the outset we had expressed the wish and asked for the changes to the Rules of Procedure to take place every time after mature debate and, above all, to be consensual. Some of them achieve this goal. Some others, we think they are far enough away from it, which we would think could be a field of common consensus. So, Mr President, I tell you that we will be put to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou. Mr. Christos Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I will be brief for a debate, and I would say, without interest and special impact, that in times of economic tolerance, the Greek people, who, despite all the economic difficulties, lifts up the banner of the national struggles. Especially in the proposal by the President of Parliament to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House, I will first vote in favour of Rule 4 and Rule 21 of the proposal, which we naturally vote against. These articles provide for the individual interventions of an administrative and organisational nature at the TV and radio station of the House. Many people see - and especially after the entry of the Golden Dawn as even more, perhaps it is the only means where Greek citizens can hear and see the talks of the Golden Dawn rivals - the TV station of the Greek Parliament as a media medium which, in essence, is not different from the state media called ERT. In other words, we have a parliament, a channel of Parliament, which is the same as the rest of the ERT1, ERT2, ERT3. With regard to the fact that this channel, the 'democratic' Parliament channel, will come directly to the President of Parliament, we are clearly opposed. At least the appointment of the coordinator of this channel could have been made to the Conference of Presidents, there could have been an overall control body in any case on the channel of this House. We are therefore voting against, as is Rule 21, which deals with the channel of Parliament, and which we are dealing with with all these services, the sectors, the locations of persons on the channel of Parliament. I asked the Conference of Presidents the following: 'How many are these officials, who are employed on the channel of the House?' They say to me “about eighty employees.” Well, let me tell you that too many times it's happened after noon, after two and a half, three o'clock, not on a plenary day, to call the Parliament's channel and nobody picks up. We are dealing with eighty, as I have heard, with officials from Parliament's channel, for example, when EPSILON, for example, brings it as an example, the EPSILON channel, which has a lot of entertainment, I would say, at least for me, it employs two hundred employees and when the 'ART', another channel, employs sixty employees. The channel of the Parliament now employs eighty employees paid by the Greek people to come the President of the Parliament, according to what you want to go through today, as well as to appoint its coordinator. We are clearly opposed. I move on to the other articles because I referred to Article 4 and I referred to 21. As far as the article on the day care service is concerned, we say'residents'. I would say that this is a good development, because at least the nursery station for the children of officials, MPs, etc. to be ‘unlawful’. And in Article 2, which is a regulatory provision, we say 'the present'. For the House magazine. We will say "yes" on the basis of the following: Scandals so far the activities of Members, articles, etc., were subject to a private company, that is to say, a private company was assigned by parliament to issue a monthly journal presenting the events of the Parliament. In Rule 4, which deals with the channel of Parliament, we are 'need to vote'. In Article 5, because a wall is entered, as far as the posters are concerned, we will say'residents'. Article 6 is a sensible regulatory provision and we say 'present' in that too. In Article 7 we say 'the present'. In Article 8 we are 'needs'. It is an article, concerning the European and Other Appropriations Distribution Service, which can finance projects, services, supplies, studies, etc. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: There's a lot of money moving in here. We are 'against'. In Article 9, which deals again with supplies, studies and a large number of things, we say 'percentages'. In Rule 10, which concerns the officials of Parliament, it is a reasonable provision and we are voting in favour. In Article 11, concerning the delegation of Parliament services to other public or private bodies on a fee basis, we are 'percentage'. In Article 12 for the prevention of expenditure by posting transparency, etc. We call 'the present'. Article 13 is an article which refers to the privileged treatment of entities which affect Parliament's work and have tax or insurance liabilities. We are voting 'v.'. In Article 14 there is an increase in the financial limit - to hear this - from EUR 2 000 to EUR 5 000 which requires a written agreement. Of course we are voting against this. For the time economy, Mr President, I will be briefer. In Article 15, we are voting 'at present'. In Article 16, we are voting 'v.'. In Article 17, too, we are 'against'. Why is this House? Is there anything beyond the public eye? The House - I would say - is the epitome of publicity. That's how the House should normally be. So we are 'against'. In Rule 18, which deals with some payroll from the officials of the House - we are in'residents'. In Article 19, we are voting 'at present'. In Article 20, we are voting 'at present'. In Rule 21 I referred to the beginning. It's a lot of organic positions of the Parliament's channel. We are 'against'. Rule 22 concerns the issues of the special guards employed in the Parliament. It's a reasonable request from Parliament's guards. We are in 'yes'. In Article 23, we are voting 'at present'. In Rule 24 we are positive, because there was this scandalous provision in Parliament's Rules of Procedure, that Members in the Summer Section will have additional remuneration. And of course we cannot be in favour of this. And in general, our movement, from the first moment it entered the Greek Parliament, since 2012, has contributed to limiting the privileges - any restriction that has been made so far - of the MPs and we are consistent with our line and we vote 'yes'. In Article 25 we are voting 'yes'. In Article 26 we are voting 'yes'. Rule 27 has an absolute link with what I have just said to you about Members' privileges and that is why we are 'against'. In Article 28, they are operating arrangements of the institution of the Parliament and we are 'near'. Article 29, concerning the entry into force, is a meaningless article and. It doesn't make any sense. We are 'against'. The abolition of a housing allowance, as part of the regulation of some scandalous - I would say - of the prerogatives of the past, is a good thing. We are voting 'yes'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Mr. Athanasios Paphilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u10	I take the floor, above all, to explain why we are voting on a number of 'present' and a 'no' because the majority of the changes made are positive. I'm starting with Article 4. We disagree with the one-faced administration by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Not that we have any illusions from the experience so far that if it is appointed by the respective President - it is not just for the current one - the Council will be somewhat different. More generally, however, a more collective function is better and there could be a debate on this. I'll do it in turn. Secondly, for Article 7, our disagreement lies in the fact that we had disagreed with the process of selecting heads. Article 10 lays down procedural matters for the clearance of the Court of Auditors, the TBR, in order to complete its clearance. We had disagreed with the dissolution of this fund and other funds. Of course, once the decision has been taken and it has to be cleared, it must be launched. However, for reasons of principle - as we did for other funds - we are voting 'at present'. Otherwise, we would vote against, if we did not understand the need for this liquidation to go ahead, which the workers know, and we have discussed with the administration of the union, and we have explained why. We will also be voting on Article 21, which deals with the channel of Parliament, with similar considerations as before. I want to say a few words - and this is important in general policy - for Article 26. What does Article 26 provide for? It provides that draft legislative acts of the European Union come to the Ministries, of course, and come to the Committee on European Affairs. The new one is that, if requested by one third, or if the President of Parliament decides, they can come to Parliament and have a debate. We have no disagreement on that. What we want to say is that it is a great mockery against all the peoples of Europe. These were institutionalised - at least at the time I had a direct understanding, because I was in the European Parliament - to make fun of the people of Europe that even the parliaments have the opportunity to change the draft laws of the European Union. What has been proven, and it is no longer because we say it, is that here they wrote in their old shoes the referendums that have been held in the past. Here they had to make second referendums to agree on European Union issues. The same happens here, because these are not binding. Even though - I say in theory - there cannot be any, of course - all national parliaments say 'no', it does not commit any European institutions to implement them. We do not vote 'in that it will be possible, when there is one, for the Greek people to be even more informed than for them to pass without this debate. However, we also want to make it clear to those who see us, if they see us - and I doubt they see us in the Rules of Procedure - but, more generally, to record this position, because it is of particular importance. Finally, we are also voting for Article 28, the last article on the Foundation for Parliamentary Affairs and Democracy, from the point of view of having disagreed on the establishment of the Foundation. When he was formed, we said we didn't need to. Anyway, we have and we have had many reservations about a series of actions and about what and how it is projected. Of course, we are taking part in the committee, we are making a number of proposals, but in general, because of this perception, we are voting 'at present'. The rest is no reason for me to explain and eat time. Besides, we'll vote electronically.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Because there is a lot of noise, I believe that there is a lot of unfair noise about the privileges of those working in this House, including Members, and I would like to say this: the House is the cornerstone. I believe that it puts the last stone in the Parliamentary Republic, and we should all be very careful about what picture we give, first the MPs and then, of course, the officials of this Parliament. I tell you first of all, therefore, that we ourselves Members who are on committees that take a year, such as the Health Review, have asked that we do not have any remuneration in these committees. Also, they have been greatly reduced - it has nothing to do with this bill, but it is very important, because it is the image of the House - generally pay. We heard that "you're getting ten, fifteen thousand" and something like that. First of all, I want to inform you, because it is a unique opportunity for society that the Members' salary is around five grand, at least so much I get, about five thousand to five thousand two hundred. The province's MPs have a privilege because they travel and it makes sense. Because I hear some figures that have nothing to do with reality, that you "take ten thousand" and that. It's not true. As far as this bill is concerned, I would like to say first of all: I belong to the Members' group - forgive me, I will bless my beards, but it is very important - that I do not like waste. As far as my potential is concerned, I do not want to burden the Greek society with my personal expenses, so I am confined to having only two employees, who need the bills. I have no posters - it does not mean that some do not need them - I do not have police officers, I do not want to have a car, I do not even have a profession, and I think this spirit of austerity should dominate - and dominate - the proposals of the President of this House. I say this because - with all love and respect - last night some people here in the House - and I have to say it - have been late together. I was the rapporteur, everyone left - I know - two hours ago and we had to vote, sign at the end. Some employees are up late - for God's sake! - and we have to be very careful about how we deal with the officials of this House. In Rule 5 - and with all due respect for the officials of this House - I think it is probably right. No employee who is above is fired, just the agency is making good use of it at a point in need. When I was a doctor, I in a public hospital, that's what we did. I don't think it's so great anymore if a president's office instead of being fifteen employees is ten, and the other five need someplace, they need those employees who were here last night and we stayed together and my soul was sad. In general - and I am ending here - we are the ones who need to be here in the Greek Parliament - and I put together all the workers and the Members - to set an example at a time when the Greek society is being beaten. We know very well that he is having a bad time and the word 'private' is disturbing. I think that this proposal of the bill is moving in this direction, and I personally see it correctly and will be voting in favour of it. Thank you, for now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Then it's my turn to take the floor. You'll allow me, if there's no objection to a colleague's position here, not to come down from the Chair, to the president go up, not to make this...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u14	It's approved.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u15	I and as a member of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure I have already come to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and made all the comments I think I had to make and I was positive. I think this proposal will resolve outstanding issues and issues that have emerged in this sense, and I repeat, from here, in electronic voting, that my vote will be demonstrated, which is positive. Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make two - three points with regard to the officials of this House. I've been taken too many times for them, because they're here to be able to help us. Many of you I saw next to me and yesterday and until late at night and again this morning you are here, so I will continue to support you as I always do. As far as the Professor is concerned and the work that has been done in this new improved proposal, which came for the Rules of Procedure of the House, we, as the Central Association, are also grateful and thank you very much for your support for the services. One point, which I had put to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, is that the problem should be resolved with regard to the Vice-Presidents of the House so that we do not meet what they had. I imagine that the services have not yet been able to bring them - I am referring to the last incident - so I think that the next opportunity with the Rules of Procedure of the House will be here. I would like to say a few things about Article 5. For my part, I would like to say that I understand the aspect of Officerial Opposition and the other parties with more needs - and they are right, they have not exceeded the number so far - and I understand that they have some programming, but I do not think that the two, three, five months difference will cause them so many problems, as the President of the Rules of Procedure has said, has spoken lastly and I have supported the coming to the next parliamentary term. We don't know when this will be. Could be October. If it is October, if we have elections and it is the next parliamentary term, it will come earlier than 1-1-2019 that you have proposed. It may be in May, it may be next year in October, it has nothing to do with it. I think that by the end of the year we have about six months so that these problems can be solved. However, the most important of all, for which we will support the whole proposal put forward by the President and for this article, is that we, as the Central Association, cannot call out and say that the public must be rationalised, that the services in general should be rationalised and that people work at the right level, that we ask for the number of Members to be reduced, and that when a regulation is in this direction, we, as the Central Association, should not support it. It is the most important reason we are saying 'yes' and Article 5 and we support the proposal made by the President of Parliament. More generally, we believe that all the changes that are coming through the Rules of Procedure are in the right direction, and that is why we, as the Central Association, will be voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. The President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, this debate always gives room for some more general issues of our journey within the House, and I will use this year's course, as the President, Mr Tragakis, has done, and I will go straight to the point. Firstly, I think it is really very important - and this has been stressed - that the House, which in the past followed other procedures for the appointments of directors, directors, heads, etc., as well as for the rest of the public, has, for a year now, gone through very important pioneering procedures, evaluation and specific procedures, with which these appointments are carried out, recruitments, etc. It's a very important thing. Because in this Chamber we speak politically and do well, it is not a procedural debate, it is not a point of view in the future, there is no exception, even the one to which I belong, to do these things differently. Not to think about it, because I have heard in the public space, in the public speech, in the public debate, with various pretexts, is to say about this effort that is being done, which is really intermittent and also under the pressure of the situations that have been found in the country - unfortunately, we had to get there, in order to go to the self-evident, public and civil servants, etc. - that this will change if another situation comes and we will return to the holy precedent. It will be a huge mistake, it will be a blow to democracy, it will be a blow to the officials here in the House. From this regime, I think we should finally leave. Secondly, I believe that, with correct steps, what we have said from the outset in relation to the consultation that is being held on the Rules of Procedure is going on. You remember the situation. There were many regulations, in addition to the Rules of Procedure, special regulations on services etc., which were not discussed in the plenary of the House, or even some of the corrections made in the General Rules and in Part I and Part II, were made very quickly, very quickly, most of the time without any consultation of the parties or the Association of Officials of the Parliament and, in any case, without any detailed discussion as is now being done. We're out of this age. I repeat, we all left together. It is not just the work of the present administration of Parliament or the majority, but we have all left together in this situation and have gone to a situation where the Rules of Procedure have now gathered into a corpus. It is all known and accessible and accessible to everyone, as are the proposals for revisions and continuous modernisations, because it is a living case. The Rules of Procedure of the House are not an unmovable thing, as they are in other services for the proper functioning of the House. We understand that. It must be continuously aligned with the pulse of events, the pulse of needs, the pulse of situations that are formed. In this respect, I believe that we have all put a footprint too positive. I would like to congratulate my soul and my colleagues and Parliament's Scientific Service, Mr Mavria, but also other colleagues from there. I would particularly like to stress Mr Dimitris Kanellopoulou. But I would also like to thank other colleagues and also the association for their positive contribution to this process, which now lasts for three years. We're going slowly and we're shaping it. I do not want to forget - and I say this to be written in the Minutes - that there is a commitment that after we close the whole of the Rules of Procedure, then there will also be a linguistic diligence - the other diligence, that is, no duplication, etc., that the committee has made it under the professor's authority - to harmonise our speech, in respect of sexes, in respect of women's and men's sex. In other words, the whole Rules of Procedure will be written to reflect the modern requirements and to overcome a rhetoric, which many times, in the House and not only, has escaped and is, to say, one-dimensional. But we'll see when the time comes. However, such harmonisation will take place. We have made a commitment on this. Thirdly, I think it is very important that we close some serious loose ends - we emphasised earlier - TAYV, LABV, etc. This closure is done by consensus, in an effort on a number of issues relating to mutual funds and all this process, now to align them with the modern situation, the modern legislative framework, the wider one, and at the same time to leave the risk of responsibility people who have been hostage to a process for years. I think it's a good process. I come to an issue, which I consider to be important. These are the issues that the President put in as an incident. I fully agree with you that you have put them in public. Because a new legislative framework is being prepared for where you stand, which we must discuss and which may have more rages or inconsistencies and contradictions, such as those you have put forward. You did well to put it in public. I now come to speak on the matter of the officials of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not accept the attacks that are being made - and I will be very specific - towards the officials of this House. First of all, I consider it personally incomprehensible, because Parliament has been brought before justice by four former officials, directors, and so on. of the House - they have every right, they do not go there unthinkable - to give in to their self-evident presence in the institutions which make the judgments. They have every right - I repeat for the second time - to appeal to the administrative courts for the crises that are taking place. That's unfair. Because it is, I repeat, a self-evident participation in this House and we must not go behind it. In other words, there is a call for participation as a reason for the nullity of the procedure. And I say it in public. But above all, I do not accept a periphery of populist literature - and Mr Tragakis referred to this - which makes it difficult for all of us and raises the main issue: in the House there are too many people who do not need and who do not need and who do not work and who are growing up and who obviously have the same share of the responsibility for them, because, in essence, some of them, are moving into the grey zone of unpaid wages. This is a very serious injustice. I want to be very specific. No one left these three and a half years as an employee of the House. There were needs for so many and more employees in this House. And there are still needs - you have also referred to the establishment plan - not only because we have not completed the establishment plan, but because the Parliament has - I will not quantify it very much - has increased its activity, not only in its own parliamentary, legislative work - it has also been this very critical five-year, eight-year, we have all experienced this - but above all, in connection with its contact with society, with the modern electronic governance instruments, with the activities of the Foundation, with a series of contractors, which are already going on - or are going through - and which require specialised capacity, with the establishment of a legal agency, with the establishment of a section on archives. The House did not have such a section as it did not have a reserve. He had nothing. He didn't even have a real estate register. There were no these files, ladies and gentlemen. So I could tell you in detail that even if there were gray areas - the slow pay was heavy that I said before - the lack of a part of the power of this House was not, of course, to blame at all, not one of Parliament's officials. First, in twelve years their number had doubled. Secondly, in fact, it was the result of a very clear customer culture of recruitment. I say this in parentheses, to say that even if there were any such areas of work, through policy, which we have done to develop the work of Parliament in all these areas - to modernise the services etc. - Right now, not all of us are just working, the ladies and gentlemen who are in this House, but they are not even away from the staff. I was also committed last year - and I say this year in public - that everyone - in this case, I think, is 17 - that those provided for by the legislation with one to four in the previous three years - who counted in this House for permanent officials - will be recruited for specific activities and areas of Parliament's work. And that's our codecision. Why am I saying that? Because it is not possible to give an impression that officials here are added in the context of any conception - a party, a non-party state, etc. - and form controversy and controversy and a populist public speech which affects us and the officials of this House themselves. For example, it is not possible to see that there are fewer now than before. And for the channel, I say, on the occasion of what Mr Pappas said, this. You have all understood - and no political power, beyond the Golden Dawn, for certain reasons have been objected - that qualitatively, technologically, program, emissions, contact with the world, has doubled and tripled its range, in addition to the correct coverage of the long-term processes in here, which is its main function. More needs to be done there, too. I want to be challenging for a few things and I fully accept the political responsibility for what I am saying. And I'm telling you, we can tell you about a one-off service. So what's going on? Because, for reasons of political decision here, sixty-two ladies and gentlemen, cleaners and cleaners, the same ones who worked in the workshops of the contractors and who are not counted on the officials of the House, have now passed the House through a normal procedure, we are publicly, meticulously, systematically, a criticism that: 'They were so many. They received so many and are an additional hundred or twenty", of which I am telling you, that the first dose, about sixty, is the cleaners and cleaners that were through workshops. It is only enough today to see site and newspapers full pages. I fully respect journalists and the way they work, and that is why I am very careful, and I mean what I'm saying. I take back the proposal which is being made in my name today in the House in relation to the special guards. I ask that this treatment be frozen. I am absolutely committed to this issue because it concerns people and families. We will resolve this at the next part-session of this House, namely the forthcoming revision of the Rules of Procedure, because I am not prepared, because it concerns sixty-eight Members of this House who will be directly counted after today's vote on the staff of this House. Perhaps within all summers they will say that on July 14 other sixty-eight "reds" of Voutsi entered the House and I cannot go on the road, not for the Macedonian or for the others. Come see, I'm a lot more comfortable than a lot of people around here, all over Greece. Don't give up on that. But I get caught by people who reasonably want his child to have such a fortune, as it is said somewhere today "if you have Buddhism or bars in Koroni, you enter the House tomorrow". How can I now have this pressure and apologise to anyone? I'm talking privately. Or how can the House have this, that sixty-eight were gathered yesterday because they were their own children? I know you know that everyone has nothing to do with it - and that's why we're not looking for party identities in here - these special guards with our party and they're doing well or they're still not sure why we didn't ask them. But this is how it goes towards society. So at about a hundred and twenty cleaners, which, I repeat, were given in the mass media yesterday, another sixty-eight will be added tomorrow and we will have to apologise. It is unacceptable, when the plenary too must know that this House was created by a former President of this House. I honor all former Presidents of Parliament. You realize I've never talked about anyone and nobody in here about their work. What we've received, we've received. It was a lot positive. From there on, everyone is appreciated both for the negative, the concealments or the uncertainty and the failure to resolve matters. I'm not talking about it. But this whole body suddenly came up, as an additional staff by the House, on a night by a former President of Parliament a few years ago, and now we are coming - and we are doing well - and we are obliged to do so, I tell you that I promise we will do so - to settle this matter. Let's not go out there beaten. There must be an update on these issues so that we do not have that kind of problem. There are also some other kind of harmonisations that we should make towards the common sense. We have also mentioned the issue we have said about the rent for Members, and so on, which is to be decided. Let me tell you that it is not possible, precisely because the House is in Athens, in addition to the right aid given to all parliamentarians in the region, who do not have a home in Athens in order to be able to do their job here, to have a parallel status as it existed so far. Rightly there was. However, this will have to be stopped from the new period, not from the new summit, because precisely some colleagues have contracts, etc. But we'll stop them. We'll make the decision now. I mean a regime of offices of politicians or other facilities in their regions and, indeed, with the twenty-four km clause, if it is from the head office of the county or anything else. This is what you realise, first of all, that it was shaped by a full regime of inequality between all the Members, I mean the region, because others used it, others did not use it, etc. That is not the right thing to do, and we should first be able to make it happen. As I also commit that at this last part-session we will see absolutely - the elements we have and all we have, and when I say we will see, I mean to decide - the whole status of safeguarding the former Presidents of Parliament, the Heads of Parliament, the Prime Ministers and all the very worthy people, who have left their print here and who are now living and producing political work and public activity and who each have a certain number of them bound by the country's police force. It is a good thing that we are talking about lawlessness and a number of other things, but it must also concern us and whatever disparity there is at that level too. There is also a number of other issues. Let me also come to Article 5, in which there are objections, from what I understand, to the officials of the House in the parties, the parties' secretaries, etc. Obviously, we are not talking about this. There's no question. And that is something I want to clarify. As the President said, we are not talking about those who are seconded because there is also a special status for Vice-Presidents, the Presidents of the parties, the heads of the parties. In other words, they are beyond that figure. The twenty-nine for the New Democracy, the sixteen for the PASOK, the eight for SYRIZA, the others for the other parties are beyond those who are seconded to the other "officials" of the Parliament. That's why we're coming to streamline this thing for now and for the future. The first two parties, the Civic Opposition and the ruling party, because they have their rapporteurs, have a heavy presence within the House, will have an equal number of officials from the Parliament to a sufficient number, 20, for the third party 10 and for the other parties by five officials. There are parties such as the JRC, for example, who have not used any of the great opportunities that the House itself has provided for there to be a staffing service. The ruling party today, too, has three and a half years since eight, who had precedents. So I would ask you very much on this very reasonable point and on the one hand that there should not continue to be any objections. I am sorry, because I have longed and I am going to end - but I think some things should be clarified. Ladies and gentlemen, a job is being done by all of us, so that the House in these very difficult years, which, for the vast majority of the Greek people, imagined - as a predisposition - as a mausoleum and at the same time as an area where fundamentally anti-social decisions were taken, to have a communication alive, creative, zoonic, trust in society. That's what this is about. Do these two stand out? Oh, no. But there are also an impression in the hundreds of twenty thousand people, for example, who visited the exhibition "Kapodistis" - which now went to Nafplion, has gone to Corfu - to the forty libraries that are blooded by the Library of the Parliament with the network, in the multitude of publications, events, exhibitions, grants, issues relating to the reconstructing of historical memory throughout Greece, throughout the region. It is dramatically reduced by a positive sign - and fortunately - in favour of the political system, with a sign of democracy, this distance between the world and the people from the House. There was, in other words, political thinking - because we are neither experienced in governance nor in general in the things that we have found - for this function of this House, which, as far as I am concerned, I will try to continue on the same agenda at all levels, on all issues, with openness in absolute but also with efficiency, which I believe will be in favour of democracy and a political system that is remodeled ahead of us and the country's exit from the Memorandum of Understanding, in order to deal with our fellow citizens in the years to come, which will be very difficult both for our country and for Europe and our region. I believe there is a very good job, and I would like to thank all the workers and workers here, the Association of the Officials of the Parliament and, of course, the Scientific Committee, the Foundation of the Parliament, all the agencies. From there on, for my most direct colleagues, these thanks can be given in private. We're all judged together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, if you will allow me for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u21	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u22	I would like to say to what the President-in-Office has put forward, because he has developed a rich action of this House, that I think he has failed to say that, however, Parliament's expenditure has been reduced and has been saved about 130 million, if I know well. I think it was a necessary complement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u23	Good. Thank you, Mrs. Kozobol.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u25	Mr. President, would you like something?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u26	I want to say something for just one point. Is Article 22 withdrawing it, Mr President, for the special guards?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u27	Of course, until the next time we bring it the same...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u28	Let us clarify this, Mr President. As you know, according to the legislation that exists, special guards contracts must be renewed for another five years. So you said that by withdrawing this article, we will see it again in October on the same basis as that already exists in Article 22. Because, in fact, you said these special guards entered another time, which wasn't about us...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u29	Another period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u30	Another period. And it was in the duties of armed parliament officers, i.e. armed parliament officials, who could be used, on the basis of their diplomas. Because, by doing an anthropogeography to them, we will find that there are people who can offer too much to certain services in this House. The regulation you made was right. I would therefore like to take your assurance once again that we will see it in October.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u31	Sure. I couldn't agree more. We also have the first paragraph of Article 22, because it is a procedural one, so as not to be removed. The Director-General identified it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u32	Furthermore, the other point I raised, Mr President, on the harmonisation of the law in the public service, as far as posted workers are concerned, is to see this again in October.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u33	We'll see each other again, and we'll add numbers, and we'll get the numbers red.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u34	It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u35	It doesn't matter. I know. Alas. For me personally, unfortunately, it doesn't matter. I'm going over all this. But it's not like that. What can we do now? We'll see. We will see everything, Mr President. We're committed to seeing everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u36	We've both studied positive sciences.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u37	Very positive, indeed, not just positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u38	Many times the numbers don't tell the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Tragakis. So Article 22 remains in the first paragraph, Mr President? Does Article 22 remain in the first paragraph and leaves the second?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u41	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u42	Good. Mr. Pappa, you have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u43	Before you finish the debate and if you spoke to the other parliamentary representatives, I would also like to make two points to the President. I would like to say, first of all, because you mentioned to me that our party, the Golden Dawn, has not been used. I say it because you referred to another party only. Let me also point out that our party has not used it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u44	That's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u45	It's true. Well done. I'm glad you agree. You just missed it and you didn't say it. I don't know why.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u46	That's what the evidence says, and I'm out because it seems to be missing from me when I'm talking. You got it. There's a bias!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u47	Especially as far as we're concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u48	All right, I'll take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u49	Normally there should be no prejudice, because you are the President of the House. You're not President of SYRIZA. I wish you the President of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u50	He escaped, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u51	Two labels. I told her one. I'll call the second one now. You said, referring to what I said about officials and the Channel of the House that you want more officials. In other words, Mr President, you have revealed yourself. Because at first you said you were not managers. You have revealed yourself and told me frankly: Would you say this before January 2015, when you were a mere MP and were you not President of Parliament? For me what you said you want more employees in these times for Parliament's Channel, which, when we call this afternoon, they don't even answer the phone, it's a shame.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u52	Now what can I tell you? Can I talk to you about the channel number? That's where an excellent job is being done. The scope of the channel is excellent both for democracy and for the state. And if more is needed, more will come in. Because that's how it has to be so that it works better. I have said so about all the services and when I took office as President. And engineers also came. More is needed, as well as computers and others in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u54	Too soon to say something just to be heard. I know that the President has not done so in treachery to God! - He just missed him. The Centro Association doesn't have a parliamentary official either. I'm just saying that to hear it. I know, Mr President, that you have not done so with treacherousness in any case.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u55	I did it to you without prejudice!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, will Article 22 be voted on as formulated?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u58	Of course, Mrs Kozobol, only the first paragraph will remain. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure, on the proposal by the President of the Parliament of the Greeks: 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II (Government Gazette 51A'/10.4.1997) and Part Parliamentary (Government Gazette 106 A'/24.6.1987), as applicable'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of their proposal, and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the beginning of the proposal, twenty-eight articles, the hotel article and the whole of the proposal. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest you have to "rol" the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure you have voted for all the articles, the hotel article and the whole. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please contact the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask the parties' representatives not to leave because we are going to vote on an amendment. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u59	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, the positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u61	The proposal therefore: "To amend the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II (VAT 51A'/10.4.1997) and Part Parliamentary (VAT 106 A'/24.6.1987), as in force", was accepted in principle by the articles and by a majority of the votes and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to give its approval to the Bureau for the ratification of the minutes in respect of the vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u63	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the second item on the agenda: 'Amendment to the sitting on 15.12.1994 of the Plenary Assembly (PEP 234 A'/27.12.1994), as in force, 'approximately a similar number of rooms for the residence of the deprived owner or hired resident in the area of the former Poverty Command, province'. Does the House agree with the proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u64	So the House unanimously agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to give its approval to the Bureau for the ratification of the minutes in respect of the vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u66	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also ask the House to empower the Bureau to confirm the minutes of the sittings: PKT's 29-5-2018, PKZ' of 30-5-2018, PKH of 31-5-2018, PKT of 1-6-2018, PLH of 4-6-2018, PLZ of 5-6-2018, PLB of 7-5-2018, PLB of 8-6-2018, PLD of 11-6-2018, PLB of 13-6-2018, PLT of 14-6-2018 (morning of 14-6-2018, PLZ of 14-6-2018, PLB of 15-6-2018, PLM's of 18-6-2018, PM's of 20-6-2018, PMNAF' of 11-67-2018, PMNAF', PM's of 10-7-16-2018, PMZ', PM', PM', PM's of 10-7-16-2018, PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM''', PM', PM', PM', PM'', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM No 2-7-17 2-7-7-17-17-17-17-17-17-18, PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM', PM
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u67	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary session is being completed today. The end of the proceedings of the Third Period of a President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Republic will be declared by the relevant Presidential Decree, which will be published in the Official Journal of the Government and will be tampered with. The First Discontinuation Department of the Parliament will start its work with the Composition of Section 1 of Tuesday 17 July 2018, which will be next Tuesday. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-13-S1-commons.u68	With the consent of the House at 12.23 p.m. the sitting is closed for Tuesday 17 July 2018 at 18.00 p.m., on the subject of the section's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
