ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval 11-6-2018, the PRAD's minutes were confirmed by the Bureau of the PRAD's minutes of Monday, 11 June 2018, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: "Reform of the law of public limited companies".]] We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Provisions for the completion of the Agreement on Financial Objectives and Structural Reforms - Medium-term Financial Strategy 2019-2022 and other provisions". The Standing Committees on Economic Affairs, Production and Trade, Social Affairs and Public Administration, Public Order and Justice, present their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Provisions for the completion of the Agreement on Financial Objectives and Structural Reform - Medium-term Financial Strategy 2019-2022 and other provisions". The above draft law was characterised by the Government as urgent and by the Co-Presponsible Committees on Finance, Production and Trade, Social Affairs and Public Administration, accepted by majority vote as an urgency under Rule 110 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The Conference of Presidents decided, at its meeting on 8 June 2018, to discuss the draft law in two single sessions, in principle, articles, amendments and all. Does the House agree with the decision of the Conference of Presidents?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u2	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u3	Do you, Mr. Koutsouko, individually or as a representative of the Democratic Partnership?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u4	You are right, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to invoke the decision of the committees. However, when they decided that the bill would be discussed under the urgency procedure, they were not aware that amendments would be tabled at the end of the debate. I am referring specifically to a very serious amendment concerning HISBIA. Of course, the plenary could change the decision of the committees, but I imagine that the majority will not accept it. At least, allow us to place ourselves at the end of the debate on the amendments separately. Let us not talk, in other words, just once and give us the opportunity - because the single debate does not provide for the debate on the articles, as you know - very soon and with an economy of time to be placed on the amendments. I believe that the majority will accept that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u5	Mr Kutsuko, one of the amendments has left. The others have been accepted. So it is a very short comment that you can make and we will not open another round for the amendments. That's my proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u6	A lot of democracy has fallen!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u7	It's not a question of democracy. It's a matter of procedure you knew her about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u8	Madam President, I would like to speak on a point of order for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u9	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u10	Because we have been used to the last minute by the ministers to bring amendments during the debate and, indeed, not only to amendments but also to legislative improvements, which are whole bills - there has been a 20-page legislative improvement - I would like you to ask the Ministers whether they intend to table such amendments or legislative improvements, so as to know how we will be placed. Because if there is such an inconsistency during the debate, as I say it, we should know how to place ourselves. Please address the question to the Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Minister, would you like to address Mr. Tragaki's question?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u12	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u13	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u14	You're right, Mr. President. It's not the best tactic. All governments have been doing this in recent years under pressure...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u15	Not to such an extent.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u16	And you with more amendments. I have the evidence here, and I can testify. On the substance of the matter, however, I will tell you that there will be an amendment to HISPIA, as we are discussing now, there will be one for taxi drivers, etc. And there will be one for the CFS, which will be very small. These three are. I don't think there's anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u17	So, Madam President, it is not one, but three.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u18	He's been filed since last night, as I'm told. So, Mr. Kutsuko, you had to read it all night and comment today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u19	Madam President, please speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u20	That was already known. It does not say any new amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u21	Madam President, I would like to speak again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u22	Here, Mr. Tragakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u23	The draft legislation under discussion, Mr Minister, is not just your competence but also other three ministers. And not just.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u24	I told you it was one of all ministries.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u25	Of all the ministries, did you say? Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u26	For example, cars are Mr. Spirtzi's.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u27	Madam President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Pachilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u29	The first thing we want to note is that the government's decision to bring bills - very serious and very large - under the urgency procedure has now been consolidated and that is unacceptable. Others said he does more, as usual. The second thing we want to note in particular is that this cannot continue, in principle and on the articles, the debate on the subject. It is impossible to analyse and place ourselves in so many articles they have. And while we keep putting the matter, it's like talking to the ears of no listeners, as they say. This is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u30	You're right, Mr. Paphie. We hope that after August it will not be repeated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u31	Every time we hear that, 'you are right, the next...', 'you are right, the next...'. But that goes on!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u32	No, you don't. There will be no more such bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u33	After August, yes, we'll leave the memorandum and all the laws will be left, so we'll be fine!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u34	Thank you. Does the House agree with the proposal on the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u35	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u36	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u37	The House has agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u38	By a majority, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u39	Hey, always. Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u40	You should say that, 'by a majority'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u41	That's for granted, Mr. Tragakis. I don't suffocate consents. We know. You've already said your arguments. It's known. Ladies and gentlemen, two unconstitutional requests have been made. You have them in mind. I don't know if the whole House has them, but the heads of the parties have them. One is Mr. George Carras and the other is Mr. Loverdou. By the time we split them, we'll say the part where they're going to grow. I would ask that they be distributed. Until the objections are distributed, I'll read them to you to earn time. Mr Loverdos as a parliamentary representative raises objections to the constitutionality of Article 80 and Article 109(2), paragraph 2A.2. Infringements by Article 80 of the draft law, Articles 65, 109 and 102 of the Constitution and Article 109(2), point 2A(2), Article 106(1) of the Constitution. That's Mr. Loverdo's objection. In addition, Mr Carras' objections are as follows: ‘In accordance with Article 6(3) of L.3869/2010, which applies to highly indebted natural persons: “The claims of private creditors secured by a special privilege or property right shall continue to be discharged until a final decision on the application is adopted at an informed debt rate. Other claims shall cease with the notification of the application to produce legal or contractual interest. Such debts shall be considered as due and shall be calculated with the current at the time of notification of their claim for value.” This regulation shows that the legislator's provision to the debtor is not to be borne by his financial situation with additional interest at the stage of the case. In view of its indiscriminate wording, even if the application for the law is dismissed definitively or finally, it is not envisaged to charge retroactively additional interest, such as the difference with the highest interest on late payment, in the case of an informed debt, or interest on late payment in the case of cessation of the toddlers. Paragraph 5 of the proposed Article 60 of the draft law provides: at the end of paragraph 3 of Article 6 of Law 3869/2010, a subparagraph is added as follows: “The cessation or limitation of the tochid during the first two subparagraphs shall never be deemed to have occurred if the application is rejected finally”. According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, the provision is proposed, since, in the same view of the explanatory statement, ‘the debtor may not benefit solely from the fact that he has exercised an application for refusal or because the conditions for his protection under Law 3869/2010 are not met or because his application is subject to formal defects which render it unacceptable’. Ladies and gentlemen, I can see that the distribution of objections has been completed. So I stop reading so that we can get into this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, you object to constitutionality and ask that the House give its opinion, we shall apply Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure. According to this, the speaker, the vice-presidents, or the parliamentary representatives and the relevant ministers, have the right to speak every five minutes of the hour. I am giving the floor directly to Mr Carras, who has the longest objection, to present it briefly. Mr. Carras, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u42	Madam President, there is this issue and I shall briefly refer to it after my objections have been read, which you have raised. The previous law, which had not changed since 2010, allowed the application to be subject to the protective provisions of the law on overdated households, as regards the claims secured, the debt was calculated at an interest rate of informed debt, i.e. with the contractual amount, while the other claims, unsecured, were interrupted until the end of the case. The law itself had no provision anywhere to say that after the expiry of the case, interest is calculated retroactively, meaning that the privilege it granted was absolute and without question. Today the provision of the draft law proposed in Article 60(5) says: 'If the application is rejected, interest on late payment is calculated'. In other words, the debt, if it is in fact secured by the difference in interest, contract with interest on late payment, which is 2%, 2.5% more, is borne by debts that were not secured, as is the case with consumer loans or cards, is borne by the interest on late payment. So what does that mean? It means - I say this as an example - that if we have a debt of 100,000 to a bank and the application is rejected, then it will now be imposed during the five or seven years, which is the usual time of pre-trialization, and the amount of 100,000 will be 135,000, at least 140,000 in retrospectively and unforeseeablely. Why am I saying 'unprecedented'? There would be no need for any provision to be made to the law proposed by the government, if that were the case. It's not true that the cessation of toddlers was resurrecting. There's nothing of this. So today the government is coming to do two things. Firstly, to impose retrospective bruising for an undetermined period of years. And here, if you like, there is also a matter of civil law, because the cancellation of interest is five years old. In that case, we have seven, eight years in due course, will interest be charged for five, seven, eight years, in breach of general principles of law? In addition, the law makes no distinction as to the reasons for rejecting the application. The grounds for rejecting the application may be from fraud, if any, of the applicant, even formal errors in his legal record. Forget, get in there, testify an excuse. The rigour of the law leads the judge to rejection. This, however, now has a punishing character because it overly burdened the debtor, who had predicted and trusted the legislation of the Greek State, which was pure and absolute, that he gave him a privilege of not having an interest obligation. And the government comes retrospectively today and says "you will pay". In addition, this regulation also has another dimension that bothers me most. It actually gives an immunity to the banks, another form of immunity! In other words, the banks always attempted to impose interest when the debtor did not receive information or had no legal representation at least at the stage of the settlement or settlement of the loan, taking into account additional interest on late payment. This illegality that was not provided for is now legalised by the government by the provision it proposes. There are, therefore, questions: legal certainty. The rule of law which has a constitutional coverage. Human protection. Economic freedom. These are issues which I consider to be insulted by this regulation and to be more specific, legal certainty is the whole legal system. The unknowing, ignorant, is therefore, on many occasions, a debtor, who has been subjected to the Katseli law procedure, is calling for the rejection of the request for a thousand reasons, from the statistics which we all know up to 35%, about 40% satisfying, the others because of the strict conditions of the law are being rejected massively or forced, and by the banks that their properties will be auctioned, to waive the application - to overthrow his family, social, economic situation with a 50% increase in his loan. So this offends legal certainty and the principle of the rule of law. It is not fair that a state which has been granted a privilege for eight years - the Katseli law has been in force since 2010, and it is the law of PASOK, as Mr Cremastino rightly reminded me - that it overturns it and comes by a measure to simply make arbitrary claims of banks more difficult. ........................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u43	All right, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u44	The protection of the individual - I live in this alone, Madam President - must be general and not when we have agreed with the institutions and have accepted it or suggested that protection be cancelled. The Constitution prevails with any agreement of the Government. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Loverdo, would you now like to speak of your objection?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u46	One - one to discuss them, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u47	Shall we have another circle? We have said that it should be tomorrow by 3 p.m. that the bill has been passed. The Members who are to be written must be expressed. How long will they talk? In that sense. I do not think there will be any question. There will also be tolerance from the Bureau. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u48	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, if we measure the rulings of the courts, on the basis of which the SYRIZA - ANLE unconstitutional laws have been proclaimed, we will see that these decisions are more than the objections of unconstitutionality put before the National Representation. It means that the National Representation at this time when we are opposition with a great deal of enthusiasm is dealing with the issue. Read what the Scientific Research Directorate says, on how many issues he makes comments. And we could, if it were you, the whole meeting today, eat it for them. No, we're talking. Mr Karas spoke in a very specific way about a matter. I'll put two more. One particularly concerned the committees that met in the last few days. For all three of us informed us yesterday with my own intervention at the committee meeting and we warned the government whether a change can be made to avoid this debate. There was no reaction. So now we are developing our arguments. First and most serious and more political to you in the majority, the question of Article 109(2), in which the relevant convention is incorporated into our law, the relevant agreement. Point 14, 2a2. Read it, ladies and gentlemen. And so that we don't waste time, I can tell you in a few words. In this arrangement, the Government puts you a guarantee of the property of the Greek State that has been subject to the supremacy of your one century. Among other things, the shares of the utilities: EKDAP, Greek Petroleum, Natural Gas, the shares we have in OTE, PPC, etc., etc., etc. In Article 106(1) of the Constitution, all the post-cultural debate has touched on the potential for state intervention in the economy. All of the state-run PASOK. The times have passed, they have changed, the State's inadequacies to run the businesses, which it had statised, or utilities in a rational manner have been demonstrated. The freedom of the market theories were slowly dominated and the case-law of the courts ceased to be concerned, but not with the theory of constitutional law, which says - last of all - that Article 106(1) of the Constitution, which lays down what I have said, may no longer be dealt with by the parties and politicians and governments as before, but has certain insurmountable points. These insurmountable points are related to public wealth. The opposition has said that, I do not remember now which colleagues from the parties. In his 20-minute speech, the Minister, Mr. Tsakalotos, rises to Step and reproachs the MPs who have spoken of a pledge. They didn't make a legal position. A pledge is a direct privileged right, which a lender has on one thing. Speak indignant. He also opened his hands like a crucifix and said that he is not a pledge, but is a guarantee, as if he did not know the text of his arrangements. This organization that you have created - in applauding - for a century, with the assets that I have described before you, but also others, becomes the first debtor - read! In other words, he is a payer if the public fails to fulfil his obligation. You are opposed to the Constitution in Article 106(1). And because, Madam President, I have no more time, for the other regulation, for Rule 80, as a parliamentary representative, I will speak for two minutes, but now I want to make a very small introduction. I would ask you very much to read the comments on Article 80 of the Directorate for Scientific Studies. It raises two issues: firstly, that it is contrary to Article 65 of the Constitution for the Financial Self-Government of the Parliament and, secondly, that what I raised yesterday is contrary to Article 102 of the Constitution on local self-government. And where there are, in the context of legal persons - who take the funds available to them - and institutions, as a result of donations based on inheritance or coding, and in this case Article 109 does not allow you to take the cash available to them, to repos and to deal with your own problems as a central government. I will say this in more words, but the meaning of the objection we make is that. And let me tell you one last sentence, Minister: a little contraction does not hurt. You have said exactly the opposite of what you three and a half years are doing as the Minister of Finance. When addressing this House, it is better to speak with more complicity. These indignation explosions that you have not arisen reasonably as a result of your actions. And my last sentence is as follows: no one has been judged in politics by what he says, we are all judged by what we are doing. And you've got a lot of things to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u49	SYRIZA has the floor on the part of Mr. Parafavopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is, in fact, an insult with the unconstitutionality of three regulations, Article 60, Article 80 and Article 109, which are included in the text submitted by both Members, from one Parliament and from the other. The first objection to anti-constitutionality has only been raised now and concerns the use of interest as a retroactive assumption, in the case where an application has been made to administrative justice, and in retroactively rejects this request. It is a case that cannot in any way be classified as unconstitutional and is certainly absolutely characteristic that the report of the Scientific Committee of Parliament does not even bother to deal with this particular issue. I will say this a little more in detail: Obviously, the Constitution in some cases does not want there to be retroactive burdens. This is, of course, mainly the case in the field of criminal law, penalties and tax law. What he does not want is the retroactive introduction of sanctions or tax burdens. This is not a retroactive introduction. Taxes have been introduced. An appeal shall be brought to the court in respect of taxes which have been introduced. The arrangement is directly applicable. We have nothing to do with retrospectiveness in any way and we have to think about the ratio of constitutional arrangements, which is not to put the citizen on the table with burdens, taxes or other sanctions, which he did not know when he did the corresponding acts, for which he was once again taxing. This is a matter of taxes, which he already knows, which are already provided for in the Constitution and in no way can there be any mention here of retroactive taxation. Furthermore, let us add that we are dealing with cases where tax actions are rejected, which may have been brought even on the grounds of paralysis, may have been rejected on grounds of inadmissibility and should in no way have such an abusive regulation been allowed by law. As far as Article 80 is concerned, when it comes to binding the resources of the LAG, but also to binding available legal persons under public-private law, once their funds can be transferred to the single account, we will see them in turn. Firstly, regarding the amounts of public-private legal persons. First of all, there can be no question of breaking will conditions or codes. They set certain conditions, certain objectives of the heritage, these conditions and they remain in force, as they have just been set. The transfer of funds does not in any way entail a burden which calls into question the ownership of the agencies of the corresponding amounts. It states that the agencies concerned have the right to be disposed of and to be kept and managed simply in a different way. The current rules are, of course, repeated and repeated in order to actually add a guarantee, that is to say, that the agencies will have a lasting right, that they will be informed of the amount of available funds, which are their own. Of course the same applies to the Ottawas. They shall not be cancelled by such a regulation, much more so that the Constitution in Article 102(5) provides that a State is to take the legislative, regulatory and budgetary measures necessary to ensure the financial autonomy and the resources necessary to carry out the tasks of the agencies concerned. Finally, as regards Article 109, which is also affected by its constitutionality and concerns the legal person established, the Hellenic Company of Participants and Property, as it is known, has already been established by Law No.4389/2016, having, of course, the financial facility contract with the European Support Facility, which was provided for in the original contract of August 2015. What is envisaged is that this company, with its amounts, guarantees the fulfilment of the obligations of the Greek State. It should be noted here that these assets, even if they were not owned by the company it is established, would remain the full ownership of the Greek state as assets, without changing anything. And in any case, this provision cannot be said in any way, is in breach of Article 106 of the Constitution, which stipulates that the State is planning and coordinating economic activity in the country and takes the appropriate measures to promote regional development and the promotion of the economy, since what this guarantee serves is precisely the economic development of the country, which requires the sustainable management of public debt, that is to say, which is to say, guaranteed by the guarantee in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u51	The circle of parliamentary representatives is now beginning. Mr. Mada, you'll start.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u52	Then, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Maddash will speak last. Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u54	I shall begin with the point raised by Mr Demetrios Karras. I have to say, first of all, that it is not a simple matter, because it raises the question of interpreting a specific amendment to a specific article based on the general principles of not only the Constitution but also the law of both the country and any favoured state. He raised matters of legal certainty, human rights, protection of personality and a rightful system. I followed the conceivable position of the Minister, Mr. Paradoxopoulos. I have to tell you that there is a debate here, but I think that the good crisis, if any, takes into account the general trend in the decision of the Council of State, is in favour of the unconstitutionality that my colleague, Mr Carras, has invoked. And I'm explaining. Ladies and gentlemen, the general trend, which must be the predominant trend in any House and in any government, is a top of economic freedom and self-interest in the individuality of the citizen and must be in favour of limiting those provisions which impose a penalty in one way or another when the citizen has recourse to the institutions of justice. Indeed, in the present case, as the provision is made, it can reasonably be argued that this sentence has a retroactive effect. In that sense, assuming that the major good is not the collection of interest on late payment, but is the right of the citizen not to appeal to the judicial authorities and not to feel as a threat to his appeal, I believe that, in fact, this provision can be interpreted as unconstitutional, and I hope that the Greek justice, taking advantage of these positions, because I have no illusions, Madam President, as regards the outcome of this position, will cancel this provision, which - let us not be mocked, ladies and gentlemen - is an extra tax provision in a number of others that the government has legislated on. The noticeable difference in this provision is that it actually creates and costs recourse to justice in the form of a criminal offence, an effort by the citizen to be justified and believes that when the citizen in the end is not justified, a penalty must be imposed on him so that recourse to justice is not a right, but a prerogative. The New Democracy's view is therefore in favour of the anti-constitutional position. I come to the second point raised by Mr Loverdos. Here, ladies and gentlemen, things are easier. And it's easier for a simple reason, Minister. Because there is the report of the Scientific Service of the Parliament, which is clearly placed on both issues by express reference to specific articles of the Greek Constitution, which are imagined to be so well known that luxury development here is not enough. And I'm explaining. First of all, let's go to Article 80. Article 80 obviously violates, as expressly stated, the Scientific Service of the Parliament, the self-sufficient of the Greek Parliament. He says, "In the light of the above," the reasoning is that "the proposed arrangement cannot understand the Greek Parliament". No, maybe not, but, not like that. As a result, here the Legal Adviser to the legislative work tells you directly that the arrangement which you entered, obviously at the request of the lenders or I don't know who else, is directly unconstitutional. If the Treasury, Minister, was supposed to have been responsible for itself when he took this - let's assume that he was inadvertently invaded - he would simply remove the House from the order in question. In addition to the placement of the parties, what I expect, Madam President, it is the Bureau of Parliament to defend the self-interest of the Greek Parliament and the non-interference of the executive authority, that is, with you of the Government, Mr Tsakalotos, in the finances of the Greek Parliament. Because if the Bureau of Parliament does not defend the self-interest of the House, who will do so? Just Parliament and the minority in Parliament? Obviously, legal details such as the Constitution and the self-government of the House are not particularly concerned with the government. These are things 'en passant' in front of going through this, satisfying who and all good and well. But institutional adequacy, ladies and gentlemen, the sweater is not suddenly ripped out in one day. It slowly plunges up - and this is a stepping-up of this sweater, - if you like - of this institutional independence, to speak to the institutions. In the same context, a smaller insult, but equally an insult, is the issue of local government. It is also clear and we are not telling you this again, your Legal Adviser, the Legal Adviser to Legislative Work, is telling you that the downturn in the administrative and financial autonomy of the Ottawas which fall within the regulatory scope of Article 102(2)(a) of the Constitution. We therefore have clear attempts here to meet the demands of some - the Minister will tell us who - to put aside the country's institutional framework. It is not a question of committing some or some reserves. That's the lasson. The major is the direct intervention of the executive on something that the Constitution does not have the right to do. So please don't take it lightly, because when you open ferries, they finally go in and galvanize the whole system. Consequently, also on the second request, Madam President, the New Democracy is in favour of unconstitutionalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. Before giving the next parliamentary representative the floor, the President of Parliament has asked for the floor, given that the question of self-interest and autonomy has also been raised. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u56	It is a good thing that Mr. Dendias raised this issue in order to clarify it in the face.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u57	And we put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Loverdo, excuse me. I know. I said he put it intensely. That's what I mean. There is no question of any bipartite initiative. Alas! You know and know that no one has ever doubted that the House has its own budget, within specific constitutional margins. Before the state budget comes, Parliament's budget is passed, and then without changes, it enters as an annex and is incorporated into the draft budget of the State and comes to a vote. No one has ever touched on this issue and that is where autonomy begins and on Parliament's finances. Since, in recent years, there has been a pressure from both the Financial Council and from institutions and from the General Accounting Office of the State from everywhere, there has been a single printing - and only revenue - of expenditure per month, per quarter, etc., of public finances, there has been an entire debate, which has not taken much time, because there is a consensus with the Court of Auditors - because we have here and a Commissioner of the Court of Auditors - with the Government in the previous phase and now Parliament alone, I say that I am pleased that the issue has been raised by you to clarify it - has a particular code in the Bank of Greece, which is also the entire procedure of revenue and expenditure payments, etc., always in the context of the general budget. It is the only institution, the only authority on the basis of constitutional autonomy that has this special relationship monthly. So these have been restored. The opinion of the Scientific Council of the Parliament is respected. For his part, he rightly raises the question. Perhaps he could not and should not say all of what I am saying to you, but the debate is actually taking place. In other words, it is for the Parliament's reserve, which is high and we all know it. The reserve fund of the Parliament, while for years it was at the well-known very small interest rate at the National Bank and there were no revenues other than it, during the 3⁄4 years it has been attributed by decision of the Parliament to the Bank of Greece, as by other public bodies. From this action we have saved 3m euros in the last two and a half years, which have been added to Parliament's reserve. It is indeed an act that we are studying to go through for the Foundation of the Parliament, which is a legal person of private law and does not automatically go through. There is a unanimous decision of the Board of Directors of the House, in which all the former Presidents, representatives of the current Presidents, and so on, that we could proceed to this act. So the final result of this article, which, in my opinion, is only to accept, which comes from the executive, from the government, will be for the rest of the heresy that we all know applies to the municipalities as well. I was the Interior Minister when that story happened. There have been twenty-seven municipalities and regions without a problem in the allocation of their funds. All this is completely unsolved. To pass the rest of the Parliament's reserve, which is for project management, on this line, always with decision and full autonomy of the Parliament, which is guaranteed at all levels. That is why I would like to reassure the legitimate objections you raised with reference to what the Scientific Committee of the Parliament says. It is in the knowledge of the Scientific Committee of Parliament that this is our attitude and has the broadest approval. These issues have been known for the past few years. We also have a serious financial result from this case, which should not be ignored. That's what this is about. I think I have actually answered the matter. I repeat that there is a special code of the House for all the financial and special budgets of the House. This debate has started well, let me tell you. In the Samara government, over the previous government, the same thing was done, the harmonisation of the wage issues concerning the House - to speak openly - and the special status of this House as a whole. I won't call it privileged. I'm not opening foreheads with the past. We all know. There, with the consent of all of us at that time, there has been harmonisation and, after this harmonisation, there has obviously also been a more general harmonisation, without losing any sign of the self-interest and constitutional self-reliance that this House has on economic issues. Excuse me for the interruption. I found a chance to talk because you put it. Thank you, Mr. Loverdo and Mr. Teddy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u59	So there's going to be some kind of legislative improvement? Any clarifications? There is also a proposal from the report from the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. We'll see when the ministers talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u60	The proposal from the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, Madam President, is an opinion. We take it into account. I do not think any repair should be obtained. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Dendias has the floor now because he will not take the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u62	Madam President, I am not going to get far. And I would like to start by thanking the President of Parliament for raising and placing himself in this matter and for recognising his existence indirectly. I would like to say that in your remark, there is of course a recommendation. The suggestion concerns the government, and it seems to me that the Minister has not immediately risen to accept and agree with it. As far as the position of the President of Parliament is concerned, I would like to reply from now on. Mr President, may I speak directly? I address the Bureau again, since you are the President. You have not been here as a Member of Parliament. As you have actually placed yourself on the ground and proved, the placement has also been economically beneficial. No one in the Chamber sees it. No one is questioning it, but no one is investigating it. At the end of the day - we are not a monitoring tool for this management, nor do we intend to do so. We are only talking about - I imagine I am speaking on Mr Loverdos' side - in the express wording of an obligation. The word 'obligation' in the text of the legislation, Madam President, is a direct violation. I would therefore ask you - and I have mentioned your institutional role, so that Mr Tsakalots does not consider that this is a normal opposition effort - to intervene in order to remove the word 'commitment'. Only the privilege or choice of the House can be. There cannot be in the legislation, ladies and gentlemen, the word 'obligation'. Do you understand? Don't accept that. It makes no difference who is a majority, who is a minority, who is a government. It is a huge institutional offender, obviously imposed in total demand from I do not know which creditors, who are not aware of the institutional limits. I am a little concerned about this, but I am bothered by the unreasonable adoption by the government and, worst of all, at the moment when this is pointed out. The truth is, indirectly, that, without wanting to interpret it, the President of Parliament says that we are doing this here, but since Parliament voluntarily helps the state, Minister, remove the word 'obligatory'. There is no territory in the Constitution of the country where the word "compulsory" can stand, addressed by you, the Minister of Finance to the sovereign Greek Parliament. Can I tell you what? You're a tool of the House. You are not her boss, to say 'you will do that'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty two students and students and two educational attendants from the 8th Elementary School of Gerakas. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now I'm going to give Mr. Loverdo the floor. Mr. Loverdo, I'll give you two minutes' time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u64	No, Madam President. I am not a second-guesser, I am speaking as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u65	Because matching properties is...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u66	You saw I kept my time. I was almost five minutes old. Look, I, too, thank the President of Parliament for his intervention and I will thank him twice if, at least in the next few hours, he sends us the famous agreement with FYROM, because we are talking about it and we are still not getting it. I spoke to Mrs. Gennamas a minute ago. We haven't seen her yet. Madam President, I raised a number of issues on Article 109 and this convention in relation to the EUR 25 billion guarantee and I was very detailed. I won't repeat it. I shall, however, add a political peak. This government seems to have even envied the prophecies of the High Gate. Article 109(2) must not be accepted by you. You must read it and do not agree to vote on it. But I did have time to make a little reference to Article 80, because I did not want to abuse the time. There has been a special and extensive debate on the issues of Article 65 of the Constitution for Parliament, but Article 102 of the Constitution on local government has been left almost outside our debate. Haven't you defended her financial self-interest? It is enshrined in Article 102(2). Have you not defended the constitutional provision that says that 'any power transferred to the municipalities and regions must be accompanied by resources'? Haven't you defended the delay in returning the taxes collected by the State on behalf of the local government, and does it not pay them at least in time? That's all you've defended. How will you not defend yourself when their cash is at the discretion of the Greek Government? You are against your words. I leave the government and address the majority. What did Mr. Carras even say? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will close with this. I want to make it as simple as possible. I am surprised that the rival of SYRIZA did not show the elementary sensitivity to it at all, which concerns people and spoke about taxes, while Mr Carras spoke of interest. SYRIZA spoke on another subject. What's the problem? It was the PASOK law, and when one made an application to be made, that application deported him from the tenure, from the interest rate. He wouldn't pay interest even if his application was rejected. Mr. Justice Minister, we ask you to do this by your intervention. What do you say? It is wrong that the numbering, as you have done, should owe taxes, should owe interest, disgusting numbering, but not occupying the outstanding cases, take over the cases of applications that will be submitted after the adoption of this law, because in the corresponding case, as you have done, retroactiveness creates problems. That's what we're telling you. It is no big deal, and we have said it since yesterday to come here today to correct it. It's a small thing to do so much violation of the Constitution in the articles that Mr. Karras mentioned. Madam President, we are asking this House, at least in this third case, and at least in relation to the issues which have to do with Parliament's organisation and their autonomy, for majority Members to do their duty, to see what they have to do with at least their past. As far as Article 109(2) is concerned, read it. I ask you to read it. They're five lines, they're enough to make you understand exactly what the government has brought you here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u67	Thank you. Mr. Panayotarus has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Madam President. He said the Honourable President of the House that he saved two and a half million euros and you just gave five to the Ministry of Migration Policy yesterday, and we put two and a half million euros from somewhere else. Before we move on to the issues of constitutionality, as today, if this is what this tells you, in 323 of Christ, the Triumphant of the Greeks, Alexander the Great, died. But it looks like you've been grounded by some people. As regards the issues of unconstitutionalism, which you have been saying, and which, for eight years now, you have constantly raised these issues, and now as a government, you are rejecting them, the same thing has been done with nowadays Opportunism. We can remind you of many cases of unconstitutionalism. The anti-constitutionalism that has brought about three and a half memorials and one that you bring tomorrow with the good - and you will be applauded - will be unconstitutional by the fact that on the substance you have made the Constitution a rampant card, because you are constantly talking about the Constitution. We have told you and will repeat it today, since you speak of interest, in Article 95 of the Constitution, paragraph 5, says that the administration has an obligation to comply with the judgments, court decisions that apply to them or reject them, and the breach of that obligation gives rise to liability for every competent body, as laid down in the law. The Act lays down the necessary measures to ensure compliance of the administration. We're coming to the interest issue. There are thousands of court decisions in favour of borrowers for all kinds of loans. And there is nothing that the central government, the state, the government, can move in this direction, but you are acting solely for the benefit of banks and bankers. To understand what I want to say, there is also Law 128/1975 that some illegal contributions by banks to borrowers have been deemed illegal, there have been questions, questions, questions and the prosecutor is also dealing with this. In itself, this law and the fact that it was illegal for these contributions to be put into place by the bankers make them invalid all the claims of the banks to the borrowers, whatever they are and much more. If you wanted to help the ordinary Greek citizen, you could do it. But you do not want, you do not care, because you are working on behalf of others and not for those who are supposed to have voted on you. We are in favour of any request for unconstitutionality, because anyway what you have been doing for eight years is unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Pachilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u70	It would be very interesting to have a study on these issues of unconstitutionality. And I'm explaining what I mean. To sit down and work out what demands for unconstitutionalism have been made at least in the last ten years, by which parties, in what periods and to make certain comparisons. What do I mean? When New Democracy and PASOK are opposed, they raise issues of unconstitutionality, which, of course, if it were government, would have been completely applied. When SYRIZA was Opposition, we were dead every day at all. Right or wrong, I'm not judging. Unconstitutional, the memorandum came, applied them and brought another memorandum. He even said that it is contrary to international law and too many other things that have now been completely reversed. So it is being used - and it also gives the Constitution which is elastic, because it has general expressions - for reasons of impression and not for reasons of substance. Secondly - since you are fighting - who decides whether it is a constitutional or anti-constitutional? The current government's majority in the House and the majority in the House. Yes or no? I do not know whether there is even one case - Mr Tragakis may have known - that the government's majority in law or an article that objected to anti-constitutionalism and decided that it was indeed unconstitutional. Is there, Mr. Tragakis? Oh, no. So it's hypocrisy and mockery toward the people. Hypocrisy and mockery towards the people is this issue of unconstitutionalism, because in essence each government decides what is constitutional and what is not, and of course the Constitution that is rubber. For these specific cases, we support unconstitutionality. However, we want to note that this is a great deal of hypocrisy by the political forces and by those who raise the issue of constitutionality and by SYRIZA who is in the government. Why? For example, we are talking about the selfishness of the OTAs. Isn't that right? And now that the government is intervening and making it compulsory, it puts the target and mayors who refuse to submit to central policy - I do not want to name - and it is in a sense unconstitutional and also anti-lingual. But when since the 1990s, Mr. Loverdos, your government and the Government of New Democracy illegally retained taxes that were in local administration and never gave them, was that constitutional? What rights did he do that to? The taxes paid by Greek citizens and employees have never been paid in full. They had stopped at 5 billion drachmas once, but they had reached over 10 billion if I'm not mistaken. They have never been rendered - illegally on the basis of the Constitution - to local government bodies. Wasn't that unconstitutional? That is why we say that it is hypocrisy and that there has always been intervention. Also, as far as matters here are concerned, interest on late payment and so on, is indeed unacceptable. And why? Give an explanation, Mr. Chakaloto. Who's this helping? The banks or the people he owes? But is it hypocritical in what respect? That while all of you and previous governments and now you are voting laws that break the popular layers - you agree with 'one-three', a loan is paid three times, so the banking system - the worker is at a dead end and now you are getting defenders out. While, on the one hand, you create the institutional framework that comes to a dead end, it goes into regulation and the government is now coming and this article makes this position worse. That is why I say that it is also hypocritical from the point of view of those who raise an issue of unconstitutionality. Is all this policy pursued based on the principles set out in the Constitution in general? No, in our opinion. We, however, support unconstitutionalism in the sense that we are defending the interests of the people in general, on the basis of these possibilities which are being given and which, in the end, are in vain, as it proves, not as we say. They are in vain because no request for unconstitutionality has ever been adopted. That's why it's a mockery against the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. I don't see Mr. Lazarides. Mr. George Mavrotas from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Madam President. By listening to colleagues, speakers and contributors to the objections of unconstitutionalism, Articles 60, 80 and 109, and by seeing the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament, which specifically devoted to Article 80 five full pages of reflection - some of them also developed by colleagues earlier - we are in favour of all three cases on the objections of unconstitutionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Mandas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u74	I will speak very briefly only on the matter raised in relation to the self-interest of the House. What I would like to say is that the point made by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament - which does not speak of unconstitutionalism, this is my reading - does say that it needs to be clarified in terms of constitutional requirements. I would therefore say, after the speech by the President of Parliament, that we have, in consultation with the Bureau and with the Bureau of Parliament, the opportunity to clarify this in a different form, since these general provisions do not, in our view, affect the special status of this House. In this sense, the proposal and the thought are that we could find a wording to clarify this issue by the end of the procedure. After all, as the President of Parliament has said, it is, in fact, quite clear, as it relates to specific codes, specific management and continuous monitoring on the part of the House. I would only like to make this comment and I think that a different wording can be found.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u75	So what do we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u76	I say again that there is no question of unconstitutionalism in this particular matter. It is also a question of clarifying a different wording. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u77	Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u78	I will speak first of all about the issue of the 'Katsellis - Stathakis' which, as Mr Paradropoulos explained, expressly states where and where retroactiveness is not permitted. This provision does not fall within five prohibitions on retroactive legislative intervention. However, I should like to say a little bit about the substance, Mr Loverdo and Mr Pafile, who said that we do not support the people. I'll tell you how I understand it on the ground. What I understand is that if there is Euclid who has a loan and has other houses, and he doesn't care to pay the interest, and there is a Thanasis who is an honest man, unlike Euclid, who doesn't have any houses and does not get into this law, Thanasis after, when the court says that he does go into the provisions of "Katelis - Stathakis Law", Euclidis if he is a bad payer and knows in advance that he has other houses, but he won something. He wins he won't pay those interest. Why is that fair? Why is that for the people? I didn't get it. Here, if we don't get through this, we're protecting a malicious payer, a strategic bad payer. He's a bad payer who says "I can win interest if I don't pay." Why would we do that? On the substance, I do not think you have any argument, as I understand that we are doing. We shall now proceed to the point. I will not talk about the House, because this clarification has been made and perhaps we will discuss it later. There will be a debate on how we can make the clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u79	What are we gonna decide?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u80	You don't understand. It's okay. I'm trying to tell you what Mr. Mandash said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u81	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u82	You won't interrupt me, Mr. Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u83	Please! The vote will take place immediately after your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u84	Madam President, the Minister has a difficulty in hiring the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u85	You don't have to do this now. Here you go, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u86	There will be a debate to clarify it. Now we're going to local government. I just want to add that what we have before us is a transitional provision. The substance has already been voted on. We're not doing anything different here. This is a transitional provision. The President of Parliament said how much the House has won for the last two or three years - I do not remember - where the Parliament's money is at the Central Bank. It's a sum of two or three million, I don't remember. I tell you to take a test, take ten or fifteen or twenty municipalities, some who are in the New Democracy, some who are in PASOK, some of the Left and the independent, and do the same test for the municipalities. In other words, as an economist and not as a legal person, I see that there are economies of scale in this. And because these economies exist - and it is a good thing to have - the municipalities have won too much. I have visited and talked to certain mayors and they say that this has given them extra resources for their municipality. So I really don't see what the problem is. No self-interest is affected by this provision for the Municipality of Trikalon or Preveza. None! They're just making more money for their citizens. I really do not understand what the problem is. Third, let's go to the HR now. I wasn't angry or indignant. We had a serious discussion with Mr Voridis and I almost convinced him of our strong positions on this matter! All I have as a complaint is that there seems to be a collective amnesia - and I am worried about you, I do not have any indignation - of the two hundred and twenty-two Members who voted for Mr.4336, to whom the convention was in. And within this contract it says that when the excess is created, it will become a contracting party to the contract and there will be guarantees for part of the ESM loan that we received in 2015. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] What's changed since then? What changed and you don't remember? I am very sorry for some, such as Mr Carras and Mr Mavrotha - if I am not mistaken - who were not Members at that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u87	We were.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u88	But the rest of you, what exactly do you say? Two hundred and twenty-two people, MPs, parliamentarians, voted for a contract that says...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u89	Please, be quiet! You will take the floor to say your views.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u90	Are you looking at us on top of this?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u91	Mrs. Bakoyannis!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u92	Listen, Mrs. Bakoyannis, because you usually hear arguments. I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u93	You don't hear any arguments. After Varoufakis... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u94	You don't hear any arguments. May I speak to Mrs Bakoyannis who at least listens? In the contract that you have voted on there, it says that there will be an excess, and that will give guarantees. And when it becomes the Supreme Court, it will become a Contracting Party to the Agreement. That's what you voted on. If you've suffered amnesia, it's not my fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u95	For the banks... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u96	Please, Mrs. Vulture, in this style at last! Let the Minister speak. The Minister of Justice, Mr. Kontonis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think that things are simpler than they have been presented so far. I am referring first and foremost to the issue of the House, which has emerged from Mr Teddy's position. It is quite clear that this provision does not concern Parliament. The House is not a body of the general government. On the contrary, there is a special provision in the Rules of Procedure of the House which excludes it. So all this debate, which is taking place in Parliament, is irrelevant. And that is what the Scientific Committee of Parliament says, that, that is to say, the House cannot be included in the general government's bodies because it is excluded by a special provision in Parliament's Rules of Procedure. When we have a special provision, therefore, Parliament cannot in any case be subject to a more general framework. But it says - and here there can be a debate - that the government will see - that to avoid - be careful - of interpretation can clearly include what I am saying to you in this bill. Unconstitutionalism doesn't exist. In my opinion, it is most important to include it, but if the Minister responsible and the General Secretariat of the Government and Parliament consider that this is necessary in order to avoid misinterpretation, there is no question. But don't create issues where they don't exist. Secondly, with regard to the tachygenic that has been put in relation to Article 60(5), take note, ladies and gentlemen, of approaching the 2010 law at the end of the day and looking at the purpose. What does the legislator want to protect? He wants to protect that citizen who needs protection. Who decides whether someone should be protected? The court. So this provision comes in and is added to the existing legislative framework and says: Anyone who submits this request to the court of pacifism also has protection for the tacosy issue. But if it is decided by the court that it should not be protected, then of course the legitimate interest will be paid. That's what the order says. If, then, we agree with the self-evident view that the 2010 provision, as is stated in the law, was intended to protect those in need of protection, and that is what the courts say, but we must now agree that those for whom the courts have judged that they should not be protected should also pay interest. For eight years of implementation of the law, apart from the positive ones, which the government has stressed by means of legislation after 2015, we have also abusive right exercise and we are well aware of it. We must therefore be honest here: the one to be protected will be protected throughout the length and width of the provisions of the law. He, however, who judges that it operates improperly, cannot be protected and legitimate interest will be imposed. With regard to the question of Article 80(7), raised by Mr Loverdos, it does not concern benets in favour of the general public, it does not concern beetles, codexes, wills, etc. So let's clarify this thing. It is the constitutional provision expressly and unequivocally. The law does not make any sense, so I understand that the debate on unconstitutionalism would make sense. As far as the Ottawas are concerned, I would like to say something other than what Mr Tsakalotos said, so that I do not repeat the allegations which were absolutely thorough and clear. This provision, as the Minister told you, clearly describes the current arrangements during the transitional period of L.4270 Article 69A of 2014. But this law was passed and found to be a constitutional one by you, you voted for it in 2014. We are here to add the transitional provisions, precisely so that there is no gap. If we want to be honest with each other, we should say that if it is unconstitutional what comes today, it should be unconstitutional and what is based on, which is the 2014 law. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there are no issues of unconstitutionalism and we call on the House to vote against the relevant objections. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure on the issue of unconstitutionalism has been concluded. Accepting the objections of unconstitutionalism, please rise. [[Accepting objections]] Not accepting the objections of unconstitutionality, please rise. [[Non-accepting objections arise]] It is obvious that most of the objections against anti-constitutionalism were raised. The objections to anti-constitutionalism are therefore rejected. I shall now give the floor to the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Balaura. I would also like to inform you that the speaker's registration system is being opened, so you have been rushed. Mr Balaura, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to move on to a staff, I would say, issue, to thank the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group for its symbolic move, that it has decided to instruct me to make today's recommendation, because it has made me the honour of being the rapporteur for the memorandum and today I am rapporteur for a bill that opens the way to finally finish the memorandum in August that comes to us. I remember, on this occasion, what happened at the time. We became government in a bankrupt and looted country. The world was on the streets every day. I have now remembered a Latin phrase, 'corruptio optimis pessima', which means that the corruption of the excellence is worse than other corruption. Seferis, in fact, said about Elliot's "desert country": "hot, sterile and waterless, deserted country, without hope of salvation". So that is what we were, when we took over the government, in this situation. We gave a titanic battle for six months in and out of Greece. We all remember the 'left parenthesis'. Self-esteeming prophecies, even in capital controls! Remember the infamous Dieselblum, who signalled the withdrawal of the bank deposits? Remember, on the New Democracy side, I do not now want to remind you of the names of executives who were even identified on the day the capital controls were going to take place and there would be no money in the banks? Don't scratch wounds to New Democracy headquarters! We have therefore, ladies and gentlemen, fought for ourselves - literally - both east and west. Only the movements then in Europe and generally in America supported us, as well as the intellectuals. We had opponents of this established media regime in the country, which had as a line, as a value, to say about the lies, the distortion, the propaganda. We stood up, but our plan didn't come out. We compromised trying to earn space and time. This phrase “to earn time and space” has been said by a great rebel who will not say his name. I mean it! We could not start, however, from the outset, because we had specific frameworks from the previous governments. Seferis in the Argonauts says - for the SYRIZA Government, I turn it - 'it was hope in the deep'. Does today's bill bring new measures? I say yes. It brings new measures, which are positive for labour, health, licensing and business parks, to share in the economy from over-excession, to the welfare state. Indeed, they are new measures, they are advanced measures. But that is all and not negative. People are now starting to see light in the pit that you've put us in. Hope began to appear. We're equal interlocutors. I would remind you, because it is not long, about three years, that the representative of our country, the Prime Minister, did not want to be photographed with him at the summits. They avoided sitting next to him. Do we remember that? We earned confidence, because we were implementing the commitments. We were negotiating hard, but when we agreed, we kept them and didn't do any tricks. So we have won the credibility and solve the accumulated problems of society, which you could not touch, like the "Macedonian". There's respect for our country from everywhere and it's not a scoundrel. We hit the corruption and the complications, yes or no? Undoubtedly, yes. Could we do more? There may be a yes, but the positive footprint has been left. Did we rectify the HR? We saved it. We didn't just fix it. Could we possibly do more? Possibly. That's where we'll be critical if there's any. We went to development after ten years of recession, yes or no? We've been putting order in the budget, yes or no? Exports have gone up and too much, and we now have a positive balance, yes or no? Unemployment fell from 27% to 20.1%, yes or no? Is investment going on in our country, yes or no? And there's a lot going on. We've made successful exits to the markets, yes or no? Are the bonds down? Even the day before yesterday, the Greek government's bonds fell, despite the crisis that exists both from Trump and from Italy? Are we firstly absorbing the funds for the programmes in Europe, yes or no? We use new financial instruments, yes or no? Colleagues, in August the country changes not only page but also chapter. We don't have a commission anymore. We will have - to speak clearly - enhanced surveillance. Why is that? Let's explain it. And when I say increased, I mean in relation to the other states that came out of the memos. Because we have a huge debt. I said it yesterday. Our debt is more than the sum of the debts of all the other states that had a memorandum. There's going to be a write-down. They therefore want to monitor - I stress the word'monitoring' - the creditors are following the evolution of the Greek economy. Monitoring does not mean supervision and comitology. And our bargaining opportunities have increased, because since August, after a write-down of debt has been done, we will have more degrees of freedom. So they're opening new funds. And we would like to see the recommendations of the Opposition on what issues we need after August to renegotiate. And there it will be a great bet, not only in relation to the rest of Parliament's parties, but in relation to us themselves: how will we - and the government and the MPs and SYRIZA - shape a path for what we call holistic development. We'll have to go and talk if the parties want to talk to them. Go on this path that's going to have a regional, local and national positive line, yes or no? Are we going to have such conversations in this House at last? Ladies and gentlemen, in the 2019 elections - I address the New Democracy - you will lose again, because the world does not forget. Either way, you have no ideological and political backbone. I remember something Dimitris Campourglou said: "Net thing is not what has been resolved but what has not been redeemed." And you may want to wash off, but you've dirty your nest. Even in issues where your ancestors had set the frames, such as "Macedonian", you are swayed between your extreme right and right. SYRIZA dares both in this matter and in all the difficulties that you inherited us, because he has the confidence of the world - and continues to have it - of the world of work, the heirs, the young people, the healthy, I would say, entrepreneurship. Finally, I want to remember an Elytis verse. Yeah, today's my philosopher's got me! "What color does hope have?" says Eliti. "It will be blue like the sea, which travels to places unknown and dreamed," ends up. Indeed, the ship of SYRIZA found in the infinite waters, defying both Scylla and Harybdis, but also extinct the Lotus. There are no lots of people in this country anymore. It's floating in the blue sea now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, too. Thank you for the time, Mr Balaura. Mr Stavros has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Colleague, we are discussing a multi-project today. And we're not renegotiating the poetry of the past. We are discussing a multi-project SYRIZA and ANEL cutting. It concerns the completion of the fourth evaluation of the third memorandum. And to explain, Mr. Minister, the memorial of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos. After all, you yourself said that you were the first rapporteur and the last of this memorandum. So you admit that you have the exclusion of an inappropriate memorandum, the most painful memorial tomb of the last eight years, a government which, without any moral suspension, is important - worthy stable, without ideological coordinates, without political legitimacy, despising the sensitivities of the people, signs everything for power, progressing to heavy economic and national concessions and bad agreements. But let us now confine ourselves to the multi-project plan to reflect these rating crises. Firstly, the Government argues that the country is being driven to the net exit from the memoranda. Mr. Balaurs just smacked something different. All that is complete is the financing of the country by the programmes. On the contrary, the Memorandum of Understanding policies will continue for the next few years, as the updated Memorandum, which, Ministers, was committed yesterday to presenting it to the House translated into today. And there's still no that, and you avoid doing it. The Government, in contrast to the other Member States of Europe, which came out of the memoranda, has voted for new additional austerity measures for after 2018, has committed itself to high primary objectives for five years - a plus four - has committed the public property of the country for a century, it has agreed that any interventions on the debt should be implemented after the summer - if necessary - and it has accepted - by Mr Balaurras - the mechanism of enhanced supervision - not'monitoring', the texts say'supervision' and I will correct you on this - with strict conditions. After all, Mr Regling said yesterday to the Greek Banking Association. Secondly, the Government argues that the Greek economy has been upgrading over the last three years. The truth is that the economy in many of its fundamental sizes is gleaning. And we have all the evidence that we have submitted and which you do not question: In relation to 2014 - to explain - the citizens' available income has shrinked, after you have taken steps. Private debt to the taxes and insurance funds has increased. It is 55% increased since the end of 2014. The competitiveness of the economy has declined. The capital restrictions that you imposed continue to exist. Public debt is increasing and nominal GDP at the end of 2017 has not yet reached the nominal GDP at the end of 2014. It's the latest ELSTAT data. The government of taxes, seizures and auctions, therefore, the government of the populist, client-private and parasitic narrative, is unable to lead the country to normality. Thirdly, Mr Balaura, the bill contains new measures, which have not yet been experienced by society and which were not included in the third memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u102	Today we're voting on measures?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u103	Therefore, contrary to your argument, you do not have the political legitimacy to apply them. In the third memorandum, there was no reference to measures for 2019 and 2020. None! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The main pensions will therefore be reduced from 2019. Nowhere was that in the third memorandum. The personal difference in supplementary pensions will be reduced from 2019. Nowhere was that in the third memorandum. The insurance contributions of the free professionals and farmers will be increased even further. Nowhere was that in the third memorandum. It will be cut by 35% for duty. And in order not to forget, HNPHIA, which you would announce, will grow in a million Greek households. And I'm sorry, Mr. Chakaloto, did you talk about amnesia?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u104	Collective, not for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u105	We need to talk about atomics then. I like to make things more personal. On April 12, 2016, Mr. Tsakalotos, before the first reduction in duty, said: "We were told that we need to reduce tax. We made a very small reduction in duty. As I said, it will affect someone from EUR 15 000 per year by only EUR 60 per year. We're not going to make another cut in duty. I am not prepared to testify to the Greek Parliament..."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u106	Didn't you say you wouldn't make a paradox and look forward?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u107	You spoke of amnesia, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u108	Please! Keep going, Mr. Stakoura!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u109	Mr Tsakalotos, you have provoked, because you have spoken of amnesia. "I am not prepared" - therefore - "to submit to the Greek Parliament a bill that has a tax-free less than what you will see in the bill". This before the first haircut. So there are red lines. And you know what? Ethical principles and values, ideological coordinates and the consequences of speech and work are a great advantage for a MP and Minister. These new measures therefore lead to the loss of one to three pensions and one to pay, bringing the current government's total account to EUR 14.5 billion. Mr Tsakalato, I would like to say another argument, because you are 'cut' for pensioners. Can we talk a little bit about pensioners in 2019? You told us that the calculations were wrong. In 2019, not on a mixed basis - to get together you said - you will cut off from pensioners EUR 2.1 billion. You will get for retired people, at best, if you exceed the targets - I wish you could cover them up and do it - for social protection EUR 930 million. The other balancing actions do not concern pensioners. It's about the whole society. I hope that they will be implemented. We have doubts. And because I am good enough to make use of the 700 million euro budget area. I give him to you, too, and that's where I have concerns.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u110	You can add it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u111	I'll add it to you. But it's not just about retired people. It's about the whole society. Pensioners will lose over 1 billion euros in 2019. Every pensioner will have a loss. You may say - at best - that in society as a whole will counter cuts, but it is absolutely certain that pensioners at best - who are overestimated, that is, the targets that you give dividends, you do everything and you have a financial space - will have a loss of EUR 1 billion. I am tabling a relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The available income of pensioners will therefore be further reduced in 2019. Fortunately, however, then - at the latest! - they're ending the suffering of the citizens with today's unrelenting government. Well, we solved a riddle. We solved the riddle that concerns the international community of economists: how, in other words, from the 'leaves without a memorandum', one can end up with another memorandum without money. We solved this with SYRIZA to the government! Fourthly, the government is unable to achieve a high and sustainable growth rate, so that the economy is drifting and society is poor. You restored the economy to the recession in 2015 and 2016. You failed - and even 55% - to target the target for 2017. Already review the target for 2018 downwards and anticipate shrinking rates by 2022. Do you know what you're signing? Why are you saying the economy is going incredibly well, and how is it dynamic? You are to sign that in 2022 the growth rate of the economy will be lower than in 2018. That's what the text says. That's what you're saying. In other words, you tell us that there is growth potential. Eventually, delusionals are not healed! I am tabling a relevant table on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And because you say that we supposedly risk another proof of your failure. What did you vote for last year? A medium-term assessment of growth. This year you bring in a new medium-term. What do you confess? That between last year and this year, 26 billion euros of wealth will be lost by 2021. Last year. You yourself in the medium term say that EUR 26 billion of wealth is lost by 2021. Last summer's mid-term with this year's. Yours is where you voted and you vote. And then you boast of your supposed successes. Definitely, Argits! Fifthly, the government claims - even triumphing! - that it will work much higher than the primary surplus targets, that it will work 5.2% in 2022. But what did Mr. Tsipras say on June 23, 2016, after the popular mandate you say? To read a little: 'It is absolutely impossible...' - keep the two words, not impossible, absolutely impossible! - "...primary surpluses of 3.5% after 2018 should be maintained for several years." The Prime Minister said it was absolutely impossible. When? In 2016. And he continued as follows: "Unless we want to hit the Greek economy and keep having long-term stagnation conditions. This was said in ECONOMIST on 23 June 2016. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, do not claim that the Civic Opposition is at risk. You're on your own. But I am quite sure that tomorrow, in his speech at the same conference, at ECONOMIST, Mr Tsipras will make another cubism or to say it more simply, another asshole. Besides, the hooey can't be cut! Sixth, the public property enters a mortgage and is pledged up to 25 billion euros. The Government shall amend the financial agreement in order to guarantee ‘to the European Support Mechanism the timely repayment of the country's obligations’. Minister, the starting point for this burdensome development is the “heroic” negotiations of 2015, when the government took the obligation to establish the excess fund as a ‘unreliability clause’. Indeed, then - and you should thank Census for this - with a sense of responsibility New Democracy voted for the country's stay on the hard core of the European Union. If it were not for us, the country would not be where it is with your own responsibilities, with your own irresponsibility, with your own creative ambiguity. But the memorandum bears only your signatures. I therefore answered what we were doing at the time and we are proud of our attitude. But you're forgetting something. A year later, in 2016, you brought in the establishment of the U.S. Parliament. We voted against it. Why have we voted against it? Because then you committed the entire public property of the country. This was not in 2015. There were no conditions in 2016 that we agreed in 2015, with an unprecedented transfer of mobile and immovable property without effective national and democratic control and accountability. Please tell me, please, where in the 2015 loan contract the surplus will be ninety years. Nowhere. In 2016 you voted. We voted against it. Ninety-nine years the excess, the duration of the loan thirty-five years. You put a mortgage for three times the duration of the loan. What roof was there in 2015 on the assets that will go to the superstition? It was 50 billion. What did you vote in 2016? No roof! All the assets in the superstition! We did not vote for this, with the result that my fellow Member, who is here today, supports the committee the day before yesterday, is recommending that our country is a debt colony. And then you say we're in danger? Finally, with you at the bottom of the retreats and down the road there is no! I shall conclude, Madam President, in two minutes and thank you for your tolerance. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the New Democracy is voting against the bill in principle. This is because the government lacks the will, credibility and the plan to achieve high and sustainable growth, to create quality jobs and to strengthen social cohesion, a plan which will lead to an increase in the productivity of all factors of production, traditional and youth, a plan that strengthens the quantity and improves the quality and composition of the country's wealth, without additional internal devaluation, with the support of exports and corporate investment, a plan to return a percentage of the increased brain drain and to respond to the structural transformation of labour due to technological change. The New Democracy has tabled - and is constantly enriching - a coherent and documented plan based on the principles of the social market economy, with the aim of making the maximum possible economic efficiency and the more socially fair distribution of income and wealth, based on the change in the mix of fiscal policy, by simplifying, by stabilising tax legislation and by reducing, directly and progressively, the high taxation of citizens. On the other hand, the current government, as its so-called development plan describes, is ‘thinks’ that the overall tax rate in Greece is not too high at European level. Secondly, New Democracy supports the implementation of a coherent reform plan, which will improve the competitiveness of the economy, by strengthening healthy competition in the markets in products and services, by implementing migrations, by exploiting public property, by creating an effective, modern and productive state, by investing in new endogenous sources of development, such as education, research and innovation. Thirdly, the strengthening of liquidity in the economy by making use of available European funds, the implementation of the public investment programme that has today collapsed with your responsibility at the lower level of the last decade, with the repayment of the government's dues which you do not pay for three years and the gradual normalisation of credit expansion through the banking system. The implementation of this plan will lead to higher growth rates. Over the last four decades, it has been proved that the New Democracy can best create - and more fully - the conditions for higher growth in the economy. This will in turn improve the sustainability of the debt, which, together with the necessary quantified and automatic interventions for its regulation, will give the opportunity to gradually declining already high budgetary targets, creating levels of freedom for even greater reductions in tax rates and insurance obligations. All this requires a reformist, responsible and reliable government, which will actually implement progressive and genuine patriotic policies. This is what the current government is asking for. Society, however, had quite agitated with illusions, delusionalism, populism, parasiticism. The country has quite a strong historical, geopolitical, environmental, geographical elements to become a strong economic and geopolitical centre. It has high quality human resources. A vision is requested, a strategic plan and, above all, a belief in the potential, history and prospects of its country and its citizens. The degree of success of this major national objective depends on all of us. I think we'll finally make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u112	In Mr Staikora's time I calculated the holidays. Don't everybody claim the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, the speaker's registration system has been closed. There is a reason for that, Mr President, for an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u113	Madam President, I did not ask for the floor to answer Mr Stakoura. First, I will await Mr Vorides' speech if he will respond to the social market economy. I know that he has been a militant supporter of the social market economy for many years now. When he answers, then I'll answer. I would just like to say on the amendment to the ENPY. The amendment stipulates that Article 1, in particular for 2018, takes into account the new objective values identified in the Ministerial Decision and not the values that applied up to 1-1-2018. The limit of the first scale of the main EMI tax is increased from EUR 500 to EUR 550 and the third scale from EUR 1,000 to EUR 1.050. These changes achieve an increase in the number of zones subject to a lower scale. The duty-free limit for HISPI's additional tax by EUR 50 000 is increased, that is, from EUR 200,000 to EUR 250,000. It is laid down that the payment of the ENVY will be made in at least five monthly instalments per year, with a final instalment on the last working day of the month of the following year. The other provisions are for the new group within the Ministry's General Secretariat for Economic Policy, which will monitor prices in the future. I don't think I need to tell you. You're reading them. I don't think that's very important. This was filed...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u114	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u115	Do you want to talk about the social market economy too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u116	Why not, Minister? You don't have the socially sensitive monopoly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Voridis will be speaking. I'll be very happy to hear how she understands, how she thinks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u118	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u119	What do you want, Mr. Stakoura?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u120	I would just like to ask you this: Please literally since yesterday...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u121	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u122	Yesterday we asked the Undersecretary to give us an image to inform us, because in your press release you said how much HNVIA will increase to a million citizens, but you do not say how much HNVIA will be reduced to about a half and a half million citizens. After he told us at the beginning that the press release is in place, then he admitted that there are no one in the press release. Then he told us that because it was too late at night and they were tired, they didn't have the evidence to tell us. Can you tell us to the citizens who will reduce HPAI, how much will each citizen be reduced?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u123	Let me look at it and get it for you the afternoon I talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u124	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u125	Let go, Mrs. Bakoyannis. He'll bring the evidence and you'll be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u126	I want to say something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u127	To what the minister said. What else?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u128	Madam President, the Minister gave me the honour yesterday to refer to me. I just wanted to ask him: do you realize exactly what you are doing, Mr Chakaloto? I now read in iefimerida.gr that you have exempted and changed the zones in the remote regions. You had not received any news that you had increased the EVH even in the smaller islands and in mountainous areas. I don't read anything about Athens' working districts. I don't read anything about Drapetson, I don't read anything about Zephyri, I don't read anything about Perama, I don't read anything about the areas that I told you yesterday that HNPH's prices are coming up, and you ironed me in my absence. First, please very much when I'm away from being sarcastic, because I don't like it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u129	I didn't iron for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u130	Secondly, these areas today do not have the volume of trade, which allows you to decide that you need to increase the zone price. So as you understood in 'almost five' that you had to get rid of the zones - tell your State Secretary - in the remote areas, in the mountain areas and in the islands, I would ask you to do the same for the regions of western Athens and the second region, which are extremely problematic.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u131	That, Mrs Bakoyannis, could you say in your speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u132	I'll talk to you again, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u133	How many times do we have to talk to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u134	You don't understand. You want to repeat many times!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u135	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u136	Madam President, I would like the floor for 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u137	Here, Mr. Chakaloto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u138	First of all, I have several witnesses here that I didn't iron for you. I said you would be amazed at the results that will be at HISA, and I promise you that you will be amazed - and now I tell you - for the poor neighbourhoods of Athens. You'll see how much it goes up in an area of Athens. The exceptions are extremely small. It's one or two exceptions coming up, where they have a house next to the subway. That's all. I would like to say again, however, that I have never been ironic to you. And I think I have witnesses about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make some clarifications. First there was a program for the interventions of the main ministers that defined them after 12: 00. This cannot be the case because the opposition to unconstitutionalism has been mediated. As a result, the speeches of the rapporteurs will be completed, and then they will be known, every two, etc. Secondly, to keep it all in mind - if I knew it, I would have interrupted Mr Stakoura - a hundred and thirty-three Members have written it. As you can see, the time has to be observed unregulated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u140	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u141	The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u142	Madam President, I am taking the floor to put forward a purely legislative improvement. A mistake has been made and instead of 'three verses' in Article 29, the right to write, namely 'four verses'. I'm putting it out for the Minutes to share with colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u144	Madam President, I think you have given the opportunity and an exchange of views on the amendment tabled by Mr Tsakalotos earlier. I had raised the question of whether we would be able to discuss the amendments separately. You told me, no. Do you understand from the debate that we have to place separately on the amendments now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u145	No, you knew that. Nothing new happened. You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u146	So you have given the floor for dialogue, but you do not give it the floor to discuss separately the major issue concerning the objective values throughout Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u147	All right, it's all major. You guys now, if you want to exhaust your dentistry, too...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u148	It is all very important, but above all, Madam President, it is the sensitivity and democratic perception of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u149	Why are you yelling now? Do what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u150	And I am sorry that you personally have elements of democratic sensitivity and must not behave in this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u151	Are you questioning me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u152	So we are now entering, ladies and gentlemen, under the shaft of urgency in the debate. We are also waiting for the agreement signed by Mr. Tsipras and that is tearing up this whole debate of a bill with commitments, because this agreement concerns commitments that appear to have problems on a large national issue. I hope, in fact, that he will come to Greek. However, I would like to remind the House that yesterday in the debate on the bill the committees were raised and that the committees - with the agreement of Mr Balaura, the majority rapporteur - the supplementary memorandum on which this bill is based - and not only, but also other memorandums - should be translated, Madam President. I would ask you, therefore, to ask for the truth of my words the Bureau of committees, namely Mrs Kafantaris, who is here, Mr Balaura and Mr Manios. In fact, because I did not see the decision taken by the committees being translated here, and because, obviously, the government and the Minister responsible, Mr Tsakalots, have no sensitivity whatsoever, I am referring to you, to your personal democratic sensitivity - I am tabling this in the Minutes - and I am asking the services of this House to be translated. If, in fact, the House does not have translators, we will send it to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs translators and you will keep our expenses from being paid. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But this situation of the government is bound by texts in English which do not appear on the Ministry of Finance's'site', so that Greek citizens and majority Members of the majority who do not know English - and I know too many - can learn it. And overthrow it! Ladies and gentlemen, following yesterday's debate, I now come to note that, unfortunately, the government's majority is still living in delusion. He made a mention of the majority rapporteur in the fraudsters in the first half of 2015, to come to the commitments they made with a third and unnecessary memorandum and now say that with this bill we are coming out of the memoranda. None of this is more false, because it is precisely this bill that we are discussing that has long-standing commitments that concern not only primary surpluses until 2022, but also the freezing of public property by mortgage until 2115. Yesterday, Mr. Regling and Mr. Moscovici said here in Athens that strict surveillance, enhanced surveillance, tight surveillance will continue. Pick whatever term you want. However, it will be something different from what is happening in all the other countries of Europe, especially those that were in memoranda and that came out of the memoranda. Greece is therefore treated as a special case. That is why there is no clear exit. In fact, we will have two or three evaluations a year or so. But is it possible for the government to claim that we are going to a clean exit, when this country is obliged, with the commitments made by the government, by 2022, to have 57 billion primary surpluses that reach, that is, up to 5.1% of GDP in 2022, when growth from 2019 onwards will fall from 2.4% to 1.8% of GDP? Is anyone sure, ladies and gentlemen, that these growth rates, as planned, will be implemented, as will the IMF, as will the report on regional economies, European economies, but also the medium-term ones if we compare them and the budget report say that what the government each time goes down by at least 50%? The Budget Council estimates these growth estimates as over-optimistic and says that private consumption that maintains growth by 70% is falling to 2022 close to 1.4%. So an over-optimistic assessment of growth is being cultivated. There is the theorem of overcrowding, which means that you will continue as a government to remove resources from the real economy with taxes, contributions and cuts. What, ladies and gentlemen, are the cuts in the medium term? The medium-term cuts are 5.2 billion. This is about cuts in pensions, it is about increasing tax. And the government tells us that we do not read the table with measures and countermeasures well, because the countermeasures in the same period are, to about 4 billion and, of course, there is, as you all know, no sensitivity to dealing with the issue of value added tax on the islands, where the reduced rates are abolished at the end of the month in which we are going. On the contrary, there's a sensitivity to the tax on advertising, the one you celebrated then, when you put him, that you're hitting the interests then. So we have a negative impact on measures and countermeasures. He made an effort yesterday by Mr. Juliarakis to tell us that we did not read the forward application of the countermeasures in 2017. But if we look at the medium-term tables, we have exceeded a surplus in 2017, 4,20,000,000 euros. I note that this is after the calculation of the government's social surplus of some 700 million. We therefore remove resources from the economy, from the taxpayers, from the pensioners, who will lose up to three pensions to give some counter-duty to a pre-election strategy. This is the one reality of the commitments and burdensome arrangements in the bill that we are discussing. The other unfavourable aspect of this bill is, ladies and gentlemen, what Mr Loverdes has previously developed in the report on unconstitutionality, the mortgage on public property. The mortgage on public property is about the fact that this government for the first time...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Loverdos didn't say a mortgage. He was very careful, I think.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u154	I'm a mortgage.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u155	I said guarantee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u156	He was very careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u157	It's okay. We accept that you will correct us. So, ladies and gentlemen, we come to this House, from this majority and from this government, what has not happened historically in our country. The institutions, the troika at that time, had asked us to create a fund of some 50 billion, not to put a mortgage but to be able to manage public property. We saw the danger, we prevented it. The government accepted it. He came here, brought the law, put it over ninety years, voted against it, in a way played the House, because at first he had created the Public Participation Company, which was supposed to make use of the state's ownership register, and then modified its own law and incorporated this entire equity directly into the fund. The fund, which signifies what I say a mortgage and the Minister says is a guarantee, has in the hands the shares of public enterprises, the waters, PPC, the "TRAINOSE", which he takes every day with new laws. That's what we're assuming of our debt. This is unprecedented historical. Mr. Dertilis, who has written the book about the seven wars and the five bankruptcys, will obviously add the sixth case, which I imagine will be studied by students and undergraduates and graduates as a very special case and will have a hundred years to study and draw conclusions. This is the result of this act. This is therefore a second very Italian acceptance on the part of the government of a request by the ESM. Because the explanatory statement states that this has been done on request. It was not provided for in the original contract and the government is trying to justify the unjustified. The third, also binding on the country, is the commitment of the reserves, which also suffers from unconstitutionality. The presidents of the CEDEFOP, the regions, hospitals and other bodies said yesterday. Apart from the fact that they also have own resources that are not part of the budget. Why are we committing the reserves, ladies and gentlemen? In order to be able in the election cycle not to borrow from the markets, because we have not created the conditions for safe exit without being exposed. That's the whole script. And underneath this is the new vocabulary of the clean exit. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another memorial to this bill. It has the delivery to the funds, for example, without any notice of red business loans. It has overturns in the law of PASOK, Law 3869/2010, to protect the first residence. It has a regulation on collective bargaining and arbitration, which was condemned yesterday not only by the workers, that is, by the GFCM, but also by the Association of Trade Unions, because they said we were going with the strongest when the government told us that it was also implementing the request for collective bargaining. It has the provisions on drug that converts pharmacy to collectors. It has a lot of other memoranda, which the government is trying to pass as positive, but I also told the committees that even where it is going to do something positive, it does it half-cooled, because the extrajudicial you know that it has not done so, the IMF and the institutions say that we are champions in red loans, there is no liquidity and the government cannot resolve this issue and will not solve it with the provisions it brings. As also, in the same way, it cannot solve the question of incentives for growth by means of provisions for the reduction of the contribution for young workers. So because, ladies and gentlemen, the President said that it would be strict from now on, I will end by tabling page 74 and page 8 of the government's holistic programme in the Minutes. And I would ask that they be handed over to Mr. Petropoulos, whom I asked yesterday when he would cut off pensions and say "peripherals" to me! In the medium term, and here too, it is very clear that the government intends to reduce pension expenditure by 4.4% of GDP, when the government itself estimates that pension expenditure has been cut by 6.5 points in the months 2010 to 2016. I give it to you to make comparisons and not to lie to the world that you will not cut pensions and that the “others who tortured you were the bad ones while we are the good ones.” [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The 'bads', therefore, had the pension expenditure at 17% of GDP, and you'll take it to 12%. This is the result, read it in the official texts. And I'm ending up with a word about HNPH, 'cause I'm not gonna get back on to Stepma again, it looks like. Ladies and gentlemen, I made a rough sampling in some areas of Elijah. It is EUR 50 to increase the objective values. The 50 euros in one hundred square blocks is 5,000 euros. If we go to the second factor, which is 2.8%, it makes a difference of about 140 euros. We have raised the matter since yesterday. Are you going to give us analytical paintings or are you going to mock the world? And, in any case, Mr Tsakalotos was a rapporteur for the ENPI as opposition. I think he remembers - he is younger than me, his memory has not given up - what he said at the time about HIS VIA. Neither did you abolish it and, unfortunately, you are not just continuing it, but you continue to load additional burdens on ordinary people. And I'm ending with that phrase. When we put the additional tax on more than 300,000, it came the'summers' government and lowered the additional tax to 200,000, that is to say, to pay the poorest. And now he's been taking it from 200,000 to 250,000. She's correcting her evil self. That is what you are doing and, unfortunately, as I said, they will continue the deadlocks if the political connections do not change, another government that can negotiate otherwise all these burdensome commitments for the country. Thank you, Madam President, for the slightest tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-three students and students and four educational attendants from the 76th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Karakostas also has the floor for twelve minutes unless he wants to use his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u159	Just a few years ago, in this Chamber, those who are sitting in the cabinet today cried out every time the government brought memorial measures that "democratic legitimacy is being dismantled" and "national treason is taking place". Those who were then protesting, and rightly did, bring to power since 2015, and until now similar memorial measures of equal or even greater cruelty have been brought by their predecessors. This government, however, does not simply bring and vote for anti-grassroots, memorial measures, but much more attempts to fade the voice of a respected part of the Greek people, which is growing, and which is represented here since the Golden Dawn. In this direction, the President of Parliament has only recently intervened during the plenary sessions and has argued that it is unacceptable to use such designations as "national betrayal" and "protagonists". These designations, of course, were not treated unilaterally by the Golden Dawn, but were already used by Members of the parties of Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos, some of whom are ministers today. We would therefore understand, even in part, the intervention of the President of Parliament, whether it really intended to preserve a so-called level of discussion. This would, however, presuppose the public reliance of the members of the government and their public apology towards their predecessors, which, of course, did not happen. Merkel's "German gypsies" and "in the four" were directed by members of the current government, of course, when they were in opposition. Now as a government, the only thing that changed is that the German germans became Merkel stallions, but Merkel's stallions also fall to four. Therefore, the President of Parliament and in substance the coup d'état, i.e. the parties SYRIZA and ANEL, are not interested in the law or wrong, in the justified or unjustness of the designations. But, obviously, they are interested in not addressing these designations to their Government. However, what they blamed on their predecessors also applies to them. And the fact that the Bureau of Parliament, acting as the government's component, imposes the bans and threat of persecution and fines, does not rebut reality. The fact that you are banning us from calling for it does not mean that there is no national treason, for which only Tsipras - Kammenos and the Members of the government are now responsible. The case of the bill, which we are discussing, belongs, whether you like it or not, to this category. In the category, namely, of those instruments that are voted not for the benefit of - supposedly - the sovereign Greek people, but for the benefit of foreign and domestic bankers, which we will prove below. I cannot, however, comment on what I have heard from the SYRIZA rapporteur at committee meetings. In order to avoid the unpleasant position to try to explain and prove what is the benefit of the measures which his party is voting for for our compatriots, he began to invite the MPs of the Vice-President not to protest because he claimed that a large number of European officials, the lenders, in other words, congratulates the Government of Tsipras - Kammenos on its achievements. Wherever achievements are achieved, put the permanent poverty of the Greek people and the sale of public property. However, this argument can give rise to the New Democracy, the Memorandum of Understanding. It does not, however, have the slightest power over the country's third political power towards the Golden Dawn. Allow me, then, as at the first meeting in the competent committees, to use a phrase from Lenin on 'usable immorales' to demonstrate the real role of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, and now to use a phrase again to answer the argument of the SYRIZA rapporteur. And to avoid misunderstandings, I call on Lenin and his words not because I have him in no particular respect, but because he is the only language the Bolsheviks understand. So Lenin said: “Tell me who intervened, to tell you what mistakes you made.” The people of SYRIZA, for people like Junger, Moscovisi, Merkel, banker McCron, neo-democratic Commissioner of the European Union, Mr Avramopoulos, then according to Lenin you have not just made mistakes, but you have made real crimes. Lenin, too, had said something else. "It is an old truth that in politics you often have to learn from the enemy." To be taught, gentlemen of the government, he did not say to be their servant and agents, which you, of course, did not understand. And that's why you should probably sit back in the chests of the NYPD. But let us leave the Bolsheviks in their mausoleum and deal with the wastes of Communism, who govern Greece, to see some of the most indicative measures, which tomorrow are to vote for the good of the Greek people and especially the financially weak! The medium-term framework of the Financial Strategy 2019-2022 provides a surplus for 2018 of 3.5% of GDP, which will gradually reach the year 2022 to 5.19% of GDP. It's a philosophical measure. It is a pity that in 2022 you will not be in the positions you are today and you will be triumphant in order for the last Greek to pass, who will be affected by the measures that you will be voting on, to spit you out. And you have the courage to celebrate the expected surplus of 2022 and you even claim that this surplus gives you a financial space to proceed quickly with benefits. But what do you call provision? You call the completion of pensions and wages to catch a Memorandum target and then give a tip. And what tip? What the bosses allow you to throw on the hungry as a bone. No, gentlemen. Social policy is to return to the Greek people the stolen, to the Greeks what you did not give them, but it is a reward for their labor and work, and for you to bear your poor benefits, your gift. Poor allowances which will ultimately receive too few Greeks, but too many illegal immigrants and Roma. And you will, of course, hide behind the fairy tale of anti-racism and solidarity. But no one takes you seriously anymore. Because it is your government that exercises a very racist policy at the expense of the Greeks. And let us put aside the benefits that you give to the economically weak Greeks, but they are received by the Roma and illegal immigrants. We read to expand the Ministry of Migration Policy. And well, for the memorials you found the candy that you were blackmailed by the lenders and you compromised. With the covetous of money you give the illegal immigrants what exactly is going on? Are the refugees blackmailing you too? You have to bear witness to them yourself. ‘Association for extension to all regions of the country and continued application of the subsidised rental scheme for the residence of asylum seekers with possible implementation of this programme, if necessary in the medium to long term for refugees’. Really, anti-racists. A Greek family, which lives under the limits of poverty, can join the subsidised apartment rental programs or are the criteria of choice racistly against the Greeks? So to finish with your unwilling hypocrisy, when the Golden Dawn becomes a government of this country, the Ministry of Migration Policy will be renamed Ministry of Social Policy, which will ensure that it joins the subsidised rental program and the last economically weak Greek family. But, of course, the government of the Communists of SYRIZA and Kammens is not being held to legislate for the benefit of the Greek people. According to the provisions of the bill under discussion, the surplus and its reserves are guaranteed to repay up to EUR 25 billion from the country's credit obligations to creditors. Is the public, that is, the property, even the property, which will be acquired in the future by the divestments? Selling? You red people call it the use of public property - it'll go directly to the lenders. If this does not relieve poor people's layers, what will relieve them? But is it enough for our good government only to do this? Oh, no. Because she works endlessly for the good of the people, she obliges all her bodies to transfer their reserves to the Bank of Greece. And who controls and effectively runs the Bank of Greece? The one who runs and controls the Supreme Court, our charitable lenders, who say so well about the Tsipra - Kammenos government, as the SYRIZA rapporteur has said and proudly said. It is a great pleasure to list the philosophical measures of the government of the Communists of SYRIZA and of Kammenos's companions. We are going to another topic: a five-year retroactive lifting of banking confidentiality is being introduced as a condition of subjection to the Katseli Act - as amended - and the obligation to inform debtors of non-performing loans within 12 months before they are sold to the funds, as was the case until now only for non-cooperative borrowers. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] It now applies to all borrowers and the Government of Tsipras - Kammenos managed to transform the funds, which it described as 'brows', into innocent'sparrows'. They deserve warm congratulations to the Left Government and its companion! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] No, under no circumstances are you traitors of the people, you are social fighters. But we're not done yet. The social fighters of the Left and of the escort have long maintained the necessity of class war. They became government and decided to implement what they promised in the poor people’s masses, fighting capital and contractors. How did that happen? Listen. Increasing the cost of tolls on the Egnatia Road by 150%. Measuring comrades! You said to fight them, not wipe them out! And you've got the nerve of the so-called social fighters of the cobbled and of the mortar, you left-wings, the charlatans of the fucker and the laughter of the lenders, to characterize us, the nationalists, as capital ribbons. As pupils of capital, then, we golden people are voting against your shameful bill, which unleashes home to loan sharks and delivers the blood of Greek taxpayers to bankers and contractors. Finally, I could of course not refer to the question of the betrayal of Macedonia by the Tsipras - Kammenos government. On this matter, my Chief will be extensively mentioned. The blood that was acquired in the battlefields cannot be sold out with the signatures of your government. I would point out to the Greek people Article 120 of the Constitution, the nominated article of the Constitution, paragraph 4, which states: "Continuing the Constitution depends on the patriotism of the Greeks who are entitled to and are obliged to resist by any means, against anyone who tries to destroy it by force." The Communists of SYRIZA and the companions of Kammenos, since you do not respect the will of the Greek people, it is time to fear it. Macedonia alone!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u160	We proceed with the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor. I'll put you in normal time and from there on, you can make use of your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, during the debate and the multi-project in committees, government claims that austerity is ending, that there are no other anti-grassroots measures, that countermeasures if they are not greater than measures are at least equivalent. And if the countermeasures really have no neutral impact, then why do you take the measures and the countermeasures once they are neutral socially? There's no reason. Don't take the measures that reduce pensions and taxfree, so you don't get the countermeasures. But the measures and countermeasures are not socially neutral, but they are making a redistribution from the least poor to the impoverished, that is, you are asking the least poor to pay for the survival of the impoverished, which has led them to impoverished your policy, and the current government and the previous governments, and, of course, the capitalist system itself, which is unfair, because it accumulates socially produced wealth into less and less and less hands. But let's put aside the Syrian mathematics and let's see the real elements, your elements, as they are included in the plan and in the medium term. So what do you say in the medium term? That from 1-1-2019 pensioners will lose 2.9 billion euros. That's what Table A says on page 380. What is derived from Table B of page 395? That insurance funds will give pensions of less than EUR 3.2 billion in 2019, that is, from EUR 28.7 billion that they will give in 2018, in 2019 they will give EUR 25.5 billion. Is that a reduction in the mid-term? It's 11%. If we translate this 11%, then there is an average loss of 1.3 pensions for each pensioner. That's what's coming up. At least. The math thing. So what will be the result of this intervention? That the cash result of the insurance funds for 2019 will be spread - that's what your table says on page 395- of EUR 457,000 in 2018 at 3,3 billion. The cash result will be realised. So this cash result - that is, the positive result obtained through the reduction of pensions - is essentially 44% of the primary surplus for 2019, which, based on your table on page 386 is EUR 7.5 billion. Who, then, pays on the substance for the bloody primary surplus of 2019? Pensioners through pension reductions. Let's go to 2020 now. What's going on? Not only are pensions reduced and still reduced, but duty-free is reduced. What is predicted to benefit you? EUR 1.9 billion is planned. This is illustrated by table A of page 380. So duty-free will be reduced from EUR 1,900 to EUR 1,250, which means that today a employee or pensioner without a child has a tax free of EUR 8,630. This will be reduced to 5,685 euros. In other words, those with a salary or a pension of more than EUR 470 will pay a tax once the tax is abolished. So for a pensioner of EUR 700 - let me remain on this example - his pension for 2019 will be tax-free, while 2020 will pay a tax of EUR 550. So another pension less. How many have we lost? At least two pensions will be lost in 2020 by a pensioner of EUR 700. So, in total for 2020, your contributions, both from pension cuts and tax-free, will result in EUR 4.9 billion, as is shown by the table on page 380. So let's go now to the table on page 381. How much will the primary surplus be for 2020? It's gonna be 8.2 billion. In other words, 60% of the primary surplus for 2020 will come from reductions in pensions and tax. Here's the result of your class policy. How? The evidence says so, Minister. It's simple. With simple actions that at least a primary school student can do. "Syrian" mathematics can't do these acts. So what is the basis on which? It appears that for the four years 2019-2022, the measures in the medium term will lead to a cumulative loss of EUR 18,5 billion. The 12.5 will come from the pensions and 6 will come from the tax reduction. And if we compare it to the figures of last year's medium-term - your medium-term - these measures are increased by EUR 1.2 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u162	I explained it with paintings.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u163	Leave that, I heard it very well, Minister. As the countermeasures are predicted, it will be for this medium-term debate that we are discussing 14 billion, which is reduced from last year to 5.5 billion. But that's not real either. Because with 3,2 billion of the countermeasures you directly support the business groups. There will be 1.2 billion from strengthening their investment projects, 1 billion from subsidising jobs through active employment programmes and 1 billion from reducing the tax rates for legal persons. What do we have here, Ministers? We have a redistribution of wealth from the less poor for the benefit of business groups, for the benefit of the capitalists. So you're telling the fewer poor to pay the capitalists. Do you know what this is called in Greek, Mr. Ministers? It's called analgesia! Analgesia is called this thing. And you present it as a countermeasure. There are, of course, other changes that you are bringing to the multi-brand plan, such as the changes in the Katseli Act, which further exacerbate the slim preconditions, in order for someone to join the Katseli Act, but also to protect the first residence. Because, in the name of you, the treatment of strategic malpractices is abolished, without setting any limit to the amount of savings, to the amount of deposits, when it is known that the determination of instalments includes not only income but also all assets. What's the result? To increase the instalments that will be called to pay, while with similar settings it comes out of protection automatically, if it has not paid three instalments, without taking into account actual data that may have led him to inability to pay. There are other serious things like, for example, the changes you make to the EDPS. They are changes that will not only lead to new reductions in the supplementary pensions of journalists and press technicians, who are members of the EDPS, but also to further reductions in health benefits, thus speeding up the process either the EDEAP closes and transfer to the Single Assistance Insurance Fund or become a professional fund. And at the same time what do you do with the medium term? Do you remember when you said a number of people from the government majority that we are fighting corruption and struggling between canalarchs and political parties? Do you remember when you said there was no TV licenses for free? What are you talking about? You say you'll get 3.5 million a year from every television licence. That's what you're saying. Five licences were auctioned. In five years, then, you will get roughly 88 million euros. What do you give the five-year-old in the medium term to the canalarchs? You give EUR 103 million from the tax reduction in advertising expenditure. You're giving them more than 15.5 million. So how much are you gonna get them? Don't take them any more if you're going to take them that way, giving them and subsidising them from above! Of course, what is the red line that passes through the multi-brand plan is the subjection of all to the ultimate objective - you have brought it to a supreme objective - to shield the competitiveness of business groups, to support investment, in other words, to satisfy capitalist profitability and its armour. As are the changes that you bring to the labour market, through which the BSE requirements are met. BSE says in the press releases, asks for press releases, demands that you stand clarine and implement these BSE requirements. What was the basic requirement of BSE after all the anti-virals that have passed? To reduce non-wage costs. What did you do with the plan? You reduce the non-wage costs, when you say that they are deducted from the company's gross income, so the company's taxable income, the total employers' contributions to the insurance funds increased by 50% for a five-year period, if you hire a new employee with full working hours. The BSE crisis has reduced the non-wage costs and you have rushed to implement it. As in other issues such as the redefinition of minimum wages in the comparators of competitiveness, productivity, economic stagnation and the level of unemployment. So it's the wages for the unemployed? And a number of other issues which are included and which are too many. I come to other measures that support the requirements of capital. You reduce by 50% and 70% for 2019 and 2020 the charge to electricity suppliers for the private account of RES, while keeping the account charges unchanged to public households. Is this not a gift to the producers and suppliers of the RES, which many of them are literally translated? You're giving them millions of euros. You provide for a simplification of the authorisation procedure by means of simple notification, with ex post sampling checks, as to whether the hygiene and safety measures are complied with, whether public health and the environment is protected. They're not going to be protected. Are these photographic provisions in Article 70 relating to land use changes related to cassettes in Keracini and Perama? Maintain the cassettes more? In Perama, indeed, for which you made a decision that the objective values in dwellings are increasing by 20%, that's where they live - right? - the shipowners, bankers, industrialists. And the objective value of the poorest populaces is increasing by 20% to pay above HUNPIA. Here's your policy class! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And of course, with the multi-brand plan with a number of provisions to speed up the privatisation of GEOSE, energy, the "Greek" with the provisions of the first articles, you safeguard the interests of the lenders by subscribing to the ESS the real estate of the public of EUR 25 billion. So what comes out of the multi-brand plan and from the medium-term, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing but the fact that the people are not going to come out of the memorials, the anti-grass attack is not going to have an end date, because the primary 'blooded' surpluses will reach 2060 and we see, but above all, why all you subdue them to the altar of competitiveness and capitalist profitability. The development you say in the world will be an unjust development, because it is just as unfair as the system is, but you too have adopted and made all the anti-corruption measures of the New Democracy and of PASOK by the Brutsis Act and all the other laws. So what is confirmed by the plan is that SYRIZA along with the ANELs came to do the dirty work, that is to say, to complete the anti-grassy, anti-corruption work of the New Democracy and PASOK and not just this. On the substance you must agree to be also signifiers of NATO and of the European Union, in implementing their designs literally such as in the Western Balkans by joining these imperialist organisations. In this context, include the agreement with Skopje. This agreement and their accession to NATO and the European Union lead the region to destabilisation, does not respond to alutism and cultivates and strengthen nationalism. From this point of view, ladies and gentlemen, it is now a given development. There is no way out for the benefit of the people in the support of the system. The choice is not between Scylla - today's coexistence - and Harriet - the coexistences and governments of previous years and their parties. The choice is for the people today to stand up for the roadblock, to organize their struggle to prevent the position from deteriorating, to restore loss, but above all to target the real opponent the capitalist system, capitalist profit and capitalist business, which are the source, the cause of all the problems and sufferings that the working people live in. Only through this struggle can there be a way out for the benefit of the people when it overthrows them all and takes power into his hands. So it is clear that the JRC is voting against the multi-billion and medium-term. We will also ask for a roll-call vote in principle and on the articles relating to the medium term, but also for the transfer of the EUR 25 billion guarantees to the ESS and any other articles. We'll see and look at them along the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u164	Good. Before Mr Papachristopoulos takes the floor, I will give the floor for a few minutes to the Minister for some legislative improvements. Here, Mr. Chakaloto, you have the time. I don't give you time, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u165	I'll only need a minute and a half, Mr. President. The first legislative improvement is about what I told you this morning about the changes to HNVIA that there will be a new body in the Ministry of Finance looking at the objective values from now on. It also clarifies which persons with mobility will come from either the General Secretariat of Economic Policy or the General Secretariat of the Public Property. The second relates to the debate we have had, Mr Tindemans, on whether I understood or did not understand and what I said we would try to deal with. At this point it says that the arrangements of this Article for the Greek Parliament shall be without prejudice to the second paragraph. I think you'll agree. The third legislation is in Article 114 in the provisions on the CFS. It explains how when it has a share share rate in a financial institution more than 33% the right to vote will go to the CFS and there will be an agreement between the CFS and the CFSF on how these rights will be exercised. That's the legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u166	To testify, Minister, to share.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u167	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u168	Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u169	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u170	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u171	Minister, did I fully understand what you last said about a shareholder agreement for the exercise of voting rights?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u172	The FBI isn't listed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u173	Are you referring to bank shares, or did I get it wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u174	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u175	Oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u176	EFKA has a percentage in a financial institution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u177	Let's not waste any more time. Let legal improvements be shared. Here will be my colleagues, and if further clarification is needed, I will give you the floor, Minister. You have the floor, Mr. Papachristopoulos. It applies to you as to the time of dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. For the last three or four days I want to say a good one, when I saw the Minister of Labour going down to Manola for four hundred people who have no fate in the sun, who burned everything, who have no union, who have nothing. I was particularly pleased to see the Minister of Labour with her partners coming down and commit to these people, the land workers, who do not have a destiny in the sun. Let me say a good one to the newly elected Prime Minister of Spain. A ship of sixty - seventy economic migrants did not accept Malta and Italy. Sanchez accepted them in Spain. And for those who have a stronger memory, let me say that the last survey shows Sanchez to rise. It is around 25%, after what happened at the conservative party in Spain, Mr Rahoi's party, when a case of corruption has been on the surface for twenty years. We'll see what happens. That's as an introduction. I say we put a little bit of things in place, as it seems to be. I have said many times, without being an expert on economics, that a prerequisite to achieving everyday life is macro-economic. We need to improve the macro-economy, all these indicators, so that we can get to everyday life. And I have no hesitation to admit that a large part of Greek society, today, is still suffering and it's a very big part. I would also like to remind you that over the last thirty years something has happened and the country has gone bankrupt. I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber who does not recognize that the country has gone bankrupt. I have never heard of any self-criticism about this. I hear a lot of people smiling from morning to night that, for example, it is the SYRIZA - Independent Greek government that is responsible for three and a half years. I don't know how reliable this argument seems to those who hear it. I believe that is not and that is evidence of at least all the elements of the macro-economic process. I would also like to remind you that something is changing in Europe. For the first time, Mrs Merkel presented a development plan against the austerity of Shoeble. It may not completely embrace the opinion of McCrone, the view of France, but there is a convergence somewhere. There's still something going on in southern Europe. After Portugal, we also saw Spain. Greece was the first to teach. And desperately, Juncker said: “Don’t do it again. You trampled the dignity of the Greeks. Don't do it with other countries. Stop it.’ Something changes in southern Europe and Italy. When he tried to force an old IMF acquaintance, he didn't pass. That's how he learned. Somehow this has learned the constitution - forgive me the expression - of the market, because the constitution of each country says other things. People vote and they choose who the Prime Minister and the ministers will be. Until now, unfortunately, that was someplace relaxed. In other words, we have seen some changes that are positive and I think we are obliged to show them. Let's go to today. I shall mention three - four figures not much. Only in April were 870 million banks, which shows confidence. The capital controls that some are trying to load on to this government - one of the great lies - have almost expired. When the possibility of commitments is 5,000 euros, it is almost over. But nobody's talking about it. That means trust in the banking system. The ten-year bonds with all that happened in Italy went up a little bit. I think they deviate day after day. In an interview that the Deputy Minister of Labour recently gave with figures that eleven reductions were made in pensions, but from morning to night we hear about cuts in incredible 30% -40%. In these eleven cuts, therefore, some ECU 45 billion were deducted. Look for how many billions have been deducted from this government’s reduction and compare numbers. Eleven times 45 billion and then one and a half to be clear about two billion. There is still no mention of new jobs. We have forgotten about 'ERGANIS'. We have eight thousand jobs in May, new ones. I don't know if all the world actors in Greece have conspired. If they've conspired, what can I say? Whose ability is that? I heard objections about the emergency. You all know very well that the debt will be discussed on 21 June. We do not know yet, the IMF dilemma has not yet been solved, even though we see that it will probably have a decorative role. The IMF reminds you that it is what it imposed and the reduction of the pensions that it was voted on and the reduction of tax. There will be no IMF or there will be no such drastic role, with what this implies. But we have more to say in this regard. Fighting made them say about an exit weird. There's no such thing as that. All official factors, at least the institutions, do not confirm that. This exit will be clean. Does anyone triumph? No, nobody. I heard Euclid Tsakalotus provoke him for Mr. Bouras to answer. We didn't tell him we were gonna eat gold spoons, that it's all pomegranate. There are problems. But we have a greater degree of freedom, even though surveillance will be a little harder, because public debt is huge, and that is what we will use. I believe that a new reality is formed and some people do not want it or wish something opposite. Their right. I would like to refer again to the famous article 109, which has become a point of reference from too many opposition parties: 'Knowledge', 'Support the country', etc. A similar guarantee was made in 2012. Anyone who wants to can overthrow. I can give him what exactly happened in 2012 to other governments not of course SYRIZA - Independent Greeks. I read to you that the loan contract ratified in Parliament on 14 August 2015 had a majority of two hundred and twenty-two votes. Mr Chakalotos told you this again today. Do you have amnesia? And you voted for this thing. With regard to the issue of the fund - I call it Greek Participation and Property Company, it has predominantly been called the Supreme Court - some of you have amnesia. What's wrong with them? Chakaloto's right. You voted for it. Two hundred twenty-two! I would like to remind you of three things with numbers and with a lot of clarity. First, when was the last time the country developed? Can any of those who make easy opposition remind me of it? This year is 2%. 2019 will be 2.4%. They call it international organizations. It's not arbitrary numbers we put together. 2020 will be 2.3%, 2021 2.1% and 2022 1.8%. Average about 2.1%. Is this development that we didn't have, that we couldn't get out of the market? It's an important parameter. We'll analyze it more if I have time. The second important thing is to see unemployment. Because that's where the numbers are talking. What I'm saying doesn't matter. I can say what I want. You who knew the market so well, how did you get unemployment to 27% and at some point 28%? How did it happen? Have you given an answer for this? You're saying you're playing the market in five fingers. Good. I don't notice the title of extremist neoliberal. As a liberal, you didn't know her, you missed her. It's one of the three components of bankruptcy. Along with the debt which, from 120% of GDP, reached 180% of GDP - we will see it a little below - unemployment was also. So listen to what is foreseen for unemployment so that I don't eat time. We expect a fall of 18.2%, 16.6%, 15.4% and 2022 14.3%. Is it over-optimism? Is it something unreal? Oh, no. It's already happening. In three years, seven units were reduced. Ordinarily it's currently at 20%, and it's going to come down another one. Does that mean anything to us? Oh, of course. ECA, income, contributions, etc. Third number very important for us to agree: we have received the debt to 180% of GDP. I will plead with you, and you are telling the truth that the debt went to 183% of GDP this year. It was up three units, and indeed my friend Amyras made a hard criticism yesterday, but he is honest. It's not wrong. He went up around 15 billion euros. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. President, how much longer do I have?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u179	You're already getting time from your dentistry. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u180	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You do know that to make the pillow, not to enter the credit line, money is needed. I call it fat. The Minister could explain it to you with much more comfort, etc. What is predicted and not so because we want it, but because the international fora want it? In 2019 170.4% of GDP, in 2020 161.4% of GDP. I'm talking about the debt, which some of you had underestimated. I heard Mr Kefaliannis, your MEP, saying that he is a fairy tale and I was pinching. In 2021 public debt will be 153.1% of GDP and 2022 will be 150.3% of GDP. It was 120% and you took it to 180%. How do you know the market? How did you explain that? We didn't say we were always acquainted. We say that in this four-year period, in the medium term, it will rest a little bit of 120%, and it will deviate further. I would like here to talk a little bit about Mr Juliarakis' speech, because it has not been heard. It's very important, because he talked to you about four myths. I say it straight away. They're not mine. It's finds I heard the Minister say them and I was very pleased to hear them say them. Because it has become a permanent practice of overcoming and inaccurateness, so that I do not use more heavy words. First myth. I completely copy what Mr Juliarakis said. They were written in newspapers 'What surpluses are these?' In fact, they all avoided the previous ones and reached the last surplus that reached 2021 by 5.19%. So does the Minister say - and rightly so - what is our objective? Three-five percent. He's answering if we can catch him, and he can prove it by evidence. What does it mean? That we're giving that away. And they gather around 3.5 billion. I am delighted that our financial credibility is not controlled because we get the 3.5 and more than that and we have it and how to see it. What do I mean? These 3.6 billion will be made available - and we all know - to permanent reductions in taxes, 65%, self-reliance. And about 1.3 billion is about permanent expenditure increases. Let us do this a little more specifically and say this: Investment in human capital. Fight against unemployment. Does anyone have any objections? The significant financial expansion is compatible with the 3.5% target, which is the only objective. Myth number two. That's where everyone's invested. Unnecessary. The world is drowning. From morning to night they have no more, that's what they say from morning to night. And a reduction in pensions. Let's take a look at them. I believe that this too is balanced and overthrown. Did you hear anything about significant reinforcement of policies to combat child poverty? Did you hear anything about a substantial reinforcement of the public investment budget and not just the 29.2 billion? Did you hear anything about a housing allowance, which involves a million thousand citizens? You didn't hear them. Did you still hear the income tax rate from 22% to 20%? Did you hear any personal income tax from 29% to 26%? You didn't hear. There was also a great talk about the ENPIA. 'They will eat us, they will make us.' The treasure's carbon! 10%, 206 million is data. But that's not all. There's a redistribution. Two in three Greeks won't see any difference. A small percentage will pay less and also a small percentage more. Watch out. Much more and nothing more. Myth is a third that became a spice for the 2.9 billion associated with the abolition of the personal difference. I heard it already from Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mrs Ahtsioglou has explained with a lot of detail - here I am speaking for Mrs Ahtsoglou - what is to say a reduction in gross and net. Some do not count on the net reduction, after removing the reduction in tax burdens and the contributions that result from the abolition of personal differences. The net reduction reaches this figure that was 2,9 in 2,081,000. Is 2022 fully balanced by countermeasures? It balances 100%.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have to hang up. You've been talking eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u182	I respect that, Mr President, and thank you. If you want, I'll stop now. Half a word I'll say. I'm done. Has it also sounded too much 'what surpluses are these? You blamed us, you did us" etc. Yes, indeed, it is 3.5% and it would be desirable if these surpluses were to be at 1.% or 2.5%, so that we could have the opportunity for another budgetary policy. But it is not 4.5% for your second programme for many years. I'd like to say one more thing, because it's very important. They are eighteen states and four institutions. If the primary surpluses were significantly lower, there would also be a question of debt sustainability. I'm saying that for those who don't know. However, this is the first time we've had growth. I believe that something really changes, because this money will not go to offshore companies or to economic heavens or to strange banks. We will not have any irregularities in the national defence or in the 'SIEMENS'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u183	Mr. Papachristopoulos, finish it. Don't make me take steps I don't want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u184	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u185	This is the fifth time you have told me 'I'm ending'. Please, close now!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u186	All right, Mr. President. Be well. I'm hanging up now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u187	Listen, ladies and gentlemen. As I said, the rapporteurs - so I found it from Mrs Christodoulopoulos - can abusively use dentistry as well. But beyond that, not half a second. You have registered a hundred thirty-three colleagues. If anyone who comes up this morning at the Stepma is not interested in the rest of us, the President-in-Office is interested. So don't make me close microphones to protect the subsequent Members. Please. It's not pleasant. This time must be observed. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis and Mr Emmanuel Fortsakis are requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u188	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. The Minister will speak tomorrow. There has been a list of Ministers interventions, but they will start at 13.30 p.m. The list of colleagues therefore begins. It goes without saying that the parliamentary representatives at any time of the day want to speak today, can ask for the floor and take their time, because rather today the parliamentary representatives must speak, because tomorrow they are the Heads.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u189	How long will the Members of Parliament have, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u190	The MPs, based on the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, have five minutes' time, because the bill is urgent.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u191	Just five minutes, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u192	Five minutes. Of course, because I'm always in favour of colleagues, because I've felt the bitterness, there'll be a very small tolerance. But time is five minutes. Mr Amyras has the floor now as a special speaker on the part of the river. I give you twelve minutes and it applies to you, i.e. if you want your dentistry, I will not interrupt you until eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President, but I do not think it will be necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, since the drafting of the supplementary memorandum and the answers given by the government, we have learned a great deal. We have learned, for example, that guaranteeing the state-owned property of up to EUR 25 billion is not a pledge. Yesterday with Mr Tsakalotos in the exchange of arguments he told me that there was no mortgage, no pledge, and that is only a guarantee for loans. And I ask, what if the loan isn't paid? Does the Minister not know what the obligations of the guarantor are? Does he not know that at the same time the debt will be paid by the superstition? I really caused Mr Tsakalotos to read in public the insolvency clauses provided for in Article 109. Yesterday I avoided saying it, but I'll say it today. It is the definition of insolvency and of the subordinates of the Tsipras - Kammenos Government, because when the second assessment was closed in May 2016, Mr. Tsakalotos from this here, the Step claimed that the excess will be used only for the use of public property and now Mr. Tsakalotos tells us that it is not a pledge but is a guarantee. Really, Minister, can I take a loan and get you a guarantor and make sure your fortune doesn't come up? Shall we do it like that? But the excesses, ladies and gentlemen, cost us dear. So, listen - and I will present it to the minutes - the announcements and fees of the Supreme Council on 9-10-2017, an advisor's salary with a maximum duration of 40 days, a total budget of EUR 140,000, that is to say, a portion for this UFO adviser, the foreigner, EUR 3.111. I'll give it to you all together for the Minutes. Second Convention, second remuneration of another consultant, on 25-09-2017, was signed, for three months in the pocket of EUR 130,000. Daily quarter, daily fee 1,444 euros. Third consultancy fee on 22-09-2017, for three months this consultant will get 140,000 euros, i.e. 1,555 euros a day. And I don't give you the tens of thousands that I see pass before us as a subsistence fee. I would ask the Members of all the parties in the Minutes to know how the taxpayer of Greece pays the Golden Boys, mainly foreigners, of the UFO. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go down and see something else. The Overseas Supervisory Board, as known, has five members. The two members, the President and one member, shall be appointed by the Troika, the other three shall be appointed by the Minister of Finance with the agreement of the Troika. Look at their payroll. President Jacques Le Papp for seventeen meetings received 34,000 euros, 2,000 euros for the meeting. Do you remember the old advertisement 'Paf and tall'? This is a meeting and a thousand! David Vegara Figheres received 16,000 euros for sixteen meetings, 1,000 euros for the meeting. Mrs Olga Haritou also received EUR 16 000 for sixteen meetings. So did Mr. George Stuboulis. He received 17,000 euros for seventeen meetings. So did Mr. George-Spiros Tavlas. He received 16,000 euros for sixteen meetings. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And you're saying it's okay, they're getting paid for the superstition board, but they're gonna do some work. What's their job? What the title says is a Supervisory Board, that is to say, they must regularly carry out a performance review and evaluation and the Governing Council as a whole for the Overseas Board and separately for each of their members. We have heard from the Supervisory Board since September 2017, ladies and gentlemen. They have not submitted the performance and evaluation report. They have not even submitted the 2017 annual report of the surplus fund. Ladies and gentlemen, the superstate manages state property. Now the superstition has entered up to EUR 25 billion for state-owned property for foreigners, in case we cannot repay a instalment and have not deposited the surplus in 2017? Where's your rebellion, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? The ANELs, of course, get them out of this. You don't want answers? The members of the Supervisory Board are paid, they receive 3,000 euros. Counselers get 1,500, 2,500 and 3,000 euros a day and don't do their job? So I ask what is the government's assessment of the surplus to date? How did the superstition exploit the public property? What investments did it bring to the country? What revenue did he bring to the fund? These are the questions. And I submitted to the minutes the fees of the counsellors and the twenty-thousand and thirty-thousands they took for the meetings. That's what I call you a sublime and insolvency clause. Let's move on. We have also learned from the Finance Minister that the ENPI will increase only a few euros. First of all, let us say that, of course, this is not the case for the few euros to increase HNVY, because increases in objective prices are made to 37% of the country's real estate, according to a Communication from the Ministry that issued a few hours ago on the amendment to HNVY. Increases in objective values automatically lure and mean that dozens of taxes linked to real estate and land from transfer tax to municipal charges will increase. It's not just that you raised the ENVY some euros, you also increased the taxation of the property. And you are the ones who say that HPAI is an unreasonable tax, that it is not amended, that it does not change, that it is simply abolished. And not only did you not abolish him, but you brought him up and intensified. Let's go down and check it out. HISBIA will increase as follows: It is reported that up to EUR 50 above EUR 50 will pay thirty-seven thousand seven hundred ninety taxpayers. From EUR 50 to EUR 200, they will pay the ENVY a hundred thousand natural persons more. And over 200 euros more expensive ENVY will pay for forty-eight thousand ninety-sixty-one taxpayers. So a million taxpayers will pay more than they've paid for all these years. And I ask you, they owed you and you raise them to HISBIA? And with regard to the reductions in HPAI, which the Ministry made in a communication and said that about one million owners will see a reduction in their HPAI, I would like to say that yesterday I insisted and asked the Minister to tell us about an analysis of these reductions. How much will ENVY be reduced? I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the reduction will be less than EUR 10. And the majority of those property owners who will see HNVO reduced, will see him reduced by EUR 1 and 2. That is why Mr Tsakalotos from yesterday says to us: 'I haven't done an analysis', 'I haven't had time to see the reductions'. For it is the sums that I have told you. Now, however, I come to a slightly regrettable matter. We have learned from the parliamentary procedure that the government is losing a remarkable member. The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Katrugalos, intends to resign, as he said at a radio station, if anyone shows to him that there is a provision to reduce pensions. Who's gonna do it now? May I indicate the capital or the government? Who, in his statement, will lead Mr Katrugalo to leave the government? The truth. And the truth is that in the chapter with the medium-term programme, from the table - see table -2.17 shows that since 2019 mixed pension reductions will reach 3 billion euros a year. Somebody tell Mr. Kharugalo so he won't give up surprisingly! Ladies and gentlemen, we have also learned that the surpluses of 4.5% and 5.2% are not bloody surpluses but consecrated by the SYRIZA. The political party which promised fewer surpluses and less austerity institutionalised atrocities which would not even ask for them under conditions of anemic growth of 1.8% of GDP. When Samara's government said a 4% surplus with 3% growth, we had a bloody surplus at the time. Today, however, with a primary surplus of SYRIZA - which commits -5.2% and a growth of 1.8%, SYRIZA says "love blood". From the bloody surpluses we arrived at the 'little blood', huh, and what happened? Ladies and gentlemen, we have also learned that you will be deprived of the banking system and, by extension, of the liquidity of the economy, of some EUR 7 billion through forced internal lending. They are the forward deposits of all public entities, which will necessarily be transferred to the Bank of Greece. There was a debate earlier this morning on the unconstitutionality of this provision. And Mr Voutsis, the President of the Parliament - as the government says - said that it is okay, let the money of public bodies, universities, municipalities, etc. go to the Bank of Greece because they will have a better interest rate. Only the difference is the following you know: that once they go to the Bank of Greece, in this special coin, they will become repos. They couldn't break them at all times and at any time and use them as they want, for their needs, those who have money from their natural owners. I'm going to mention something else we've become wiser. We have learned that in the countermeasures - as I am supposed to say countermeasures - the government has placed public investment and OAS programmes in place. These are implemented by the budget. Why did you drop them in the countermeasure basket? Can it be countermeasure, as I read, the construction of kindergartens? But is that possible? It's the state's obligation to build schools. It's not a countermeasure. But you will tell me, this is where you have not been tempted to reduce the income of people who have been paid EUR 500 a month since 2020. We now know that if Mr Tsakalots were to resign under the 9,600 he would have given up, and we have reached 5,600 and Katrugalos - whoever gets a salary of EUR 500 a month from January 2020, one wage of the twelve he gets will go to the tax. And that's not a memorial. It's not Tsipra - Kammenos. Oh, conquered Greece! Ladies and gentlemen, I am very afraid that this government has learned nothing about how to protect the low-paid, the low-retireees and how the economy will be able to get forward when you are putting the brutal surpluses as a roadblock. In the medium term - I tell you - this supplementary memorandum is the epitome of your insolvency. And I'm sorry to say, where you started being every word of the Constitution, you have become every word of the memorandum! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u194	We close with the last special speaker, Mr Mario Georgiadis, from the Centro Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President. If I need more time, I'll use my dentistry as you have said. Ladies and gentlemen, all Members of Parliament and members of the Centro Association are characterised by our principles, by how meek we are, generally speaking of reason, without outbursts and always counting what we say. These are our modest qualifications, which people know outside, and I think you also know them within the House. After yesterday’s events, however, we confess that we are trying very hard to restrain our rage and feelings. As we debate this yesterday, yesterday and today the consequences of this destructive third memorandum and the fourth strife, which you have called it'medium-term' and only bears the signature of the SYRIZA - ANEL, the government comes again in a tactical way to change the agenda and bring us to a plan even more painful, which can also be described as dangerous in terms of our national status. I am, of course, talking about the agreement with Skopje or more precisely about the sale of Macedonia. The propaganda of the government has already started yesterday. "The story is written!" he says. In black letters, of course, the story will be written. Because the only truth is that unlike the majority of the Greek people - and here it is! - The "first time left" government comes to delete two and a half thousand years of history, our own history, and deliver cd and opyright to the Skopje, by hand of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kotzias, everything, name, history, culture, language, as if it were a game. Macedonia is not a game, ladies and gentlemen! Macedonia is a whole story! And, indeed, you do this without convening political leaders and without a referendum. You will tell me, however, that you too are a referendum to do, so easily 'No' you do it 'Yes', which is inappropriate to you. You truly enjoy everything in a country, in a state called the honorary Macedonia, which for seventy years has been ashamed to say that they are Slavs or Bulgarians and that they are speaking the Bulgarian idiom, on the grounds that they have recognized it - it says - a hundred and fifty countries. The whole planetary system, ladies and gentlemen, to recognise and call it "Macedonia", our signature. If we do not put our signature on the table, it will not go any way towards joining NATO or the European Union. And, indeed, you say, "Hey, twenty-five years we've been tired." What does "two-five years" mean? What is it? Expiry date? Bunch is, and we have to eat it, why is it going to end? Is this a land that's been imprisoned and we shouldn't give it up, sign contracts? Tell them to Israel, Palestine, who give their blood to wars, to claim the interests of their country, to Cyprus that do not sign a contract and a deal, because they are simply interested in their country and not in their chair. Let it go for a hundred and a hundred years! I would remind you that for four hundred years we have been under Turkish yoke. It doesn't matter. There is no expiry date on them. In fact, the Prime Minister in his speech yesterday came to light and recognized - as if it were a judiciary - that there was supposedly a Macedonian language and we talked it and some confused about nationality. And he said that he would bring three changes to the Constitution, forgetting the seven problem articles of pervertism, forgetting the hymn, forgetting the books, forgetting everything. And we also have Mr Kotzias who, on Monday as a new Gruevski, gave an interview and said that he recognized all the pervertalism. For the first time I have seen the Minister speak for the interests of the other country more than ours! He even threatened that those who disagree would fill the Constitution with classified documents. Bring them in, Minister! Here we go! I'm tabling the interview transcript for those who haven't seen it. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And anyway, I would like you to tell me which country the interests defend this man! Macedonia is of the utmost national importance to us as the Central Association of Macedonia and we call it treason. And you can be sure that our country and Greece will pay this very expensively in the future. And we will react with what we have. We have a little within the House, but a lot outside, because we have over 2 million Macedonian citizens and our countless fellow citizens all over Greece, in all the towns that stand together, trying never to approve all these plans that you are preparing. And because we do not live in ancient Rome, in order to be able to demand the worst punishment ever thought of a brain - that is to say, to be declared responsible as enemies of the assembly and of the people of Rome - we will do what our own patriotic and clean conscience allows. Now, in the nine points that we have set as a prerequisite for any cooperation and any governmental pattern in the future, we also put a tenth. And that is the cancellation of what has been launched and agreed by this shameful treacherous government agreement with an article and a law and the renegotiation of an agreement, which will, above all, be based on our national interest without, of course, using the Macedonian term. Now let's go to the memorial, because you're gonna complain that I'm out of the question. But I'm not a matter. I'm in the middle of a thing. You guys want to bring both of you together to disorientate the world. And as we started with the request for unconstitutionalism - which we as the Central Association agree - EUR 25 billion of the Greek people's property was made on Friday, along with the statement of the mouse, which you call in the medium term. This provides for Article 109, which talks about a pledge to the ESM, which is a polite sponsorship of the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence, and even without taking any, but no debt adjustment. And not all of this is enough, but we also have Article 113 by which, through the superstition, "GIAOSE" S.A. is privatised. and its unsatisfactory value of real estate, such as the 100 thousand acres on plots and over four and a half thousand total buildings that exceed five hundred thousand square meters. All in the hammer, that is, from the SYRIZA - ANEL Government to the altar of power and the fourth memorial! With the reduction of tax relief and all other measures actively beyond the annual loss of three wages and pensions, pensions will be at the level of social benefits or so-called bases - as Mr Balaurras said - at the end of each year. Because you're giving the baxies too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u196	We don't give them to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u197	You mentioned that baxes give them to other governments, Mr Balaura, and I say that you are giving them too. To the hanged house, don't talk about rope! Because this social allowance with the criteria that you set and through the problematic platform is doubtful how many, indeed, our Greek fellow citizens will be able to take it at the end of the year. As for the multi-advertised 'clean exit', which you tell us and you sell, the training of deferrals to the issue of the ten-year bond, according to the 'REUTERS', has begun: 'Italian brake in the version of the bond from Athens'. I am tabling a relevant article in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u198	Are you happy about that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u199	What if I'm happy? I'm very sorry about what you're signing, Mr. Colleague. To get this over with, what are you voting on and what are you bringing? Pension cuts from 1-1-2019. Reduction of at least one pension or salary in 2020 with the tax. 3.5% to 2022 and 2.2% to 2060. Excessive for the remaining ninety-eight years because it spent a year. Not even a hundred. And SSM for thirty-five years on our head, i.e. banks, as boss. And on the basis of Sentinel, why are you talking about going to negotiate debt relief and so on? - "If and if necessary we will discuss debt relief", because he believes that there is no need. I would like to apologise to all Greek citizens and to all pensioners, low pensioners and low-paid people, who have spent more time on a nationally important issue and less on what we are now discussing. But what we are discussing now is well known. You bring them in with the emergency procedure. The Greek people know. And the bad news is everyone understands us. And we're even understood by the ANELs, who have a card collapsing. Whenever it's their interest, they vote, and whenever it's not their interest, because they can find votes from other parties or other colleagues, they'll take their tail off the outside. I accept, and I work with the killer and the con man, but I condemn the murder and the stealing. This is the form of conflict you have. We did not even see such love for the chair in the trilogy of the Lord of Rings by Gollum for the love for the ring. That's how you love the chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u200	A motion of censure is tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u201	We don't have to make a motion of censure, Mr. Symphony. We need Mr. Kamkos to lift his confidence in the government. It's just so simple. I also know that even those of you who support this 'North Macedonia' solution as a necessity, ladies and gentlemen, feel a tightening up that our Slav neighbours will now be called Macedonian or northern Macedonians as you wish. Because as Mr Tsipras said to the President of the Union of Centres, Mr Leventis, "We are lucky, because we have won to put "North" before Macedonia. So let's tell them and thank you for giving it to us. You know, in fact, that something is wrong with our history and the name of Macedonia's ownership. Really if it were up to you, you wouldn't move forward. And do you know where all that tightness you're feeling is due? It is because you heard somewhere that Philip and Olympiada met at the Kaveri mysteries in the sanctuary of the great gods in Samothraki and because some of your teachers once said that Alexander the Great had a teacher Aristotle, this greatest Greek philosopher of mankind born in a village of Halkidiki and laid the foundations of world science. And, indeed, probably by reading the story, you could see where our Macedonia arrived. No matter how many maps you study, no matter how much border changes you quote, you know in depth that it is not a geographical issue. It is a national, deeply cultural and deeply educational issue. And, indeed, it's a matter of our own history. For our own good and the good of the next generations, you know that we should defend Macedonia's name much better. What happened yesterday is a lesson for the next generations. It is also a lesson for the society as a whole for the way in which it is damaged, when it is in public life that the service of self-interest at the expense of society as a whole and of the common good. Let us hope that our bailouts will be managed and defended much better our history and culture. And let's hope that if any of the tourists in Japan in 2100, let's assume, they come to Stagira and ask confusingly "Aristotle finally was Macedonian or Greek?", then most Greeks might open up and read the Aristotle Ethics but in the original version. Then they will see that it is not at all strange that the Macedonian language of Aristotle will look very familiar to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u202	Please, Mr President, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u203	I shall conclude, Mr President. And you know why they'll look familiar? Because it's ancient Greek. The same tribulation, of course, would also feel for any other part of the Greek territory or the sea, from Ormene to Gadus or from the Othos to Kastelorizo. We don't stand out for Macedonia. We distinguish between Greece and its territories. The question is one: What does Greece gain from yesterday's agreement that you contacted us? The answer is easy. Nothing! It only gives everything, loses everything, history, language, nation, name, culture! And to mention...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u204	You didn't read anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u205	Didn't I read anything? Did you read them? You don't have a problem, Mr. Barkas. You sign everything with your hands and feet. You have no remorse.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u206	Please don't engage in dialogue and conclude, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u207	Mr. Manier, are you tired of truths?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u208	You'll hear me!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Manier, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u210	I'll listen to you. Don't worry. I'll hear everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u211	Mr. Georgiadis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u212	Golden Dawn speaks better than you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u213	Golden Dawn is not a democratic party, Mr. Papadopoulos. You're worse than Golden Dawn. You sell everything!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Georgiadis, stop dialogue, because I can impose the interruption and close!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u215	They're causing me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u216	I don't care if they're causing you. You're also Vice President and you must be self-sufficient. Please, finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u217	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u218	Shame on you! Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u219	Shame on you! No shame! Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u220	Please, ladies and gentlemen, what do you want? Shall we go up to night talking about "Macedonian" or talk about the medium term? Finish, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u221	Don't remove anything. You accused me of being worse than Golden Dawn. I say the same for you. Revocation to withdraw. We shall now proceed to the vote on the fourth memorandum, to close and thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. We very clearly vote 'no' with arms and legs, as I said yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u222	You should know that almost all of you, except for two, have exhausted, the rapporteurs and the speakers, your remarks. I'm saying that, to be loved today for tomorrow. We will go as follows: I will give the floor to interventions which have provisions, not the relevant ministers, on the basis of a list sent by the Secretary of the Minister of State to a minister and then four - five colleagues will follow. Of course, the Parliamentary Representatives whenever they want can take the floor for their speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, will the speakers follow?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u224	Yes, I did. With 'co-Chairmen', I mean Members of Parliament, speakers. You're on the list. They'll talk four to five. Mr. Paulakis has the floor for six minutes with a minimum tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u225	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will talk more about this multi-branded project, but I cannot avoid temptation by seeing what is happening in the public speech this morning. Father Mitsotakis in 1977 had come down with a slogan in the elections in Chania "Dexodus at every dead end". The son of Mitsotakis, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, feels that after today's and all these caragiozis that took place in the morning, he will come down to the 2019 elections with a slogan "Dexodos on every exit". That is my opinion, that is what I can say as a central idea. We are resolving a problem that you have created for twenty-five years, which lasts seventy years. Greece wins and goes out and you say with a distorted public reason for retreat from National Rights etc. One hundred and forty countries have recognized Macedonia, and now these hundred and forty countries and the three largest of the world will recognize it as Severna Makedonija. Isn't that a victory? "erga omnes" isn't it a victory? The complete separation of the concept, identity and language that they have nothing to do with ancient Greek culture, isn't it a victory? Think and decide. Let's go to that one. Today it ends a long, painful, difficult, tiring journey that began after the July 2015 compromise and ends - regardless of what you say, regardless of the fact that you have "SKAI" to bark since the morning and all the parapolitical and all the channels that follow you, regardless of what they all say - with society standing up and better. Whatever they say! At the moment, because we are not stealing - let us not forget that, we are not stealing like you and your predecessors - have surpluses, a large part of which is releasing the weak. We got unemployment at 26.5% and now with the April figures they will be under 20% and they have not yet been incorporated into ELSTAT. The index of industrial production has increased. This year, a new record is expected for tourism for the third year. One reason why the measures on pension cuts were concluded was why the IMF had built up the legs that in January 2019 ECA would have a 1,1 billion-billion deficit. Right? It's not true. Once again, the computers and multipliers of the IMF have not been verified. Probably for 1,1 billion with 1.3 billion surpluses, EFKA is going for January 2019 and the IMF is probably not going to continue. After all, not a single euro has borrowed since July 2015. We are voting for a plan that has some articles on the health sector. I have not heard any particular criticism of this. It's a multi-brand plan that you say it loads new weights etc., but in the health sector I didn't see any serious criticism. You're talking about extending the clawback. Yeah, we agreed. Only we have agreed that these limits will be growing over the next few years. And this is reflected in the medium term. There is an indicative breakdown. The final allocation will be voted each year by voting on the budget. Mr Xanthos said yesterday at the committee meeting that at least EUR 96 to EUR 100 million will be added each year to the spending limit and to the actual financing of the system. And that is based on the growth of GDP alone. Because what will happen with the surpluses and where they will be tabled will be decided by a political decision of the government. And the priorities of the government, as it was in the first four years, will be in the second four years, along with education and support for the socially weak, support for the health sector. Have you figured out what's going on in health these three years? Have you realised that we have received a system that we have added up to six and a half thousand staff? That we had a 930m euros system and this year it had a surplus of 370m euros? That we have taken a system that had aged all its infrastructure and financed in the memorandums, in the crisis, in the poorness of the bank, in the suffocating commission of lenders, with all possible resources available, over EUR 120 million in the renewal programmes of medical equipment and new projects? Because they don't call it the channels that are savage to you, don't they? Every local society from Crete to Alexandroupolis knows it. The multiplier political effect that would create if there was a elementary journalistic ethics is not there, but society sees it and compares in 2019. Who wants to rule him? Tsipras or Mitsotakis? Who wants to be ministers of health? Me and Andreus or Adonis and Voridis? This is going to be a comparison. And it will be done on the basis of the facts. Within the articles of the bill and to which you have not referred at all, it seems that EEAY becomes the first... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Two minutes of tolerance, Mr President. Thank you. The way in which the Agency is currently - nobody says it - clears its providers, has received a prize at the auditing sessions of the whole of Europe. And now it goes one step further. And he's talking about a one-digit submission of the documents. Such a mechanism, as ENPY has set it up, has not been set up by any insurance agency in Europe. Makes this check on the physical documents at 1% to 4% of each submission. Since January 2016, the EEAS has not put in a new debt. We dropped the 2,200,000 outstanding debts that we received at about three hundred and fifty to four hundred at the moment. And that doesn't look like it. It feels about the economy and society, though. They feel that the workers in clinics or diagnostic laboratories or psychiatric clinics, etc., are paid on time now. It puts a system for identifying the patient's physical presence on every EOPY provider, in order to cut off another large piece of falsehood with the documents, which were taken out and printed. Where'd that happen before? This is where it happens. And it will be piloted in two, three categories of providers. And it will be extended to the whole. Thus, we will be able to make much better use of the resources that we give the EEAS, about 1.5 billion euros, which will be going on and growing, as is reflected in the medium term. Also - and I will close with this - for the first time in the history of the Greek state and the Ministry of Health is today voted on at the Board of Directors of EEAS this single benefit regulation describing how the EEAS is distributed in 1.5 billion to private providers and 900,000 000, other than drugs, in public hospitals, what benefits it covers. All benefits regulations from IKA, OGA, TEBE, etc., never, ever. And I challenge: Who had sat down to see them? To see this line - line with the service, along with scientists, along with the administration, to describe real needs and their coverage and extension of these covers? Why is there many new things in the new health care regulation putting order in a landscape in which we have been in the past few years to compare it? They made some of the agreements, the deals, and they brought them to the ministers or to the managers of the insurance funds and signed them. And whoever had a political tooth took excessive fees and expenses for the product or for the service he offered. Now he's entering order on scientific terms, based on people's needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u226	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u227	We're resolving the issue of intensive care units. Their movement in the private sector will also take place through the EMCDDA. The patient won't pay in the private sector if he needs an intensive bed. We described in detail the categories and not this blurred landscape with suffocations, with special nutritional preparations that were going and giving a preparation. For example, I will say the Q10, which has no influence and nowhere based on scientific data. We spent seven and eight million because someone had a tooth before and put it in the tooth salad at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u228	Mr. Polakis, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u229	There are too many such arrangements that we have seen. We'll meet needs. And we will never get to what we arrived at in the years of the crisis, that spending on the suffrages was EUR 13,000 in 2011 and was EUR 53,000 in 2014. Or the cost of the colostrums was 11,000 euros in 2011 and it reached 48,000 euros in 2014. Now we have succeeded and come down to 35,000,000 euros and about 25,000,000 euros in the first duo, which we did...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u230	You're done, Mr. Polakis. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u231	... control the cost and pricing of the goods. On this basis, we will meet every real need, in the way that we need, to those who need it, without throwing the money of the Greek people into the air. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how forty-six students and students and four teachers from Patras' Second-Season School attendance. Welcome to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I will say the first five names of the speakers, and if a colleague is not in the Chamber, he will come. Mr Karayannides, Mrs Karamanlis, Mr Papatheodorou, Mr Papapas and Mr Katsotis. They are the first five colleagues. Here, Mr Karayannides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u233	Thank you very much. I want to know the mild and moderate speech of the representative from the Centro Association. That's why we're going forward. To say that nationalism has always been the refuge for political fraud. With such rhetoric it is not going to be an agreement to make with FYROM, but with any neighbouring country. If our attempt is to make wars, those who want to dress the hakis and go to war. We want to live in peace in the Balkans. And I think we've made a start and we can do it very well. As far as the bill is concerned, the well-known story with the superstition was repeated today. I don't understand. The two hundred and twenty-two, of which many are here today, do not remember what they voted for on August 14, 2015. And it's not that they don't remember what they voted for, but they also object to unconstitutionalism. To stop hypocrisy, as Mr Pafilis quite rightly said, and he is absolutely right. No objection of unconstitutionality has ever been raised by this House. Apparently enough has been pressed and must be done. But this syndication in every bill, which we as opposition also used to a great extent, sometime we decided to stop. We decide to stop and talk seriously. Secondly, no public property is sold out by the superstate. You have said so many times since 2015. It has not happened until now and you continue the same way. The shares in the surplus are not guaranteed. In any case, you know that if the country arrives at some point it can't pay its loans, we'll talk about bankruptcy. So that's where we should be interested not to get there. Not if we get to bankruptcy what happens next. We'll be bankrupt. You've done it successfully already once. You bankrupt us once. So you're familiar with what's gonna happen. Today we are here because there is a specific, a given framework. We are in the European Union, we are bankrupt five years ago and we have been subject to certain limitations that you have brought. The IMF brought it to PASOK, and you followed it, and then you. These limitations are to be taken into account. Thirdly, it was used as a turf - and with the numbers, you know, it is a very good game - by the rapporteur for the river. The Potamian rapporteur said that seven hundred thirty-seven thousand seven hundred nine will pay up to EUR 50 for an increase in HISBIA. It does not say what percentage this is for natural persons who are taxed. It's 12%. It says forty-eight thousand nine hundred sixty-one will pay over 200 euros. It does not say what percentage this is for natural persons who are taxed. It's 0,2%. 85% of natural persons will have reductions or no increases. That's not what we're saying. We'll call the numbers. It is not a good thing that ENPIA is growing to people who might not have to pay him. But I have the impression that your voters, who will pay more than EUR 200, are probably sad. And they are probably not people of 8,000 euros and 10,000 euros of annual income. There's more going on. We get lost in talking about a lot of things that we could discuss, but the opposition has located it in the superstate, HISPIA and the surpluses that I will say below. Will you say something negative, positive - is it not the case - on the arrangement made in the extrajudicial mechanism? That 2017 debts are also included, that it is planned to release during the adjustment of the bank accounts, that similar partners can individually regulate their debts? Will you say something? Do you agree? Don't you agree? You're criticizing, you're making a productive proposal! But are you going to say something about it? Oh, no. You'll tell about the excesses. I have no more answer to that than the Minister, Mr Juliarakis, said yesterday. Detailed analysis of the overplannings. You insist on this story. 3.5% and 2.2% are well below 4.5% that you promised to have by 2030. That was your commitment when you were government. At the same time, I must remind you that you put us in Maastricht, which also has a standard figure of 3% to 3.5%. This will be maintained. Is it good to have that big surplus? It's not. We have promised that, because you forced us to promise that to the situation that you brought the economy. But the above point - and the Minister told you yesterday - is not something for which we will take new measures, but will be achieved by what already exists. It's not going to make an economy. Even if it does not make an economy, 2020 will have a surplus of 5.2%. This should see how it will happen, so that you do not add numbers, which they do not even do in the first grade. Finally, no one said that in this country everything is pomegranate, that there is no bad people, that there are no people who have not paid their rents, its current, but in any case they are far less those and that state is trying and building a net to be as few and with fewer needs as they need to meet. After all - two and a half million people you threw them aside and had no access to medicine and hospital treatment. So think about what you left, where we are and how we can go further. And the agreement with FYROM I think will be much more positive than the point at which you left us three years ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u234	Mr Ana Karamanlis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr President. The discussion of this draft law is taking place in the midst of the uproot caused by the agreement of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kotzias, who grants Macedonia's name to our neighbours, which recognises them as Macedonians and their language as Macedonian, in essence accepting the core of their pervertism, which implys the biggest negotiating weapon of our country, the veto. The Prime Minister commits the country to a bad agreement that does not serve its interests, without legalising it, since he does not even have the consent of his government partner. Most importantly, however, Mr. Tsipras does not have the approval of the Greek people, who sees his dignity being ragged. Negotiating in secret for months, ignoring the parliament and the parties and destroying the citizens, he puts his signature on a national defeat. In this unacceptable agreement, one of the blueest pages of Greek history is written and it turns out that the willing to sign national concessions has been found. Moreover, for them, such cases are fine letters, provided that the majority remains solid and that the power is extended. There is, of course, the exception of Mr Kammenos who has distanced himself from the government position, but he states that he cannot separate his chair. So what Mr Paulakis said, and he talked about cargos, we are returning them to him and his team. With the lights, therefore, on the skeptical side of the government at the same time, the eight-demand medium-term programme of the eight-demand, a statement also of its non-existent resistance to anything that it is asked to vote on. He did so with festive tones, trying to support the story of the clean exit, which has already begun to disperse, with the government representative saying that the exit is made with society upright, a society where the CSCE has been abolished, where the budget seizures are routine and the auctions daily, a society that has been unforgettablely beaten by the imposition of twenty-seven new taxes and tens of pension cuts. This society has kneeled and does not in any way share the optimism of Mr.Janakopoulou, nor does it, of course, feel relieved because the exit from the memoranda is supposedly approaching. The medium-term programme confirms what has become aware of Greek citizens, that hard austerity measures will continue to affect them next day, and that our country will remain under supervision, forced to hunt for the atrocious surpluses that Mr. Tsipras has signed. The financial framework confirms the reduction of main pensions since 2019, the reduction of the personal difference in supplementary pensions, the increase of insurance contributions for freelance professionals and the reduction of duty-free from 2020. Pensioners will lose EUR 2.9 billion in 2019, with losses on a case-by-case basis from one to three pensions. And you want them happy because we're going out on the market! I, like Mr Amyras, will not resist temptation and I shall refer to Mr Katrugalos, who has promised that he will resign if there is a phrase in the bill that refers to pension cuts. The abolition of personal differences, that is, what exactly does it mean? The tables accompanying the bill and reflect pension cuts by EUR 2.9 billion do not apply? Let's not rush to quit though! He has been waiting for Mr Tsakalotos, who has been cleansing his own resignation for months to reduce duty or Mr Kammenos, who said that the increase in VAT on the islands is a crime! Today the reduced rate is being abolished in the last islands. The famous "for each euro measure a euro counter" was also quickly forgotten and proved to be an indigenous mirror. The measure account will exceed EUR 3 billion instead of EUR 2,631 billion, which was the original budget of the measures in the medium term. Similarly, the countermeasures fall to EUR 1,99 billion from EUR 2,65 billion originally calculated, with the government eating tax exemptions, although if the surplus reaches 3,96% of GDP. The government is bankruptcy society and then distributes poverty benefits. But the reality is specific and is not exaggerated. Every year, 5 billion euros will be lost from the citizens' pockets. The government also insists on the irrationality of the superfluous primary surpluses. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, with a decency act, you are putting the public property for EUR 25 billion through the supranational guarantee. It is the sealing of the assignment of our national wealth. You are the government that granted the national wealth for ninety-nine years, for a 30-year loan and mortgages the public property worth EUR 25 billion for a EUR 3.5 billion loan of 2015, without even claiming by the ESM the unavailable balance of the third memorandum, which is over EUR 27 billion. Consider whether this had been done by the New Democracy how many of you would have represented the indignant in the Constitution. It is a colonial clause, reflecting the unreliability and inability of this government. You sacrifice everything on the altar of political survival and you defend with a special zeal your stay in power. Except that the lie you systematically serve to the Greek people is no longer dignified. The damage you have caused is neither made up nor forgotten and will sooner or later be called to pay the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u236	Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u237	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u238	After Mr. Papatheodorou, because I announced him. Here you go, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with great insistence the government is trying to present the draft law under discussion to the repayment of the country's formal obligations towards lenders and to the ticket of clean exit from the memorandums. The same account is repeated to be inspired by the members of the government's majority, since it is the only record that will perhaps be accompanied by the government of the hardest memorial austerity and the failed negotiation by the elections. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is one problem: this time society, the Greek citizens do not seem willing to follow this story. Really, what about Mr. Kammenos? Mr. Kammenos will not give up on the treason agreement, as he called it, which breaks the name of Macedonia and will continue to support the government when the Greek people are poor? We will soon have the Ghost-Ghost Ministerial Council, which would have resigned. Mr. Kammenos would have resigned if VAT on the islands were to rise, if religiously passed, if anything else. He was gonna drop the government. He's still here. Mr Katrugalos would have resigned, who said that 'if you find a pension cut, I resign'. He didn't read page 380 that everyone told him. Mr Tsakalotos would have resigned if the tax were to fall to 5,000 or if it fell from 8 000. It is the fourth memorandum of the country's lasting commitment to the economy and budgetary subordinateness. It is your own construction, which cuts pensions, reduces taxfree, cuts allowances and brings changes in households' finances, people's households. With the sum of cuts and taxes, which the National Representation will be asked to approve, to touch the 5.2 billion euros, with only countermeasures for tax relief in the ultimate future, it puts this fourth memorandum on Greek citizens - say in the medium term, the same thing you will vote - and the medium and popular strata. The Minister for Finance himself, Mr Chakalotos, admitted yesterday to the House that he never spoke about abduction of austerity. That's right, because this bill extends the austerity. If we look at the tables on page 380 of the draft law, in total, interventions are estimated to yield up to EUR 5.118.000.000 at the end of 2022, of which EUR 2.9 billion will come from streamlined pension cuts, gentlemen and subsidiary, EUR 143 million from subsidies, i.e. reductions in allowances and an impending increase in the insurance contributions of the free traders by including more than their paid insurance contributions in the annual taxable income and the remaining EUR 2 billion from the tax reduction. That's the reality. It cannot be changed either by what the government is trying to promote as a record or by what it is trying to create as a communication trick, that is, a smokescreen that along with the medium-term should, on the same day, discuss the scepticism and - why not? - in the upper Chamber, fundamental rights and their monitoring. This no longer passes. All of this results from the additional measures adopted at the request of the IMF, i.e. additional measures which means new Memorandum obligations. The Multilateral Plan includes a rain of tax, pension and budgetary provisions. With the pension provisions of the draft law, cuts in public and private pensions will reach 3.5 billion. Among other things, the abolition of the personal difference, which automatically leads to cuts of up to 18% in the main and ancillary pensions from 2019. Surgery moves towards a reduction in the tax on wage earners and pensioners and removal of any most recent tax exemptions. Furthermore, the obligation on banks to inform debtors and guarantors of unserved business loans within 12 months is lifted before they are sold to funds. At the same time, the possibility offered by the existing scheme to debtors to settle their debts is also withdrawn, in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Conduct. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like for a minute your tolerance. This measure, i.e. selling the loan without prior information, only applied to non-cooperating customers - debtors. The measure is also extended to non-performing business loans. We all understand in this Chamber what this means to borrowers and to the creditworthiness of businesses and who the government wants to favour, the funds and nothing else. With the eighty eight prerequisites that you have voted on and the bill is completed, you are also voting together on the flawlessness of the country's economic stability. What else is left to guard from the income of the Greek people, from the popular layers? The insurance system in the country is falling apart, but the famous holistic development plan of the government provides for funding only the national pension of EUR 380 since 2025. After all, you make provision for beastly surpluses of 5.2 billion from cuts and taxes up to 2022, of which the Ministry of Finance promises to provide benefits and tax relief. Finally, in accordance with Article 9 of the Multilateral Plan, the Financial Facility Convention is amended. The 2015 Financial Facility Convention is amended with the ESM. So it is not what the honourable Member said before. It is a new arrangement that you have introduced and includes in the Contracting Parties and the Overseas Department or otherwise the Greek public holding and property company. You put a clause in which the Greek State guarantees to the ESM up to 25 billion euros for the loans that Greece has received, while stipulating everywhere that the country is coming out of the memoranda and the loan commitments. What I'm saying is what the Greek people understand. And the Greek people with what you are voting on today will be sure that they will recognize the only government that has signed the lasting austerity, austerity and its own poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u240	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u241	Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor for a minute to tell us what your personal issue is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u242	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Karayannides earlier when I was put in my position specifically blamed the term 'nationalist'. He said nationalism is the crook's refuge. I would like to say to Mr Karayannides that clearly those who do not agree with SYRIZA are nationalists. Unfortunately, we are democrats and we love the country more than the chair, which is not the case in the ranks of co-government at the moment and in the government. Let me remind you of the indignant ones who burned the Constitution and all over Greece that the expressions "Tsolakoglou", "Germancholes" and "in the four" were theirs. Then they were saints? I don't know. If they were saints, then go to a monastery to unite. Now all of a sudden, those who defend our sovereign rights are nationalists? And we didn't talk about war. We live in peace with the Balkans. And with regard to the hakis, said Mr Karayannides to wear those we want to go, let's search through his members, the government and the coup d'état. Others wear the knives and make them figurey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u243	There's a record of your opposition. Mr Christos Pappas, speaker from the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u244	The Prime Minister said in his speech yesterday: 'I am proud of the agreement'. Remember that statement. Not to change it according to his habits, as when he said he would give HIS money to CEDEFOP and then said he wouldn’t give it, because he stays in the rent and doesn’t have a home. Let's tell him Macedonia isn't his home. Macedonia is a home of millions of Greeks who will pay the relevant tax, wanting or not. They will pay him historically, geopolitically, commercially and with dignity. So remember her, the pride of the Prime Minister, because the time will come when all this will be judged by the Greek people who will ask for responsibility from those who negotiated the country. Skopje will vote. The Prime Minister mentioned this as part of the agreement. Why is this not going to happen in Greece too? Why won't he be a referendum here? Answer: Because he already knows the Greek people's opinion. The Greek people bruise it at repeated rallys throughout Greece: "No compromise for our Macedonia". But the government is deaf. The government ignores the people. The government is in direct contrast to the popular will. The government with manoeuvres, with fluorescents, has the opportunity to pass the degrading agreement on Greece, as the left memos passes today. But it does not have the ability to impose it on the conscience of the people. No, she doesn't. It will remain in history as the most intractable government, the government that cost Greece a large part of our country, a part of our history, a great diplomatic defeat and brought a particularly dangerous geopolitical risk before the gates. The definition of 'North Macedonia' means - that is, de facto - that there are other 'Macedonians', the eastern, western and southern. Even if we accept that there will be no opening of the appetite on other suitors to ask for any of the other Macedonians, even so, will we accept that we have 'South Macedonia'? For that is what the term 'North' introduces. We never did! You gentlemen of the Right, the Centre, the Left - central, patriots, as you say, but not nationalists - will you accept 'de facto' that Macedonia is not 'one Greek', but is it just 'South'? So take a position now, because 'North Macedonia' is a complex name, it's nothing else. It is a complex name with geographical identification and 'erga omnes' and 'green horses', as the Greek people say! It is precisely the permanent position of the New Democracy and many others, of course, so that I do not blame them in here. Now, of course, the New Democracy is turning them out of safety and for micro-party reasons. For us, of course, there is "North Macedonia" and it is the northern insurmountable Macedonia, the northern Macedonia of Monastre, where Ion Dragoumis acted, as is the enslaved northern continent and the occupied northern Cyprus. The negotiation, therefore, ended with the order of the Prime Minister yesterday, June 12, 2018, a clear day, a day of national defeat, a day that could be parallel to the disaster of 1922. Of course, now we don't have the millions dead and the refugees, but it's not an exaggeration. Listen: "Macedonian/citizen of northern Macedonia who speaks Macedonian and belongs to the Macedonian Nation". Is Mr. Tsipras taking part in this so-called diplomatic success? Is this after six months of negotiation the big achievement of Mr. Tsipras? So, at first, what were the Skopje asking for, to change our name? Mr. Tsipras, without informing anyone, retrospectively informed the political leaders, but Nicholas Michaloliakos of course, obviously, because Nikos Michaloliakos would be the only one to say clearly and vertically a "no" and the Prime Minister did not want this to be recorded. He didn't want it recorded. The rest of you are now talking about fascism, Nazism, etc., are pretexts in sin, because there could be no understanding between Nikos Michalliakos, that is, the Greek nationalists who fought and struggle for our Macedonia and the ancestors of the Bolsheviks, the communists, who betrayed and betrayed our Macedonia and who were officially speaking of independent Macedonia and Thrace. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Without authorisation, therefore, from the Greek people or the House, Mr Tsipras proceeded to this infamous national agreement, a man we know how he negotiates and what abilities he has. After seventeen hours he delivered our country to the loan sharks for ninety-nine years, and after six months of negotiation he delivers our Macedonia. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the story of the scop is a long one and is fully linked to the economic crisis, but also to the draft law that we are debating today, this memorial memorandum. We are therefore bankrupt, with an incompetent government, with reduced defence spending, a country that is vulnerable and enduring and leads the Greek people to constant defeats. Every day he loses. The money's gone. The stores, our homes, we lost them. And I ask, why did that happen? Because we left them. Now with our Macedonia, now with our country, will we leave them? Oh, no. The Golden Dawn, then, says "no" and invites the Greeks to a pallic rise. "Now for everything!" Everyone in the Constitution, unspoiled, only with Greek flags, tomorrow, Friday, 10:00 a.m., so that the agreement does not pass, so that we do not leave them and say that Macedonia is only one and it is Greek. We nationalists, therefore, do not retreat, we do not compromise. We tell the Greek people not to be disappointed, not to fall. And in other similar periods Theodore Kolokotronis said: "Our Genesis and sometimes crucified, but behold live." With Golden Dawn, with the Greek nationalists in the pioneering of the national struggle to get our homeland back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u245	We are moving with our colleague from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Christos Katsotis. Then Mr. Theocharis, Mr. Igoumenides, will take the floor and because he will succeed me in the Step Mr. Bored and is written to speak below, but he cannot come down from the Step and speak, I will make a request to speak. Then Mr Charakopoulos and Mrs Christophilopoulou will be followed. Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. The special speaker of the JRC in his position undeniably revealed that in this bill you also come to rob pensioners, wagers, poor people and strengthen business groups at the same time. You will remove cumulatively from pensioners and employees EUR 18.5 billion. In the committee, we have talked about the work included in the Multifibre Arrangement. The government is cheating on the workers. It maintains all the anti-fraud legislative framework that has been created in favour of business groups. He refuses to reinstate Law 1876/90 for the OMD, the minimum wage, the collective agreements. However, let us go on talking more specifically, first and foremost, about arbitration. The 2012 Ministerial Act provided for an obligation for both parties to agree on referral to arbitration. It overturned the regulation of Law 1876/90, which provided that the labour side could unilaterally apply. It also reversed the other prediction that the OPCW might be able to deal with all the working conditions. The unilateral action shall be reintroduced after the decision of the Council of State. However, L.4303/2014, which legislated for the second degree of arbitration, that is to say, the possibility of a five-member secondary committee appealing, dismissing, not to implement the arbitral decision to be taken. So the government keeps that. The government just what does it do? It shall add to the information to be considered by the intermediary or arbitrator the possibility of purchasing the salary. However, the main elements remain and these are competitiveness, productivity, profitability of business groups. I shall refer to the minimum wage. He will continue to be defined by the Brutsi Act, which the government maintains. He refuses to release the negotiation of the basic salary and what is foreseen by him. It refers to a gradual increase with symbolic importance of the current EUR 586 gross wage. It prejudges the Portuguese example with a few minutes of the euro increase in the share capital. It also maintains the unequal pay for equal work for young people with the maintenance of the underpaid wage, which, through the blackmails in the workplace, is also imposed on old people, thus generalizing the underpaid wage. We are now moving on to collective agreements. The government once again deceives workers when it says that it supports the institution of collective bargaining. Why? Because it denies the reintroduction of the framework of free negotiations. The minimum wage is the basis of any sectoral contracts, when this is not the result of the free negotiations, but will ultimately be determined by decision of any mechanism. As far as he is concerned, the Scientific Committee, the Committee of Experts, will essentially determine the level of wages for sectoral contracts and the working conditions. The government also retains the tools of employers, the associations of persons, in which conditions of work jungle and hunger have been created. The government's refusal to abolish Law 4172/2013 means that it maintains the three-year freeze, generally of maturity, until unemployment falls below 10%. It is another side that confirms the government's intentions. A specific question is the overturn in Article 7 of Law 1876/90, which stipulates that individual contracts are more dominant only in cases where they have better terms for the workers and that ‘conditions of individual contracts of employment which deviate from the regulatory conditions of collective labour contracts are more predominant if they provide greater protection for workers’. The vast majority of individual contracts lead to a change in the working relationship from full-time to part-time and rotating. The government maintains this arrangement. As regards the extension of the government's collective agreements, it is an empty shirt. The reintroduction of the expansion of sectoral collective agreements is linked by the Government to the representativeness of the contracts. representativeness will be controlled through a mechanism based on information from the information system 'ERGAN', which will examine whether members of a sectoral employer organisation employ 51% of the employees in this sector. If they do not employ 51% of workers in the industry, then the terms of a sectoral collective agreement will not be mandatory for companies that are not members of the employers' organisation. There is no reference from the Government to the regime of the compulsory nature of the contracts. The requirement to apply collective agreements regardless of whether or not the employer is a member of the employer's organisation, unless expansion is legislated, is of no value. The examples are many. I am referring, for example, to the tourism that has been signed, this applies to ninety hotels of ten thousand. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, excuse me for the time. The non-legislation of compulsoryity maintains the working jungle, hunger wages. Another example of representativeness: In Heraklion, Crete, a contract was signed between the Hotel Association and the employees. The hoteliers have been deleted from the Union and the Union on the grounds that they are not representative, do not sign a new contract and apply all of this framework established in their favour. Therefore, the representativeness for which all the mechanisms of the employer and the civil state will be the vehicle for undermining every struggling effort of the trade unions. With the retreat of the movement, the great attack on capital and government, the support of the employers' and governmental union on the goals of capitalist recovery, a new situation has been created in the workplaces and industries. The employer must have the same status as its underprivileged unions, obliges workers to write to them, to agree with solutions recommended by the same general assemblies when required, to ensure the representativeness you call on the Government. For example, the supermarket union. They are managers as well as the Bureau designated by the employer itself. Do you think they represent workers' concerns and demands? Another example is "ANDREADIS", a friend of Mr. Tsipras, who put a bet with him, as he said at the SETE assembly, and who, while prohibiting elected members of the class movement in secondary and tertiary organizations from entering the workplace and talking to the workers, creates unions even where they are blackmailing if they are not writing members and do not leave existing labor unions. Their staff member shall be appointed president to the clubs of the group. In Corfu, his directors did not hesitate to hold hostages for two trade unionists who gave notice to the new hotel in the group, calling on employees not to give in to pressure. Whose interests do these representatives represent you invoke? As far as free trade is concerned, we should not be talking about it, because we have said how it is going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u247	Finish, Mr. Katatotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u248	I shall conclude, Mr President. We believe that the working people as a whole have no way but to go beyond the struggle with their trade unions, with the U.S.F.M., to claim the losses of their modern needs for wage increases, for the mandatoryity of contracts, for the abolition of all anti-grass laws. No employee under EUR 751, legislative safeguarding on Sunday holiday, no first-resident auction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Katsotis, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u250	To pay the capital, abolish the ENPIA, the characters, tax evasion, abolish the Katorugalos law, recruitment to public hospitals, full-time employees. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u251	Mr Theocharis Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u252	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel that it is not so important to deal with the individual. I did so, as much as the time allowed me and with the tolerance of the Bureau, as much as I could in my speech in the committee. Allow me to address an issue, Minister, which you may not know, I mentioned earlier to Mr Tsakalotos, on Article 110, on fines in Greek - I would stress, only in the Greek - tobacco industries. Be careful, ladies and gentlemen, what you will vote on. If a third party is caught, even if the company has complied with all tax and customs infringements, to smuggle with its own products, then it can fine up to 4 500% of its revenues into that company. In other words, if we all understand it, someone goes to Bulgaria or to a country that is cheaper than the cigarettes of "SEKAP" and "KARLIA", legally, fully taxed in that country, fills a trunk cigarette, comes back to our country, gets caught at customs and even though it is a simple Greek citizen, I and you, enters a fine. That's unconstitutional. If he is in the meantime doing the same thing as MARLBORO, then because you have no jurisdiction is not fined by the ‘MARLBORO’. It's only in the Greek company. This is what we are voting on today! Is that a signal to leave Greek production, to drive them away, to leave Greece? Is that the'solistic development plan'? That's the first. Secondly, is it possible to pay for third-party infringements, without even a suspicion, when there is no fraudulent relationship, that there is not even a legal relationship, that is, that it is one of its distributors, someone who cooperates? It cannot continue this thing without proving any violation by the company. If, Minister, you have a Memorandum obligation or I do not know what and you cannot withdraw this provision - which you have to withdraw - look at extending the application of one or two months to discuss it with the industry and find out how to reform it in a way that is constitutional. That's not right. Please note and discuss it with your people. Otherwise, we will have an accident and I know very well of tax or customs that will show some exaggerated zeal once this provision is passed. But let us see the great picture, ladies and gentlemen. Let me discuss the big picture. Are we finishing today with the memos? Are we finishing today with austerity? Shall we start with growth? Starting with business? 'no' is the answer. Because if it were 'yes', we would not talk about the medium-term, but about the holistic development plan, which has gone away and has gone to unclaimed demands. We've forgotten. Now we're talking about pension cuts, which you won't get back. You are voting for them again today. So say it, Minister, and Mr Chakalotos, because you keep saying that it is not the time to discuss it. You're honest people and show political honesty. Tell the retired people that the cuts will be made from 1-1-2019. Do you know what I'd say to them? I'd tell them, yes, the country doesn't come out, no country goes out, and it doesn't get its development, and certainly ours, if the money goes only to those who don't work. We must support the new generation. I will therefore, with countermeasures, give an amount to every eighteenth, to each university graduate, so that he can start his life, as long as he stays in that country. Here's the countermeasures that would be worth it and would be accepted by the retired people. I don't even know a retired person who won't accept his sacrifice, just as long as his grandchildren are backed up. But you don't say that. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of Greece of 2022, we are talking about the 25 billion who are leaving. Instead of Brain gain and how Brain Drain will be reversed, we are discussing how the 25 billion leave and go to Luxembourg for a guarantee. And Mr Tsakalotos told us earlier: "As Mr Alexiadis said last year, sour grapes. We've given those since 2015. What are you shouting now in 2017?’ Mr Tsakalotos speaks of the forty years of governance, who has gone back to the Civil War, now tells why we are discussing the crime that began in 2015! Indeed, it started in 2015 and this crime is now being completed and it is a constant crime and not a momentary one. Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen, I do not hear from anyone what it will be like and how we want Greece to be in the future. In 2022, we're going to play hideout with such bills, we're going to be hilarious, we're going to increase taxation, we're going to choke production, as SYRIZA seems to want to be in the penitentiary? Or are we going to become a normal European country, when even the European vision wants to be built and regenerated - that is how opposition, for example, tells us - from the outset? What does production mean? Under any conditions? So to produce our young people in factories or in business products that they cannot buy themselves? So all of us being a Mykonos, where the Greek cannot go, why can't he pay the deck and it's just for the Arabs? Is that tomorrow's model? No, ladies and gentlemen, both the government and the opposition. I dream of a country that produces added value. I dream of a country that keeps its young people in good, expensive jobs. I dream of a country that gives dignity to all, and to those who did not study and to those who failed. I dream of a country that brings young people to study here. We keep talking about tourism this week and we are not talking about tourism for the four years, how our universities will bring new people here - now that Britain is being shaken up with Brexit - to study and to be bored with Greek culture. I dream of a country without instability or corruption of executive power, with presidential democracy. I dream of a country with power and continuity, with a national strategy council rather than a individual's strategy as it is today. I dream of a country where taxation does not exceed 20% and it can be done today if we make use of the measures. I dream of a country of solidarity with citizens' incomes in every Greek and without any conditions. I dream of a country with a second electronic public and all the officials standing, security officers, doctors and health nurses, teachers for education, auditors for justice and fair competition.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u253	This is where dreams are closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u254	I dream - and I conclude, Mr President - and I wonder why this word has been banished by this Chamber, the word 'dream'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u255	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, thirty students and students and three teachers attending the 22nd Bolos Municipal School. Welcome to Athens! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Igoumenides, Mr. Bored will be the lead, and then you are, for the reason I told you. Mr. Bored.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, at some point the late Harry Clynn, trying to describe the problem of the country, had said that the Greek had ceased to produce original thought. From this point of view, I would say - if this is the case - that the Greek Parliament is absolutely representative of this phenomenon, particularly during the eight-year-old memorials where this blindman and Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Georgiadis, had said that if the memorials were not invented, we should invent them. I would say that after eight and a half years of fiery experience we should probably reinvent ourselves. In order to get out of the memorials, the question is: Have we come out of our earlier self? It seems that this is not the case. When the powerful Eurozone, at its core, in Germany itself and the two, and the Social Democrats and Christian Democrats, have taken the platoon and put it down to nothing and harm their interests, what about this country, which has been tested for eight years with the Memorandums? For example, what is the case on the part of Officer Response? It says the Qualified Opposition that there can be no clear exit, since there is no financial space for this to happen. Is there anyone who's afraid of this prospect? Is there anyone who is concerned that it might have political consequences - if it actually occurs in the country, which needs this oxygen coming out after eight years - or cause him to be atavitic - politically I mean - fears or concern? As far as the government is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this: as I said before about the remembrance I mentioned, the government must take it and put it down - at this point I may have a little stirred up the technocratic rigidity of the previous one in Stepa - and see that the people who need to be relieved first are those who are most affected, those who have the most hurt during the memoranda, those who have taken, at the very least, the necessities which have been depraved during the memoranda, will drop it on the market and will not touch it on any of the safe so-called foreign banks. I also agree that the balance between measures and countermeasures cannot lead to further deterioration in burden-sharing. So we come out of the metaphysics, not to go automatically from hell to heaven, in the context of a political metaphysics, but to return to a social normality that is necessary for the leverage of the economy. It's the only way that the economy can be ejected and psychology changed. The country can stand on its feet again with its leading people, it can regain its lost prestige and strengthen its interventionist and leading role in the Balkans. In this context, I would like to say that the agreement reached is historic, in my personal opinion, if it is implemented as envisaged. Ladies and gentlemen, I am the last person to be charged with trial of intent in this Chamber. But I am absolutely convinced that those who cry in this Chamber for the name of Macedonia how much that is of interest to them. Others have in mind. The name was dismantled in 1990 with the well-known tragedies of the well-known protagonists. I am not just talking here about picturesque culture or neonazi insanity. This is more serious than that. For example, I think Mr Mitsotakis knows very well what the country's interests are. He knows exactly what a deal means, and if that's good for the country. And he knows it well and experientially, since his father tried to reach an agreement, when, if I remember correctly, the President of the Independent Greeks had been associated with the view of Constantine Mitsotakis, against the opinion of Mr Samaras. And the point is that, in his current practice, Mr Mitsotakis, in addition, is downgrading, if he does not completely eliminate, what he has done to shape the national policy in Bucharest. Unless the reason is precisely that, if such accounts are cleared up. In this case, we would have no reason to say whether it was an important issue concerning the historical perspective. In order not to abuse the time and because the speaker who preceded me has taken the matter forward, I would like to say this. Patriarchate is the attitude of those who envision a Greece not always surrounded, which prevents the creation of any arc, Muslim or other, which leads Greece to a leading role in the Balkans and the surrounding region, which balances with this intervening role of any risk, which is present. Our only real problem in foreign policy is our Eastern neighbour. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, if things go as they have been started, in the best possible way and in good faith among the two neighbouring peoples, I think that history will bring justice and will rank the rest in a small and possibly sad note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u257	By the time Mr. Borente replaces me, I invite Mr. Igoumenides to Step. Next is Mr Charakopoulos and Mrs Christophilopoulou. The first ten will be closed with Mr. Hadjisavva. Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that I am not personally surprised, because this is not the first time that Mr Georgiadis has been stumbled over on the thresholds and that Mr Georgios has been ludicrous, in my opinion, is not a personal difference or a personal issue. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] From this, the Step as a representative of the Central Association compared the Left, SYRIZA, with the Golden Dawn. And this thing - not on personal grounds - must, in my opinion, be revoked either by itself or by his Chief. Unless his party really has that view. To tell us, to discuss this on a different basis. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last three years, we have spent a three-year period of lies and fairy tales on the left side, which fortunately came right to restore the truth! First "false": After defeat and painful compromise, we plan, organize, so that we can get the country out of the memorials. Fortunately, the Right, the New Democracy, has come to restore the truth! “What are you talking about now? Fairy tales! In two or three months, the 'left parentheses' will be closed in the political history of the country. Secondly, we will organise access for our uninsured fellow citizens to the public health system. What does SYRIZA say now? This is where we have solved the matter. He also laughed at this "fucking fairy". Two and a half million finally came out, and the issue was so well solved by the previous Samara - Venizelos government, which I was still remembering, a doctor, the sick were then coming and giving them the drugs for the next two or three days. If you want, one of the reasons that made me take an active part in politics, it was him. The third is SYRIZA: we will share surpluses. I am not standing in their name, whether it is a third pension or what we call it. What are you talking about? Fairy tales! New Democracy has again come to restore the truth: “What surpluses will you share? There will be a 'cutter'. Let the Central Association and its introduction be seen. The 'twinks' have no end but I will not go any further. Last "funny": We come out of the memorials, says Left. "But, what do you say now? We are signing a fourth Memorandum.' Three years, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, neither your economic forecast nor your political assessment has been confirmed. Today, it does not collapse such a partial assessment, it breaks down your overall political account. Ladies and gentlemen, those who have led from the first to the second or brought to the verge of the third memorial, those who in the last three years have actually been characterised by trillions in the effort of the Left, those who have not had a troika, have had to invent, cannot hide their regrets about the success of our people. They cannot hide their grief for confirming the political positions and political choices of SYRIZA and the Left. And this sorrow - the gar of sorrow gives rise to insanity! - has turned them into Cassandras, who are tempting the bastions of the new Greece that we are trying to build. We leave the memos behind. Together we leave back the testimonies in misery and in their sterile catastrophe, we move, we plan, we organize, we build the memorial Greece together. Allow me here to give you a parentheses. Mr Theocharis: He wonders how some of our colleagues in the Opposition, how some left-wing MEPs, are in favour of not participating in the Greek programme. I will not dwell on the errors of the fund - they are innumerable - in the wrong assessments of the fund, in the wrong proposals, which it has made to address the problems of the Greek economy, in identifying, if you wish, ladies and gentlemen, the tough, neoliberal International Monetary Fund with the neoliberal policy of the New Democracy. I will not dwell on the fact that Berlin hides and hides its hard face behind the even tougher face of the fund. I believe that the contribution of the fund to the programme is very small in economic terms. Even the disabled Greek economy can withstand this economic size. I consider this to be a political matter. I believe, in practical terms, that the question is which political forces are opposed to participation or to the stay of the IMF in the programme. It is obvious that those who opened the doors and brought the fund will find it difficult to leave. In my opinion, however, it is of symbolic and real importance for a lender less for the place. The more limited the role of the fund in our country, the better for the country. And you know, I'm not just saying it today when we're leaving the memoirs. I will submit to the minutes this public position, which I had published on January 17, 2017 - a year and a half ago, in view of the second evaluation - in the newspaper 'AGEY'. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As I said, we are moving forward in the construction of the memorial Greece. We dream - and I use a pluralist one, because I am not the only one who dreams about it, I express from this Step and other colleagues on the Left and the rest of the people, the majority of our people - and we want a country where social justice, democracy, social solidarity and dignity will prevail. We are dreaming and wanting an economic growth that will move forward at the same time as respect for the environment and social protection. They want growth that will increase social inequalities. They want growth supported and supported in the peculiarities of Greek state capitalism, where its characteristics will be the paradox, tax evasion, distortive entrepreneurship, complexity, corruption. As the economically weakest were at the heart of our attention, at the center of our effort to get out of the memorials, so in my opinion youth, workers, the world of the spirit, these living social forces will be at the heart of the effort to build the new, memorandum Greece. I believe that the effort will be more difficult, the conflicts that await us will be stronger than the ones we have experienced up to now, there will also be cases where we need to take a step back, we will have defeats which are smaller or greater, but our will, our determination and - above all - to re-emergute and upgrade our relations with the living social forces, that is also the guarantee that we will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u259	Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the results of Mr Tsipras' negotiating capacity in the economy, which resulted in the signing of the third memorandum, but also in the commitment of the country to a fourth memorandum that breaks the myth of clean exit, are well known and painful. Unfortunately, however, even more painful are the results of the negotiation on the national issue of our dealing with Skopje. The solution that lies as an agreement with our northern neighbours, in which Greece delivers a name and language and identity, not only offends the majority of the Greek people, but serves the ideology of "Macedonism". When the Skopje are recognized as “Macedonians” and even as “Macedonians”, without the geographical designation of the name given to their country, it is obvious that the inhabitants of a piece of geographical Macedonia are monopolizing the name. While the Macedonians will be called Macedonians, our people of Northern Greece, who define themselves as Greek Macedonians, will give the impression to every unscrupulous stranger that they are minority Macedonians - Macedonians who live in Greece. So the last error will be first - handed. Also, it is incomprehensible that the Foreign Minister's argument for alleged recognition in 1977 of Skopje's language as Macedonian, despite the unequivocal disapproval of Professor Babiniotis, is incomprehensible. And asterisks that this language, a Bulgarian dialect, has nothing to do with the Greek language spoken by the ancient Macedonians, is about internal consumption. At the end of the day, what remains is a nation, the Macedonian, who speaks a language, the Macedonian. And this in itself serves alutism no matter how much changes are made to the Skopje Constitution. This agreement does not serve our national interests and, furthermore, it is not legitimate for the Prime Minister to sign it, when even his government partner does not vote for it. However, although Mr Kammens considers the agreement to be nationally harmful, he does not remove his support, his confidence in the government. No, for God's sake, he's not a chair! Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, do not commit the country with a painful agreement, as you commit it with the fourth memorandum, which we are discussing today, because you left-wingers, the sensitive ones, who have smashed memoranda in the squares of the indignant, talking about germans and traitors, were you who cut off the benefits of widows and children. By your votes, your ministers have checked pensions and wages, they have said that if duty-free under EUR 9,000 is reduced, they would resign. And now that it reaches 5,500 euros, Mr Tsakalotos whistles indifferently and disturbs him in this debate. In fact, in addressing our rapporteur, he spoke of a paradox. You have the nerve to talk about a clean exit from the memoirs. How clean is an exit that provides high surpluses for many more years? How clean is an exit when you vote for the drastic cut in pensions - both major and ancillary - to hundreds of thousands of pensioners? How clean is an exit, when tax-free from 2020, which means one and two wages minus? How many fairy tales can you tell the Greek people now, the one who thought you would abolish HIS and now you are coming to increase the property tax, and indeed, in the people's neighborhoods, you, the left, the protectors of the weak? And we are no longer talking about the free professionals, who have been tax-based on taxes, because you still anticipate increases in their insurance contributions since 2019, as you have done with the farmers who have believed you and they have voted for and received the thanks. So that's the kind of purity your exit has. But you, that's none of your business. What you care about is to close the eye on the voters, that “After August we will put you all in the public domain, because the troika will not tell us anything and “let the old bell””. You are desperately trying to hide that we are awaiting a supervisory mechanism, with new conditions and new terms and that you are mortgageing public property, the one you - and you alone! - You joined the superintendent, which no one else had before. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You, who called your political rival traitors, you who made divisive sermons, put your signature wide and bound the country's assets for a century. Such successes your nationalist government! And you come here and you're getting excited, instead of apologizing to the Greek people. However, this will be your final judge, as will the story that will write in black letters your passage from the country's rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u261	Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor from the PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the moments are too serious and are not at all for fairs. I can hear the Members from the Coup d'état celebrating this step. I don't know exactly why. One thing, however, is certain: what we are voting on today is, in fact, not the press, the fourth memorandum, because it is, without extra money, a series of burdens and commitments and supervisions that the country will have for too many years. Nor will what Mr Regling said today and saw the light of publicity, that Greece in the memorial period will have much tougher supervision than the other countries that left the memoranda, it seems to convince you. But we know very well - as the pensioners and workers and the free workers and the unemployed know - that not only did you come to power by saying 'No' to everything, but also by lying. You said that afterward. But all that you say today is also 'absolute'. Why, really, what did Mr Katrugalos say - and we had warned him - when the pension law was passed? That pensions will be increased, because GDP will be increased. The growth foreseen in the medium term is low. Pensions, however, are falling. Only in 2019 are reduced by EUR 2.5 billion. And then we said that the ESS will also be a past - as it has been done - and that the widows will remain unprotected - as they have remained, and we have tabled proposals for legislation which you are ignorant of - and that supplementary pensions will suffer multiple cuts and that, of course, the fragile personal difference, this 18% of pensions, will be easier to remove, as is done. And it's not just pension. It is also the tax-free, the EUR 1.9 billion for 2019, Minister of Economics, you are here. This EUR 1.9 billion reduction of the tax-free where is it going? Mr. Tsakalotos didn't resign. I know. He told us yesterday. He once said he'd resign. All the reduction in duty is really going to the backs of them, which have less income and more need. This is the class sign of your policies. The others, for left ideology and ideology, leave them. And, of course, the productive forces of the place, the free professionals, doctors, lawyers, are burdened with EUR 232 in addition to the already great contributions you have made by the Katrugalo Insurance Act. And one would say: Mr Tsakalotos as a professor of finance can explain to us - and I asked him to the committee, I did not get an answer, did you, Mr Juliarakis, rejoice to answer us - how is it possible, when you forecast in the mid-term between 2016 and 2022 an increase in the country's GDP by EUR 30 billion, at the same time predicting surpluses of EUR 57 billion? That is not just a tax burden. That will be the most unbearable package you've been through. So, how are you gonna take this off? I'm going down, because it's clear how you do it. It is clear that you still want to play games and create illusions, so that you do not get the preventive line, because - my own - will lead to memoirs. And now, what are we voting for? Pick up all the reserves of the institutions - beastly reserves - and collect them unconstitutionally for the Parliament and for the local government, as we have shown you, so that you can actually have a pillow so that you can make fun of the Greek people that you are coming out of the memorials. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] I want your tolerance, Mr President. I won't make much time. I shall end, ladies and gentlemen, with the incredible pogrom made by the left-wing government in local government. Weren't you the ones who defended local government? What exactly do you do with local government? Since you have removed a series of responsibilities so far, with the privileges of pre-emption, and after Mrs Fotio assured us that she will not harm central self-evident resources, you are doing the opposite. First of all, you are also reducing local government's money further, reducing the CAP because you have already acquired powers of anti-constitutional nature. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, as I have said, I need some time and your tolerance to complete this argument. Of the 3,358m euros scheduled for 2019, we have a reduction in EUR 2.510m. You reduced 848m euros from local government. And, furthermore, after you take their reserves, you also impose sanctions on them from above. You get them violent and unconstitutional, and what do you say? That the government legislates to reduce, in the event of a breach, the amount of the annual grant of the body, therefore the OTAs, and the withdrawal - so listen, ladies and gentlemen, what are you going to vote on - the members of the Board of Directors, its executive bodies and the Head of Finance? So, does the government dream that by a decision of two Ministers it will be able to clean up one-sided or collective organs of local government? Who? The mayor? The city council? The Executive Committee? Moreover, if this penalty is not for self-government, who is it for? And how can an official of self-government, head of staff, be appointed by two government ministers, by way of disciplinary procedures in place? It is the complete abolition of the self-employed, the complete violation of Article 102 of the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, what you are going to vote on and think about it well before you do. Otherwise, those who say that what you always wanted are to have all the power and impose a levelling-up, totalitarian regime of a party, a central state and a society that is levelled, a ranch of privileged people, who will have the various cards for piles and allowances. If that's your goal, then by subtracting powers from self-government, doing sanctions unacceptable to self-government, slowly and underminingly go there. Because today, the day that it is, we still have not seen your proposal on Macedonia, you know that mirrors stop selling and that at the same time that the Greek citizen cares about national issues, he cares about what has been going on for years. It is time, then, for you to finish and it is time for the Greek people to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u263	Mr. Hadjisavvas from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot understand how it is possible that SYRIZA, the New Democracy, the PASOK, all parties should be antimony and not speak against the memoranda and be in the Memorandum number 4. The new Memorandum, the fourth, and the measures, which it contains, have come together. I don't have to say anything more. Just to stress, it's extreme neoliberal, extreme capitalist, extreme anti-grass. Modern political extremes, you know, cannot be defined in a straight line. They are defined in a circle or even a bullet. So, you are extreme neoliberals and SYRIZA and ANEL and New Democracy and PASOK. You've all gone politically and ideologically. You are a mass of extreme neoliberal capitalists, the worst. You are fighting for who will best serve the European Union of bankers, contractors, Germans and Merkel and you are across - and enemies - by a system of economic and social law, which should have a reference point for the state - nation. Fortunately, however, for us and the peoples of Europe - unfortunately for you - many countries in Europe have started and implemented. It is now clear that you are actually together. You are together in the economic measures and in the memoranda, together with national issues, such as the complex name you are going to give to Skopje. Because it is an ideological leap that SYRIZA should come to the New Democracy's position for a complex name and give it away. The question, which is rightly raised, is this: Since you are together and claim this central neoliberal space, why do you download separate lists and do not go directly to a list in the next elections? And to do what our Chief Nikos Michaloliakos says, that on the one hand it is Golden Dawn and on the other hand it is the party of political parties. Wait until the elections are held and you'll work together later. As far as the memorials are concerned, I will not only say my own, nationalistic, 'Golden's', these extremes. I will mention what Alexis Tsipras said before, and I will add a small or large comment. And when I say "before" I mean before he became Prime Minister, before the memorials, before the referendum, etc. So he said Alexis Tsipras before we have to get out of the memorials if we want to get out of austerity. For the time being, however, you are imposing and applying memos such as they have not been so well implemented by the New Democracy and the PASOK. He said the memorials meant barbarity and submissiveness, blackmail and hostage. Who are the above exercisers of you now? In society and economicly weak layers are implemented. He said SYRIZA wouldn't sign up for memos, 'cause nobody's keeping him from anyone else and they only sign up for those who keep them from somewhere. So after you brought two memos, someone's keeping you from somewhere. Unless the Prime Minister comes out to say he didn't know what he was talking about or saying it wrong. You knew what you were talking about. You just didn't expect things to work out that way. He said that we should put an end to the memorials, with every number and every language. Let's start first of all the numbers, which are nice. So your third and fourth memorandum belongs to you and you have the greatest responsibility. Although on the third, he put the rest of the Memorandum Arc back, so that the SYRIZA government wouldn't fall, because Kammenos and Annell were so mean. As for the language, it is like you are avenged by the dictators who give you orders, so that there are no delays in translations and, above all, that you understand them better, because in the financial staff you think English. So they have started and your orders are sent directly to English. He also said that the Memorandum tyranny should be overthrown. So in tyranny, what has changed now with your own memoirs? Is there tyranny now? Who's the tyrant? How should the democrat patriot Greek react against the tyrant? He said that there should be a change of course and perspective in the euro area. So you agree with the pathogenesity of the euro area and the euro, and we will have to change course. In my question answered by Mr Tsakalotos, he admitted that the memos were only in favour of saving the European Union and the euro. He also said about managing the memorials, that you can't manage them properly. You cancel or apply. There is no interim situation and no proper management. So you clearly decided not to cancel, bring them in and apply them. You did not bury them deeply, as you said that only this can save the Greek people from austerity. You have, of course, buried the tomahok of your antimonetary war, along with the junkers, the duouls, labour rights, social freedoms. Some government MPs, however, see growth behind all of this and we see betoniers returning to the streets. People don't see that. And if he sees beetones going back to the street, he's afraid some hot spot is built in his neighborhood or some toll. You're filled with tolls everywhere. What does Phil say, though, and he exposes you? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President. Austerity will continue and it is wrong to reduce pensions. The superstition turned Greece into a debt colony. The countermeasures will be given to economically strong and not to patients. The high surpluses are shrinking the economy and do not develop it. That's what Phils says. Of course, with all the above, you thought that the world would only deal with the memorial measures, their survival and they would not care about national issues. But you totally fell out. The rallys proved exactly the opposite. The reactions of your world show even now that you're not on the right track. We therefore call on the people with Greek flags to come on Friday at 10:00 an hour outside the House and to react to what is happening, to react in every way and every opportunity. They should be here for a start on Friday outside the House to give the national presence. Greece is experiencing the third phase of the Macedonian Liberation Struggle, which began with the collapse of the Ottoman Empire against the Slavs, mainly the Bulgarians. You should understand that people can't stand what you're going to go through. Society's boiling out. I don't know what your environment says. But, as I said, you have already made a leap to get to New Democracy for the Skopje issue. We, as Golden Dawn, say that there is no negotiation - not just agreement, not even negotiation - for the use of the term 'Macedonia', which all the other parties accept. It must not be done and one cannot negotiate, which is not what one owns. For thousands of years Macedonia has been among the thousands of dead heroes who have spilled their blood for its liberation and belonged to the born and unborn children of our nation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Spyridon Lykoudis has the floor, and then Mr. Koukoutsis. Here, Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if we wanted to give some credit to the government now, which says that our suffering has ended and we are coming out of the memorials, it would primarily be praised for its undeniable capacity in political editing. The national pride was saved, when the troika was renamed to institutions, with the very same persons, when the humble offices of the Ministries were replaced by the luxurious rooms of Hilton for the meetings and negotiations and when the third memorandum, in the eight years of the crisis, was well-known and neutrally in a "support programme". In other words, we are not borrowing, the others are supporting us. It is not about the savage cuts of pensioners, but about the 'important impact on the development of pension expenditure, which is about to be reformed', as with a nerve it is recorded, unless someone sees it as a sense of humor. I understand the difficult position of fellow Members of Parliament, but sincerely, I do not share it, because I hope they have found the time to read, to understand the totals of more than five hundred pages and not to be shaken by the urgency of the procedure, which we have all once conquered, but which I sincerely do not understand how easily they applaud. I also hope, apart from the savage pension cuts, that the social state's primary expenditure on social benefits is reduced in the period 2019-2022 from 53% to 48% and a number of other interventions, such as the total abolition of the CSR, to identify cynicity, which is professed that much of it is called 'balanced social interventions, to be financed by the reduction of pensions'. In other words, we break pensioners, to make social security benefits, while pensions are not only downstaffed, but will also remain stagnant until 2022. The surpluses of the previous ones, ladies and gentlemen, were bloodshed, while the beasts and non-required today are Godfather. I also hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you have noticed that the main source of the available funds of EUR 29 billion for the medium-term period in relation to the Public Investment Programme comes from 80% of Community input on page 182. Now that you have exempted us from German occupation troops, do you have the curiousness to read out which country contributes to the Community budget in 1/5, from which will this money come? When, ladies and gentlemen, will you be ambushed, and yet will you insist on making plans? Ladies and gentlemen, the governmental circles, whatever they are going through, and however intense propaganda is practicing and using, will not ultimately avoid responding to the well-known vague questions that will follow them wherever they are. Firstly, why would they have to bring the country on the edge of the cliff, harm it, at least, by EUR 100 billion, to find itself in the situation that was - as they all recognise - at the end of 2014, but with a worse starting point and more risks? To give an answer at last. Secondly, if they are going to repeat the dances in the Constitution, let them explain to the citizens when they were right: When they signed the third memorandum with lamentations and tears in public or now that they abundant, fleeing the emergency exit, precisely because they applied the measures of the Memorandum and, indeed, as king's king's king's king? Irrespectively or rightly mourn? How can the "extortion" measures of our partners, which were forced to accept by heart spasm, be presented as a huge success? Thirdly, do they have something themselves to show as a distinct contribution to the success of exits, such as in the field of education, in hospitals, in health care, in the quality of administration, in the dismantling of the state, in public services to the citizen, in public well-being and in security, in transport, etc., in addition to the bleeding of taxpayers and the abstract tax pursuit? I don't have time to go on. I could list too much. Ladies and gentlemen, a young Greek economic migrant during the crisis said in the paper "New York Times" on June 6 in an article on leaving our young people: "When you realize that your country has become a graveyard, you are trying to find dreams elsewhere". Yeah, that's right. We all have our responsibilities as political parties, as trade unionists, as social actors, as consumers, as politicians individually, as institutions, as a state, as administration, as ordinary citizens, as parents. I, speaking from this Step now, have a share of responsibility. More important, however, is the crash of the dreams of the new generation than the one he is experiencing today, never before. Ladies and gentlemen, the shattered exit from the memoranda should also be accompanied by the exodus of the political sequence of populism of every cut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u267	Independent MEP Mr Koukoutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. In 2018 the difference between capitalism, socialism, etc. was heard in this Chamber. and what has been applied to this country. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, in this country I wish we had capitalism or socialism or any other system. It was all here - let me express - the glue - a life. All 'yaddez', all 'démi'. No one understands - except perhaps those who handle the spotlight and the background in this country - that Greece, with what is being done and with what is to be followed, leads to a complete economic paralysis and dependency. So today this second medium-term fiscal adjustment framework for the period 2019-2022 comes to us to the "clean exit" announced by the government. All this, of course, is already passed, from all the wings. But it's a multi-project left inspiration. And that means that it is humanitarian, friendly, with a sign of internationalism. On the left and on Mr. Tsipras, the world leaders found the political field and man - a tool through which they will process their interests in Greece and in the wider Balkan area, without opening a nose, without opening a nostril. On the other hand, weakened, weak, because of its disorientation ideologically unorientated right, enables the Left to make its own game comfortable. At one time the urban political world was surrounded by a series of spiritual people of large calibres, with a reliable mechanism in society and a consistently ideological direction. Now it's just the opposite. Today's polynomial plan - an abortion covers a wide range of memorial outstandings, which relate to pre-privileged benefits, the sale of PPC's units, the strengthening of the role of financial prosecutors, in changes in the bankruptcy code. It includes provisions of the Ministry of Tourism, an increase in the required participation in the call for strikes in primary clubs and many more. Let the citizens not worry. Let's not fight. Indirectly or directly, the scrub will all taste it and it cannot be done otherwise, of course, since the Marxist idealism will share it equally. Be sure. Of course, government actors continue to mock us, saying that in 2019 pension cuts will be equivalent to equal countermeasures. With this bill, all the myths are falling apart and great lies are revealed, that Greece is ending with the memorials, since new burdens are already on the people of 18.5 billion euros. SYRIZA at some point, as happened with others in the past, convinced the electorate that it would probably not be like the others. He took over the rulership of the country, with promises of a measured governance, mainly for economics, and a different conception of the exercise of power, is supposed to be. The reality has, however, shown only poor manipulations, lack of management control, chatter, measurable propaganda and micropolitics. Speaking of propaganda, what about this lady at ERT? People laugh every noon. You once laughed at the "Echo of the Facts" and Vangelis Bistikas, but now it's much worse. All that's missing are children on her show with red scarves and hammers saying "Essanna in the highest" in Alexis Tsipras. It's too much evil. People are laughing. Honestly, it's bad for you. The reality is that. The deadly memorial tombs that continue, the growing poverty and, more generally, the failures deplete, even the positive one, which could arise. Unfortunately, the political world, but also the citizens, have not understood the scale of the problem and the economic data show that our prospect will be bleak in the near future. Here is the need for a long-term plan, a political project of holistic overthrowing of the structures currently existing in the economy and society. A plan with wider political acceptance, consensual and realistic is needed. The impression has been given that 2018 will be a starting point for normalization and relief of the world from the suffering of the memorandum. Have you considered what we've done all these years of the crisis? Have reforms been made? Is our productivity and international competitiveness increased? Is it ever possible for the budgetary adjustment to be made only for cuts and taxes? What are we producing? Is there an institutional framework? Is there a tax framework? Is justice rendered? What did we do about research and innovation? Let's assume we're reading the door out of the memos and starting a new course. Do we have the possibility of going forward? Do we have the opportunity to move creatively? Did we root out any of the causes that brought the crisis all these years? When will we be overlooking our real problems and intensifying codification, division, polarization in Greek society? Our country is currently blocked, and as much as it hurts, it's a protectorate! Is it ever possible for a protectorate not to be on permanent economic and, above all, political dependence? So this will give the people the impression that Greece is getting into an alleged normality. Thus, the sovereign people will have the impression that they are living in an independent country now and the country's political staff will show that they have positions, differences and, above all, that they are not directed. The fruitfruits will hopefully come back, the fairness of the fairness of the country will stand aside. There is cosmology, ladies and gentlemen, in Europe, in the world all, in the Balkans, but above all in our region, and we are the poor relative. Whatever we say in this Chamber, the truth is out on the street. The workers, the entrepreneurs, the pensioners and the workers know it. Depression and bitterness! And when the glance of the cosmack is blurred, he can't look either left, neither right, nor downtown. He'll turn his gaze everywhere and then things will be hard. As for Skopje, what do we say? Only how life brings them. Pressure across the Atlantic to close the issue. Who? To the political ancestors of SNOV. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u269	Mr Jason Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, if we wanted to put a title in today's bill, we could call it 'Standard in the fairy tale of clean exit'. In fact, this bill is nothing but ratification of the fourth memorandum, the first without funding. In fact, you've accomplished the impossible. From the'money without a memorandum', we arrived at the'monument without money'. We will have 14.5 billion m, hard austerity in the next five years, wage and pension cuts. One or three pensions will be lost by public and private pensioners, one wage each low. So, so that we do not forget how you protect the weaker ones. Two words about the surpluses, for they are indeed the epitome of the deception and lies of the SYRIZA - ANEL. Mr. Tsipras described in 2014 the government's surplus of Samaras as a surplus of misery, tragedy, blood, a surplus of sadness and fraud. He said attributes in March 2014 -- listen, ladies and gentlemen, what your Chief said - about the surpluses: "I have no surplus in bowages in front of Mrs Merkel and the lenders like Mr Samaras." By the way, Mrs Merkel to the Italians as an example of subjection to the institutions did not mention Mr. Samaras, but Mr. Tsipras, saying: "Look, when there were elections in Greece and Alexis Tsipras became Prime Minister, there were many questions at the table. We talked a lot, a lot of nights, but we did something." I'm figuring out the relevant things for anyone who wants to remember. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jasson Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And Mr. Tsipras continues: "We left, SYRIZA, are proud of other surpluses. For our surplus in struggles, fighters, who even gave their lives for the cause of the people and our surplus in truths, battles against the memorials and those who have undertaken to enforce them in the country, local and foreign. I put it in the Minutes for anyone who wants to remember what Mr. Tsipras said. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's what Mr. Tsipras said about the surpluses in 2014. And how much were those surpluses? Let's remember. They were up to 4.5%. They would end in 2018, i.e. this year. And they were based, according to all the studies, on development. And there were few measures of austerity up to 1 billion, as predicted by the famous mail Hardouveli. What have you brought us now that you've become a government? Surplus of 5.2% per annum by 2023 and measures totalling 14.5 billion on the basis of overtaxation of citizens and businesses, according to all the studies, such as that of the State Accounting Office, in which your partner, Mr Koutedakis, is headed. So that's for the surpluses. As for the infamous countermeasures, once again Mr. Tsipras gave the same interview - if you can read it - in 2014 says: "We consider an act of shame, an act of humiliation and an act of humiliation of every citizen of the country, on the one hand, to grab his bread from the table and, on the other, to throw away some crumbs to buy it." That's what Mr. Tsipras said. Mr Philis mentions the countermeasures: "The countermeasures of the government do not concern pensioners, who will not see any reduction in tax-free income for either." Here's what Mr. Friend said. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jasson Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The truth is that the countermeasures concern pensioners and wage earners. Because their implementation presupposes their definitive strangulation. I'll say a few words about the IMF. What you achieved is unique. The IMF, which you now want - I don't know why I'm saying it, because last year you wanted it out, and then you sent letters and you asked it to come back - has certain positions, which we all agree, such as the need for debt cuts and others, to which we disagree, such as reductions in pensions and taxfree. You've accomplished the unbelievable. The IMF's proposals for pension reductions and tax relief were incorporated in this supplementary memorandum, but nothing about debt haircuts, which goes to the bells. In other words, instead of getting the IMF's good stuff and avoiding evils, we did exactly the opposite. Congratulations! But the cherry on the cake is article 109 of the bill. Public property of 25 billion will be a pledge in the hands of the supergovernment, which only you dared to accept its creation, and of which the majority of the administration belonged to the lenders for the next 100 years. It's the price of your untrustworthyness. It's the first time left. Thank you. Finally, just to say a word about health. Mr Ministers of Health - I don't see anyone here right now - it's not worth telling yourself how good things are in health, how good things are in hospitals. It's worth someone else to say about you, or you just bless your beards. I want to talk very much about the health situation and try to speak with the parliamentary control procedure. For the last four months, I have asked timely questions, but it has not been claimed that I have been honoured by a Minister with his presence. I will only say about the amendment number 1619 and a specialist number 249, which is really disgraceful of you. It refers to the 'PHILOS' programme through which you and your Government have set up a mechanism for hundreds of recruitments for superiors through European funds. And the supervision of the AACC, which you say, is literally, for the eyes of the world, as we know how the relevant tables were re-issued, that is, in such a way that your own people and not others could be hired, using a set-up mechanism, on the pretext of the refugee. However, whatever you plan to do, the time in the shop is now over by all the Greeks have understood and will give you the answer you deserve, very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u271	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine students and students and five educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Vineyards Larissa. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Rabbit has the floor from Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u272	It is so much the enthusiasm of the Greek Parliament, of this group, which does what it wants to do, that today when new measures are coming, unforgettablely, for the Greek people, new robbery raids against the ordinary Greek citizen - today or yesterday, if I remember you well - you made your agreement here, you made the share of the pie you have: another 12.5 million euros from the stallion of the Greek people you will share with each other the parties of fraud. Well, that's good. So it's the money you're getting and sharing between you to make your debt. The debt, however, not to the Greek citizen, but to the international loan sharks who have established you and give you the orders of how you should behave. You all of SYRIZA, the left-wing rebels, are you not ashamed, when you see that they are congratulating you from America, from Europe, all these international loan sharks, who have been fighting for so many years, who have been marching at their expense, who have burned flags? Aren't you ashamed to read today that your name is Bravo, why do you grant the name of our Macedonia? Don't you feel bad? I, my leader Nikos Michaloliakos and all the other Members of Parliament feel bad and feel conspired, as little as we are, just as we are right now among you. We feel guilty just about it. Aren't you a little embarrassed? What are you going to tell your own people? This is not about financial measures, about which you were wrong, all right, well, let's fight it, and we'll turn it over a few years. How do you feel? What are you going to tell your parents, your friends, your children? That it was you who signed the signatures and you were afflicting the name of our Macedonia? And not only the name, because in a few years' time - in five, six, ten years - the Skopje will, of course, claim and win other things. It's not just the name. How do you feel? How can you look at each other and not be ashamed of what you do in Greek fossils? You have the courage to speak and speak and say that you are legislating and you are here to defend the Greek people. Where's your sensitivity? Last week twenty-four rallys were held in twenty-four cities in Greece. There were people everywhere. Everywhere the Greeks came out with blue-white and said that the name of Macedonia is sacred and you are too young to negotiate it and you are even smaller and nothing to sell. The Greek people do not allow you to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u273	Listen, please. If you want to continue, change your style.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u274	You listen to me. Can I change my look?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u275	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u276	Now do you mind the look, besides my words?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u277	Let go of your characterizations. That's what I'm telling you. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u278	Normally, we should behave otherwise. You're lucky we're acting like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u279	Respect the space in which you speak. If you don't respect him, you can go out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u280	Bolshevike, the space I speak, should respect the will of the Greek people and not write 75% of Greek citizens in their old shoes, who do not want to sell the name. You will respect Greek citizens first, you will be operating in the Greek Parliament with respect and not as if it were your home, because you are managers and you must manage the events that are happening, because tomorrow you will be going back to your homes again and nobody will remember you. The name of our country...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u281	You're done?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u282	No, I'm not done. I still have a lot of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u283	If you want to finish, I told you the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u284	You'll hear more. We'll keep talking about what we want to say. The name of Macedonia has not been given you the right to sell it. If you dare, make a referendum to see what the Greek people say and then do. This is a process. You can't, you who are playing it defenders of 0.0%, of the kinaids, doing parades outside, or some of the junkies that say "go for the hashish" and go and get high, be you who will vote in favour of these rights, but with the Greek citizens who fight for Macedonia, be against. What are you, anyway? Democrats? Fascists? I say you're the definition of tyranny. For you it's democratic what's of interest to you. What is not of interest to you is undemocratic. So we are coming with so many interventions, which you have made, Mr President, and you have stopped me, because I will need another minute, in that the seasons we are experiencing are very critical and bad. The seasons we live, it's a curse. It is a wish for those who have the courage to resist the throat that exists and is a curse for all the others who go in and choose this camp. Everyone's free to follow where they're going to be. I said before - and you interrupted - that you will not be here after a while. We don't even know where we'll be. But the name of Macedonia will have given it. You won't be here to say what you're saying today, that there's nothing going on, but here's no way anyone else will be there then to fight for what you've done. The New Democracy did so in 1993, had opened the ferry for the Macedonian - scorpion issue and is coming to us today to play the defender of the Macedonian struggle, which it has sold out. We therefore call on the Greek citizens to take the situation in their hands. The Greek Parliament is inconsistent with the will of the Greek people. The Greek Parliament does other things. The patriotism of the Greeks and the feeling of vigilance, which they have, must make them rise up from the sofas, as they have done and come to the squares on Friday at 10 a.m., while the betrayal government tells us that it gave the name of Macedonia and will rejoice. On that day Greek citizens will be with blue-white people out of this building. Greek citizens will be the ones who will show you that you are in perfect contrast with the Greek people. You don't deserve anything else. You need to leave an hour earlier. You're extremely dangerous for the place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u285	Mr. Gülekas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u286	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the fourth memorandum, which is the subject of the Greek people and which you bring from the back door. As you call it, supplementary, up-to-date, it is the fourth memorandum and it is your second memorandum which, as a government, you bring to this place. There are a lot of things you could say. Along with everything, it is only enough to point out that you, the SYRIZA - ANEL government, Alexis Tsipras, the "protector of the poor and the weak", once again, with the measures you vote on tomorrow in this House, will cut pensions, once again bring new burdens to low-paid and low-paid people, those who are supposedly defended, once again you will charge them with more weight for real estate tax. Once again, then, the Greek people will pay you and pay you very much. But I will not speak more about this fourth memorandum, ladies and gentlemen. After all, our rapporteur and many speakers have said so in this Chamber. I will talk about this historic day, which we lived last night, when we heard the Greek Prime Minister feel nationally proud of the proclamation he made to the Greek people, saying that we were able to achieve a victory that was evident in the negotiations with Skopje. What have you done, ladies and gentlemen? You're nationally proud, why did you manage to recognize that the Macedonians live above the northern border? Because you recognized them as Macedonians. Are you nationally proud that you recognized the Macedonian identity of the Macedonians? But language and identity constitute the nation, the nation of the Macedonians. And these, along with the name, are the vehicle of aluterism. And what name? What will apply between us, this 'Severna Makedonija' or what will apply to all others, the 'Republic of Northern Macedonia'? We're waiting to see the deal, so we can find out exactly what you're doing. There goes the 'erga omnes'. And that's why you're proud? You were indifferent and deaf, when hundreds of thousands of Greek citizens protested at the syllables for your camels, for what you were trying to do. You were deaf. And yesterday I told you, when Alexis Tsipras was in the President of the Republic, Mr Pavlopoulou - I was at the Step at that time - that if you go over the red lines, you will endure our future, but also the future of the coming generations. And that's not what you have the right to do, much more, when Alexis Tsipras does not negotiate as Prime Minister of the country, since the government, which is basically the one that supports him, has different views within it. Your key partner, Mr. Kammenos and the Independent Greeks, have said that they will vote against whatever agreement you bring and that they will do everything they can to prevent this agreement from coming into force. So how does Alexis Tsipras negotiate? As Prime Minister or as Head of SYRIZA? And how are you, ladies and gentlemen? You are, unfortunately, the fateful people, who have respected the centuries and the history, what we have kept with many struggles, with many sacrifices, with much blood, delivered it overnight. You have sold out Macedonia, ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, this place has always paid for fatal errors and has always paid the fatal people. He will therefore pay you very much, but be sure he will return the price to you in the elections. And that price he'll pay you, it'll be very hard for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Paradisepoulou from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u288	Ladies and gentlemen, we are in front of an agreement which will make us stronger in the Balkans. I think that at the moment we should see her in a very different way. However, I do not want to get away from the main issue of legislation and my own contribution. There is a difference in this legislation from the memoranda which we have known in the past. The memorials were lion agreements. On the one hand, we were offered loans and money, which we needed and the country's stay in monetary union. On the other hand, what did we offer with the legislation? We offered measures of austerity dictated and pressed, but as terms and we also offered organisational measures to ensure the repayment of the debt. Right now, what else do we have before us? First of all, we have a piece of legislation that comes in the middle of an assessment and is practicable, that is, it does not include new measures, but it ensures the implementation of regulations, which were also in 2015 and then. At the same time, however, this legislation comes for the first time as a precursor not to a single dose, but to a regulation of debt, a regulation which can now, over the long term, help our country to stand on its feet, without its hard debt and, of course, remain part of the international economic community. Despite the fact that this legislation has on the other hand something that is more advanced, namely debt regulation, it is mild. It's the mildest of all of the previous ones. Of course, it is mild because, in its structure, the country's positive path of economic indicators, which speakers from the anti-politics are accustomed to overcoming, such as job growth, improving export indicators and overcoming the predetermined primary limits for primary surpluses, has affected. But that's not all. It's not just that the law is mild. In one respect, it is a piece of legislation, which has domestic and left features, which are contrary to international market flows. What are these? That may sound kind of heavy, but I'll explain. What is the characteristic of modern capitalism? I have said this once again, as my personal view, that he is not so interested in integrating consumers into the customer cycle, but that he who thinks that he is incapacitated prefers to let them go to the public - and I say it literally - or to be closed in various warehouses, which may be in the form of a prison, from which no one ever comes out or in the form of a ghetto. The main feature of the most recent capitalism is this tendency to social exclusion, and I would say eternal, life-threatening, of the weak. This legislation, however, has rules which help precisely the lower order, precisely the very weak ones. I would remind you that the beneficiaries of social solidarity income increase. Expansion of the prosthetic benefits, which are provided for persons with disabilities and additional categories. Attention, even to the homeless. It even introduces definition of the homeless. Ensuring generic, with zero participation for the patient in time. Facilitating the provision of eyeglasses. Increase the skills in daily care units. Additional facilities for the impossible and incomplete debtors, resurrecting possibilities of entering an out-of-court settlement and releasing deposits, and providing for additional favourable measures for first-resident loan debtors. As all this is in favour of the lower class, what do the opposition say? Right what does it say? It says: it is all well because it cannot ignore the fact that the lower class is assisted, but it is the middle class which is compressed. Yes, but it is the middle class, which is currently experiencing the consequences of improving exports and reducing unemployment. And all of this brings nothing but growth, which the middle-class of course needs. It is said, of course, that no measures have been taken to limit the financial strengths and the elite. However, it is this government that has adopted measures for offshore as well and is of course trying to limit the phenomenon of the almighty economic order, which they want to be above the law, with many measures to limit corruption, which we also know here in Parliament, thanks to the committees which have operated and operated. I am referring to maritime loans and to the restriction of the pharmacopoeia's superprofits, against public finances and other measures, which have shown this restriction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u289	And the canals!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u290	Why can this government do it? Because it has speakers who do not make courage only because they do not have a risk of being exposed, because of the good balance of their super-profits with offshore and so on. Synthetic and in a few words, to finish. Of course, things can't be pomegranate, all of a sudden. Other speakers have said that. However, we do change page and the benefits are important. We inspire our international credibility, we press on solid ground, and we can hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u291	Thank you. Mr Ursouzidis Georgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we are voting for the completion of a difficult effort, which lasted for eight really difficult years. But he didn't come by at all. Obviously, it is not our evil that roots nor God hates us. This difficult period in our country came as a practice of the previous decades, which things did not work, as the overwhelming majority of the Greek people would wish, but unfortunately, dominated interests which were diverse with politics. The well-known state-owned businessmen, the banking system, which, if anything, showed too much tolerance, I would say, created a situation that, when we took over in 2015, we felt that it could be characterized as a complete disaster. The people in despair, the impoverishment of diffuseness, an environment which I think is going to pass in the past, and that can only satisfy the good colleagues of anti-population. As much as they want to hide, that's a reality. The government, the Prime Minister, therefore, received a country destroyed, both economically and morally. But after three and a half years he managed to complete a difficult effort. The country is going through another era. He ruled three and a half years without any financial scandal. This is happening for the first time in our country. It has succeeded in lifting chronic injustices at the expense of our country in the field of foreign policy. On 21 June 2018, therefore, at the Eurogroup meeting, debt regulation is expected to become sustainable. That means, at the same time, the big change so that the country can go through to normality. I would like to remind you of some of the issues that we have dealt with and to which I believe we have responded successfully. In the health sector, therefore, everyone remembers the situation brought about by previous administrations. Anyone who had money or "bar to Koronis" had access to health. It all went one way or another to the private state sector. Despair and despair to the citizens. Affliction, because the structure that had created and paid for it in blood, was seen to be sold out, passed into the hands of the scientists in the field of health. Despair because access was becoming more and more difficult, even impossible, for some. Today all Greek citizens have access to health, to a national system which works, of course, with problems. But it works and everyone has access to gaining a piece of what they deserve, even though it is limited. However, it is accessible and this has happened, not for any other reason, but for the reason that the hatreds have been limited, which have for many years plundered the area of health. The other issue that dealt with this debate concerns pensions. The question, for too many decades - and it remains a matter of course - is the balance of the system so that the citizens, together with it, can survive. So pensions are calculated with the new law that we passed in May 2016 and personal differences arise. Yes, there will be differences, of course, and pensions will be reduced to between 2% and 18%. All low-wage pensioners and, in particular, farmers are excluded. Six hundred thousand pensioners are not going to be affected. However, all this remains under the government's control of the surpluses of 1 billion, which occurs in the ECA, in order to minimise any reductions. Another issue concerns the superstition. There's been a lot of talk. In 2010, the superstition, which has a life of ninety years and not as you claim, was established, that the property of Greek citizens has been committed for ninety years. After all, too many companies of the Greek state, such as the "ATTYMERO", have a duration of ninety years. It is a company, however, owned by 100% of the Greek State, since the forty thousand shares, one to 1,000 euros, belong to the Greek State and that is how they will remain. In other words, there is no possibility of transferring these shares. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude in a minute, Mr President. The question arises: Really, after three years of operation of the surplus fund, how many things have been sold out, as you claim? Absolutely nothing. We make your own commitments and one of them is the Greek, which while since February 2014 had matured the contract, you signed it two months before you lost the election. Really, you who thought this project would bring the economic recovery of the place, why did you delay? What was the reason? Or were they in exchange? Finally, I will close my intervention with the tax reliefs created by the financial sector, which we have managed to work on. In 2019, 700 million will go to tax evasions, in 2020 a total of 579 million, in 2021 will go 825 million and in 2022 will go 1.460. Those aren't words. They are commitments, which are guaranteed by the vote of this bill. So no matter how hard you're trying, I think you can't hide. It can only satisfy you that way out of the memoranda and the application of a rational system, I would say, of taxation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, too. Minister Panos Skourletis has the floor for a legislative improvement, and then the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Papanatziou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr President. These are two legislative improvements. The first subparagraph of Article 2(4), which is replaced by the following: ‘In cases where regulatory acts are required, decisions of the competent ministers shall be adopted on the recommendation of the institution’. The second moves in the same spirit. It shall apply to the end of paragraph E of Article 11. After the words ‘the Ministers for the Interior and Finance’, the words ‘After the relevant recommendation and assent of the body’ are added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u295	Mrs. Papanatsiou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before we talk about the bill, I should like to refer to the much-discussed issue of objective values and HISPIA. The truth is that this is a difficult equation, but everyone understands that the objective values are not entirely identical to the tax. On the substance, an increase in the objective does not necessarily mean an increase in the tax. Secondly, the revision of the objectives has been committed by the country since 2012 and was incorporated into the agreement with lenders - L.4046/2012 - with the commitment of the then government. Thirdly, it must be stressed that no legal attention has been taken to revising them throughout the period, both before you create, ladies and gentlemen, the ENPIA, as well as then today. We've been talking for at least a decade. Fourthly, as you can see from the previous and in the narrow margins, for this year we have gone extremely far on the calculation of objective prices through the transparent process through certified valuers who have knowledge, know-how and increased guarantees of independence. Fifth, the ministerial decision adopted yesterday explicitly states that the new objective values will be taken into account by the administration only for the purpose of calculating the EMCDDA for 2018, while for the remaining taxes a time limit will be given until 1-1-2019, in order to properly calculate and give the necessary adjustment time. While with regard to municipal taxes - fees, it is known that it is at the discretion of the municipalities to harmonise them and they are not legally binding. Now let's go a little bit to the objective elements. Of the ten thousand two hundred and sixteen zones of the Greek territory, a price reduction is observed in two thousand and twenty-two zones, a percentage of 21%. Prices remain stable in four thousand three hundred two-tier zones, 42%, while an increase of three thousand seven hundred ninety-two, 37%. Next point is the tax. The final results of one of the most difficult actions of the negotiation are to a large extent entitled to us as the best possible adjustment has undoubtedly been achieved in order to avoid extreme tax effects and to achieve the minimum possible burden of the social majority. So for a million four hundred seventy thousand ninety-two natural persons, 23%, there will be reductions. For three million ninety-five thousand, eighty-one, ENPI will remain unchanged, 62%, and for seven hundred thirty-seven thousand nine natural persons, 12%, there will be a small increase of between EUR 1 and 50 and an average of EUR 12. For a hundred and sixty thousand natural persons it will increase from 50 to 200 euros and for forty-eight thousand ninety-one natural persons the ENPI will increase over 200 euros, which is 0.7%. Let's see what comes from the above elements. It appears that for 97% of the taxpayers of natural persons the liquidation of HNVIA will be reduced, unchanged or minimal growth. A similar picture is also for legal persons where for 91% of clearing houses will be reduced, stable or increased up to EUR 50. Finally, as far as the amendment we tabled and informed you a little while ago by the Minister of Finance, I would like to point out the following: we are setting up for the first time at the end of January next year as the date of the last instalment of the ENPI, instead of in December of the year of liquidation in force since the adoption of the law. We expressly predict that the first dose will be paid in September, thereby ensuring that the number of doses will always be five. We are increasing the number of zones under the lowest rate, EUR 2 per square metre, increasing the range of the first step, which was between EUR 0 and 500. We are accordingly increasing the number of zones subject to a coefficient of EUR 2,9 instead of EUR 3,7 per square metre, increasing the third step from 750 to 1000 to 750 to 1.050. Finally, by achieving a spectacular containment of the new objective prices in HISIA, we are increasing the tax rate for the additional tax of EUR 200,000 today, at EUR 250,000. As I told you yesterday, we are already working on more detailed data on the impact of the new objective prices and HISPIA on taxpayers. So today we have more detailed data not only on the reductions you have asked for, but also on the increases. This evidence denies everything that has been heard so far. In particular, for eight hundred and ninety-three thousand and thirty-two taxpayers there is a reduction of up to EUR 50 with an average reduction of EUR 22. On the contrary, an increase of up to EUR 50, an average of EUR 12, comes for seven hundred thirty-seven thousand seven hundred nine taxpayers. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Similarly, reductions from EUR 50 to EUR 100 in their clearing houses will see three hundred and fifty thousand ninety taxpayers, and increases from EUR 50 to EUR 100 will see a hundred thousand sixty-one people, that is more than three times less. Greater reductions of between EUR 100 and 500 will see two hundred and four hundred four hundred eighty-three people, while equal increases will only see ninety-sixty-sixty-six natural persons, two and a half times below. Finally, thirteen thousand three hundred and seventy-seven taxpayers will see cuts of over 500 euros and the number of those who will see an increase is seventeen thousand three hundred thirty-five. So there are no dragons here, ladies and gentlemen. Let us now go to the debate on the bill that completes the fourth evaluation, although today has an enlarged agenda, it would be appropriate to refer to the body of the bill. Yesterday's picture of the House shows your interest when reality does not agree with your line. With this in mind, let us look at a few points, as the bill contains important provisions of a more general and more specific nature in tax matters. These provisions are positive and stimulate the economy to increase investment and employment. They are also provisions that resolve issues. First of all, we are giving tax incentives to increase employment, but under conditions and conditions, in order to avoid abusive practices of the past. The previous provisions were non-functional and therefore remained practically inactive. Employers' contributions to the creation of new full-time jobs will now be deducted from gross revenue, increased by 50% over a period of five years. The regulation includes recruitment of young people up to thirty and long-term unemployed, as well as the conversion of any contract - such as part-time work, rotating jobs, blocks - into a full-time subordinated contract. This provision has a double reference. It enriches the framework for combating unemployment, but also contributes to restoring business activity. Positive samples of the economy and the labour market are reinforced with the aim of returning to normality, but also with the assumption that in order to achieve economic growth for the benefit of workers and businesses, it should be accompanied by the restoration of job security, tax compensation and the strengthening of healthy businesses. A further tax incentive to attract targeted investments concerns the new regulation on audiovisual media, which is not limited, as it used to be, to a large-scale film production, but provides for tax incentives for the production of audiovisual works in Greece in general, such as cinematographic, television, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u297	And finish this, Mrs. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u298	I shall conclude, Mr President. The incentive consists of a 30% deduction of the eligible costs from the tax income to the taxable person in Greece for the costs incurred in Greece. We have committed ourselves a few days ago and we are permanently perpetuating the provision which deserves the tax deduction that leads to a tax-free limit on income, occasional or opportunistic employees, householders, unemployed, students, participants in work experience programmes. This is a problem that we received from the previous government, which has been employing a large number of Greek taxpayers and which has so far been resolved by constant legislative intervention, and as I had promised from the Step of the House, we are now finally going to resolve it. A second question is the income tax exemption and the special solidarity levy on imputable income resulting from the grant of residence of up to 200 square metres as principal residence for non-residents or relatives. It will also be without tax that the use of real estate should be free of charge to the public and to the legal persons governed by public law. As far as the fight against smuggling is concerned, we are introducing a number of measures for tobacco products. They fall under the provisions of Law 4410/2016, which introduced new authorisations, the responsibilities of our Ministry, we set up a special register for the whole tobacco supply chain, we set up the Coordinating Business Centre to combat the smuggling of excise goods, and - lastly - we have provided the obligation to take due care of the tobacco industries, making them effectively responsible for all their transactions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u299	Please finish, Mrs. Papanatsiu.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u300	I shall refer to two further issues, because they are quite important, Mr President. The first issue concerns VAT for small businesses with a turnover of up to EUR 10,000. There is no obligation for two years to remain in the scheme of exempted persons and the subjects may be transferred to the normal scheme from the following year. We also resolve the sale of real estate by natural persons who no longer receive as business the sale of real estate acquired from, or of, a donation or relatives to, a second degree, or who owns it for more than five years. Ladies and gentlemen, we never liked the big words, we never said that the way to our own perspective of things would be easy. We had the responsibility of dealing with the difficult issues, and many times the problems fantasized insurmountable. With steadfastness and support for worthy associates, administration and employees, we will take it to the end. For the sake of everyone, we should not function in the logic of'say, say something will be left'. But that is not what opposition is helping us. Today's day has issues of fundamental importance and national importance. The fronts were a lot, but, apparently, the scenery is slowly cleared. The question is one. Can we talk soberly about issues of national importance, but also about economic issues? If not, then the only harm we are doing is to harm our dialogue, parliamentaryism and democracy by raising the extremes of opinion. Finally, any developmental logic of the country from now on for us must have a single position: transparency and fair distribution of burdens and benefits in support of the social majority of workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u301	Please, your time is long over, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u302	The possibilities given by the closure of the programme must not leave us room for micro-political conflicts, but we must understand that the crisis has been an opportunity for the many to return to the few. Let us not forget this at a time, so that we do not allow it to happen again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u303	I'm not listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u304	Our debt now is to reverse this situation. Developing will be fair, strengthening the impossible pole of society, the environment and the productive factor of work or not will be growth. It will be another success story without success and without a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u305	Mr Georgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very simple. There will also be two Members who will be unable to speak precisely because the Minister has spoken for fifteen minutes and has deprived two Members of this right. But when contact with reality is lost, the public speech becomes monologue. Ladies and gentlemen, today I refuse to talk about the plan. I refuse to talk about the 5.1 billion unnecessarily, which loads the Greek taxpayer. I will refuse to talk about the reduction in pensions, which will come from 1-1-2019 and for which there was an express obligation to inform all insured persons from 1-1-2018. I will not be tempted to talk about the tax reduction, which also means that the ordinary pensioners of the OGA will no longer pay tax. I am not going to talk about the 25 billion guarantee provided in this plan. I will not talk about the ENPIA, who since we have had the SYRIZA Government - ANEL every year is bored and strengthened. I refuse to talk about all this. I refuse to observe the government's record of the country's 'clean exit'. I refuse to participate in this comedy. I refuse to monitor the government's commitments and promises, which, of course, have been overthrown today, as has been done for three and a half years. I believe that today a shadow should be burdened with Parliament, burdened with the Members. This shadow is the shadow of Macedonia. I refuse to watch everything else. But I cannot accept, I cannot comment on it. I cannot attempt to express my opposition to it myself, to express my complete disagreement with what has already been predetermined by the present government. A Prime Minister who has no political legitimacy, who has devalued all of the Opposition and the House, having refused to provide any information to the whole of the Opposition, comes and gives a solution that is not just against the history and mind of the Greek people, but is a solution that confers rights on our citizens, grants our historical reserve and at the same time creates too many gray zones. Members of SYRIZA and ANEL, who will be invited to support this decision by the President of SYRIZA, so far, have you wondered exactly what was agreed? Have you wondered where we're going exactly? I read from the agreement that, as regards nationality, they will be called Macedonians, but they have nothing to do with ancient Greek culture. Their language will be called Macedonian, but with the footnote that it has Slavic roots. If the very text of the agreement admits that there is nothing to do with the ancient Greek culture of the Macedonians and that their language has the Slavic roots, why should the term Macedonian be mentioned? Why when in the text of the agreement itself and the footnotes say what we have as our main argument, why then should this be recorded? So we come and say that this will be called Macedonian, but with the footnote that it has nothing to do with ancient Macedonia. Then why would it be Macedonian? Why would it be Macedonian? Why should we proceed to this agreement unequivocally, this dangerous move on the part of this government, which will never be accepted by the Greek people? You deserved the rallys. You detested the Greek people. You have deserved the conscience of an entire people. You did not receive this message. The only message you have put in and which you seem to have accepted is the messages that according to the multi-brand plan will be able to receive the late business loans from foreign funds when they are transferred there. Because this will also be the way to inform businessmen. But the messages of society, the Greek people's messages, did not receive them. You'll find them in front of you in the next few days. But you should know something. In national policy, we never look at national issues with a horizon for next elections, we never look at micro-political purposes. We look over the next few years, we look at the next generations, we really look at safeguarding what is the hold of the nation and of our history. We do so in a way and with an effort of consensus and convergence. We do not do it by looking towards the side of the Opposition, and of course we do not do it with arrogantness, and we do not do it by violating the Constitution itself. They all have an answer. The people and democracy always have the solutions. This answer to know you'll take her immediately. And if for all the rest they may at some point forgive you, for your efforts - which I am sure will not succeed - neither the Greek people nor history will forgive you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u307	Mr. Kelles has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Medium-term Financial Strategy Framework 2019-2022 is to be voted on, namely the Fourth Memorandum. Your clean exit account in August is completely collapsed and all that is true is that the summer stops the country's funding. At the same time you chose the same day to grant beyond the name, Macedonian identity and language to our neighbours Skopje and to celebrate from above. Mr. Tsipras arrived at the point in his letter yesterday to speak of "Greek-Kedonian language heritage". Are you all right? Are you nationally proud of this thing? Nor do you have political legitimacy since your co-pilot Mr Kammenos says that he does not agree and does not vote for it. Why are you doing this? Nonsense? Unresponsible? Four o'clock? Brumita? Mercedes? Pick whatever title you like. And I come to the plan. You vote for measures that will be implemented over the next four years, committing and undermining the next government, by stepping up the poverty of Greek society, bringing the market to despair and mortgage public property for a hundred years. Remove the ESS. You reduce pensions by abolishing personal difference. You're cutting off the widow's pensions. You're increasing taxation by 35%. You're raising HISBIA. You double the tolls on the Egnatia Road, leaving the movement "I Don't Pay" and officially joining the movement "I Pay Double". You leave the banks unsympathetic to the sale of red loans in fund. And as if not all of this is enough, you are also bound to beastly primary surpluses that reach 5.2% for the next five years. Of course evil doesn't stop here. With your signature the property of the Greek State for a hundred years in the foreign administration of the EISA, which will be liable to pay the debts of the third Memorandum up to EUR 25 billion if the State fails to pay its payments. In which other country, ladies and gentlemen, has such measures been taken in the Memorandum? Did it happen in Cyprus? Maybe in Portugal? Or in Ireland? Nowhere. I read in writing: 'a) Austerity will continue with the reduction of the incomes of pensioners and wages but also due to the reduction of duty-free b) The primary surplus does not fuel growth and there will be a contraction, while the Public Investment Projects are not carried out in order to feed growth c) Our country has become a debt colony by subsistence of public property through the excess for the next ninety years'. Who says that? No, I don't. He doesn't call them the Congressman. The honourable Member and your former Minister, Mr Friend, told the committee yesterday. And because you have exhausted society with your tax policy, you are resorting to other tricks to grab more from where you can. I'm talking about pharmacists. Tax - Rebate you say it-0.8% on the retail price of the medicine after the end of the period of protection by the EEAP in off-patent medicines. And even this amount will be offset with the debts of the EEAS to pharmacists not only for 2018, but on a permanent basis for the coming years, in accordance with Article 26(2) of the draft law. Why exactly are you punishing pharmacists? At a time when the doctor concerned is using the prescription and the patient can choose his medicine and pay for the difference himself, why should the pharmacist pay this fee? The target is clear: 6m euros calculates the General Accounting Office of the State that you will collect. And if all these measures you've been implementing three years, they've been getting a place, a carpet. However, you are constantly revising the growth index downwards, with your latest forecast of 2% of GDP for the period 2018-2021. You received the debt in 2015 to 177% of GDP and in 2018 you reached 194% of GDP. From 315 billion debt in 2016 you went to 344 in 2018. Private debt to the public sector has been launched from EUR 85 billion in 2014 to EUR 132 billion in 2018. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the government, with the same ease that you have sifted the memorials in 2014 with the same ease you now sign them two - two in three years of governance SYRIZA - ANEL. The government has surrendered unconditionally for a few days in power above, ignoring the Greek people and leading them to impoverishment. However, the entire Greek people now know that we are not all the same and that is the only profit for three years of governance by the SYRIZA - ANEL. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u309	Mr George Vlachos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot of talk is taking place in particular lately on the famous clear exit and credit line. What does it mean, though, for a clean exit? It means that our country will have the possibility of getting out on the markets and meeting its financial needs. However, the government at the time when it rejects credit support for creditors is actually organising a sort of a credit line of its own, another type, bringing together stock of money so that it can meet needs. It is enough to take stock of the resources today from the municipalities, from the House - I will say, however, for the municipalities - in order to strengthen the reserves in the Bank of Greece. And while the claims for more democracy in the municipalities are heard by the government at the same time the reserves are taken, which the municipalities obviously need to meet the current obligations. But it is likely that this reserve will not be able to meet the needs. This will depend on how things develop. And all that talk and effort, why is it going on? In order to differentiate with yesterday, the government, that is, 'we've rejected the credit line of the lenders', in relation to the previous government and, of course, in their interpretation, it means 'we are not obliged to take any new measures'. I wish that was the reality, but unfortunately also for the government, but also for society, it is not, since the government is forced to take new measures at the same time as rejecting this credit line substantially loses funding, i.e. the convenience of finding cheap money to meet needs. New measures are being taken and heard by many colleagues, it is now known. We have cuts, pension cuts, tax cuts, they're known now, we'll see you and I'll see you again. It's 5.1 billion-dollar measures. We have the excess surpluses. It was heard earlier by our rapporteur how the Prime Minister described these excessive surpluses in the past, which he now considers to be feasible and considers them to be a solution. It is the growth that every year is much higher than the one that the country finally achieves. It is, of course, the public debt, which, instead of constantly increasing, is also increasing. Here I would like to say that I think it is moving about in the context that was in 2009-2010, when, as we know, the twin Papandreou - Papaconstantinou has turned the country's deficit and debt problem into a loan problem and entered the memoranda and arrived here today. Finally, we see the public property entering a mortgage. So when these measures are taken, can anyone, ladies and gentlemen, claim that there is a clear exit? Clear exit, I said earlier, I wish there was, but unfortunately, for our economy, in alpha or beta way, the economy needs support. And it needs support - and this is the government's choice ultimately - by lending indoors. That's what this is about. In our opinion, the net exit will only be achieved when the Greek economy can lead to growth, can create an increase in productivity, i.e. an increase in wealth. Then, indeed, we can all see optimisticly the next day. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If you ask us, for us, in the New Democracy, that is our comparative advantage. What's that? That we speak the same language - and here I am ending, Mr President - with the actors of the real economy and have been taught by mistakes and omissions of the past, no doubt, in conjunction with the social sensitivity that has always seen the centre-right aspect, we can give hope and perspective to our lives for the next day. That's our attitude, that's our behavior, that's our responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u311	Mr. Spartin of SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that by voting on this multi-brand plan, which is the premise of the regulation of debt and of the exit from the Memorandum of Understanding, New Democracy and, behind it, the hard core of the past PASOK and some more, they reach the bottom of political despair. They see all of their bets on which they gambled their policy to lose one - one, as the objectives of this government are achieved and the country goes on a day after tomorrow when we do not claim to be stranded with rose petals, but it will be a point of hopeful relaunch of the economy, society, democracy, away from their cumulative neoliberal promises. Just a few words about the PHY, which continues to drift behind the New Democracy, perhaps because, as we heard from the rapporteur telling us, they have now crossed the desert, in which their policies, which they consider - but they are wrong - have now been forgotten by the Greek people. Let me just remind them that a frequent phenomenon encountered in deserts is reflectiveness. When the sun hits you in the head, they say you see odors, running waters, even tails of heaven. Let's take a look at that. For its part, New Democracy bets all its money, along with its borrowings, on the fact that the exit will not be clean, giving the meaning of the net exit the meaning of it and insisting on gross data distortions, with permanent, unsustainable, of course, so that if they continued to govern them with PASOK, they would achieve high surpluses, but with high growth and many other marvelous and completely arbitrary ones. A hypothetical reason for the unrealistic, as our teachers taught us at school, confusing the surpluses with the financial area voluntarily, practicing additional measures that do not exist, speaking of measures and avoiding countermeasures, not only the voted countermeasures, but also the new ones resulting from the continuous increase until 2022 of the financial area. Social aid and tax relief measures resulting from the proposed medium-term, but also those resulting from the continuous additional improvement of the economy and the constant struggle, in other words, with the sovereign powers that are taking over - for how long? - in Europe, which should not stop and SYRIZA is not willing to stop it. The New Democracy, confusing with the wave of its embarrassment and logical artifacts, cannot accept that the exit will be without prerequisites, without other measures, without any other borrowing, without a credit, i.e. a Memorandum of Support. For all this, she can't hide her deep sadness, not only because the comparison with the results of today's government is overwhelming at her expense, but also because hopefully she will rule soon - dreams don't cost - she would want to have the popular layers tied up by hand, to start working back as she used to. The concept, ladies and gentlemen, of the net exit to society and SYRIZA, has nothing to do with the end of the memorials, and this is mainly what scares our political opponents. A clear exit also means that the fight to reduce unemployment and increase employment must be continued by those who trust the world of work and who have still achieved an important, even though not enough, reduction in unemployment. Clear exit means that the unemployed will continue to have insurance cover, workers will have collective agreements and free bargaining to increase wages and wages, that civil servants will not be at risk of preoccupied penalisation, that private employees will feel a daily improvement in government protection in relation to the terms of their employment. Clear exit means that we will not return to health poverty and passive privatisation of the public health system, but that, on the contrary, its completion, as will the public education system. A clean exit means that anyone who is interested in entrepreneurial activity will not be troubled by the bureaucracy, erected by the previous governments, to serve their own with the uninjurious, so-called entrepreneurs of entrepreneurship, in effect immemorials of state-owned entrepreneurship, "payer" and unreserved design. Net exit means growth without ‘oils’, locusts, life-life state suppliers, without ‘SIEMENS’, ‘NOVARTIS’ and offshore. Clear exit means returning to society with a plan and justice for those who have been stripped of it for years by the "angel" of neoliberalism and austerity. Ladies and gentlemen, it means, finally, that the struggle will continue next day, along with all the healthy progressive and left-wing forces, because we do not claim that all the difficulties have been over and that we are indifferent to the past of apathy, separatism and mithridism. On the contrary, we believe that we are starting a new effort, but with much better terms and conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and four educational attendants from the 23rd Larisa Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Stathakis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u314	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is basically coming to complete a circle that began in 2015, with a concrete agreement with the lenders, which we put into the crisis of Greek citizens. This agreement has, in fact, proved to be realistic and pragmatic. It has achieved results, in terms of what we promised, stabilising the economy and creating the conditions for recovery. In the energy sector, which I will be standing in my speech, this cycle has also been closed. Energy sector in 2018 does not remind of anything that existed in 2014. There was a great transformation in the energy sector. Today, basically, this cycle closes, having created a clear landscape in relation to the country's objectives and commitments towards climate change, the Paris Agreement and the objectives set by the European Union and, of course, to our commitments and strategy for how the energy sector will evolve. In 2019, the target model will also be activated in Greece, the European Union's target model, which we voted in Parliament some time ago, which substantially harmonises the way energy markets operate with European data. Let me remind you that the operation of the Energy Stock Exchange, in essence, on the day-to-day and day-to-day market, regulates short-term issues, as well as on the intraday market, but at the same time introduces the forward market, where purchases will now incorporate all bilateral contracts made by energy companies, primarily by PPC, industry or individual sectors. This modulation is linked to what the multi-project, the de-escalation of NOMEs is saying today. I would remind you that the NOMEs were introduced in 2015 in order not to go ahead with the plan of the previous government for the small PPC. In fact, it is the amount of electricity that PPC is obliged to give third parties in order to obtain market shares. With the completion and introduction of the Energy Exchange in 2019 and the opening of the concession procedure, the sale of the lignite plants of PPC, as completed by the law that we passed and implemented now, is essentially described how the NOMEs will be deviated next year until they are abolished, with the launch and operation of the Energy Exchange. The second condition, in order to have the energy exchange and the target model function, is that the country has links with the wider region, especially the neighbouring countries. As you know, we have a connection with Italy and Bulgaria. The other neighbouring countries are also making similar moves. I would remind you that FYROM has announced its forthcoming association with Bulgaria. Energy Exchanges have been established in Serbia and Bulgaria as early as 2015, while in the respective actions Montenegro and Albania, which are carrying out its planning jointly with Kosovo. It is also noted that by 2020 Bulgaria intends to integrate itself with the four already coupled markets of Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Romania. I have not yet understood the New Democracy's position on the scalp. I knew a position of twenty-five, thirty years of New Democracy. Now, I'm learning a new place. No references shall be made to Macedonia, to a complex name, or to a geographical definition or anything. That is what I think I knew as New Democracy's positions. I'm learning something new today. With the completion of this agreement, I think that it opens up a very important road, the interconnection of Greece with all the countries of the Balkans and the effort to become a strong force in the Balkans. The same applies to the power pipelines, where they turn Greece into a node, such as the TAP, IGB, EAST MED and many others under design. I will move on to the next two issues that are involved in the Multi-Project. They're NGOs. I would remind you that we had inherited a very large debt from the four years unpaid NGO. We balanced this with the introduction of ELPE and PFL. In fact, today, after having balanced this piece, we say how we will lead to the gradual abolition of the end supplier by 2020. The second major section in which the energy sector has been transformed concerns energy companies. We started with IPTO. We kept him under public control. We solved the problem of PPC with the concession of lignite plants. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. We have successfully completed the privatisation of the ETUC at a much increased price and stronger public rights, 34%. Of course, we rescued the DEPA in infrastructure and commercial part. We maintain public control over infrastructure. So this new energy sector is a clean landscape with infrastructure under public control and the commercial part is in operation by the private sector. I close with energy poverty and social invoice. Greece commits to high targets for 2020 in relation to Renewable Energy Sources and savings. At the same time, we are introducing into the European Union - in other words, we agree with the European Parliament - on special care for energy poverty. We have introduced the social invoice. We have introduced the fund for what households lose the social invoice and risk staying without power. We will continue to strengthen the social character of energy policy by insisting that tackling energy poverty is an integral part of the new landscape in the energy sector. With these possibilities and these conditions, this cycle is now closed. We are looking forward to a prospect where Greece will be in the pioneering countries meeting the high objectives of climate change and the high objectives set in the European Union with a clean landscape, purely memorable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u315	The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech I would like to make a request to the majority of this House and to the government, what the Prime Minister promised yesterday to the Heads of the Parties - at least to Mrs Gennimata - that is to say the distribution of the text of the FYROM Agreement to do so. There is still no distribution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u317	He's thinking about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u318	We have two days' political dialogue, both inside and outside of the country, and no one has in mind - nor do you, I imagine, the MPs at least - what this agreement is. And it can't last for too long. We as a party have kept a very responsible attitude. We have reservations because we want to see the written text and its annexes, if any. And even after the second day today, we have nothing in mind. Even in the European Parliament, I was informed by Mrs Kalis, Mr Papadimoulis was triumphant. When Mrs Kailey asked for the floor, she didn't give it to her. Was he triumphing about something he knows about? Has he read it? I guess not, neither is he. But that's not how things work. These are not serious things, and at least within the day you must have taken care of this great lack of coverage. You promised, I repeat, by your Prime Minister to the parties yesterday that you would give them the text of the agreement, not his performance, the agreement itself and the related annexes, if any. Before I speak about the draft law, I would also like to say something about it, but it also constitutes an exception to our position. The provision relating to the single price of books is very correct. Mr Simitis as Prime Minister of the country and his government then, in the 1990s, established it. It was cut with the wonderful measures of our government, with the OECD toolbox, and it was wrong. It was wrong because the provision concerned mainly small publishing houses and mainly books which are not commercial. And so this defense, as far as a two-year price is concerned, was a very good measure. It was wrongly abolished and correctly restored. Finally, as far as my speech is concerned. If I were asked to describe this legislative initiative, I would describe it as an arrow-like, arrow-flying arrow by the people of this people fleeing, losing and killing the latter. It is such a piece of legislation and at the same time a surge in a government that faces a wide range of global and strategic defeats in the next elections. But the more you sit, the more you reveal yourself, not as you present yourself in words. I call it the fifth consecutive time in my placement here. They are words of great intellectuals that deeds the electorate every time. No one is judged by the words these intellectuals have said. We are all judged by our actions. The French 'Go back, madame Merkel' are the one you marked out of what the Minister of Finance said here 'Good luck' to the next ones who will manage what is establishing and loading on the backs of others. From this fake "Go back", to the endurance of "Good luck" to the next. That's what you are. That's what you said. You didn't do none of this. You did the opposite. Because you load everything after 2019, that is to say to the next, you wish them good luck. I want to make an intervention. There is no Minister from the Ministry of Labour and Social Security here, but there is a contradiction in your text numbers. You were talking about cuts that will result from the abolition of the personal difference in pensions to EUR 1,84 billion in 2019. These cuts then reached 2,250,000,000 euros. And suddenly with the draft law you bring to Parliament, it all comes to EUR 2.88 billion for 2019. Are there any hidden cuts? Anything else you take into account? How does the sum of 400 to 500 million of those who will benefit the public because it will cut the personal difference in pensions and you do not explain it? You need an explanation, because if you do not give this explanation, we are totally legitimate to say that there is a secret cut here. Also legislate on the drastic reduction of duty. You and the pensions don't do it now. You were not telling the truth, lying and many times unrecognized. The MPs went out to the channels and said in the morning that "you know, until August, it goes on and then we'll renegotiate". Now here in the medium term, all that you've had people call it, incorporate them. Cutting up lies and fairy tales. The medium term is here and you have these embedded as well as HIS. Mrs Papanatsiou, you stood up with intensity yesterday and told us a zone - a zone - to a pigeon and elsewhere - how many changes you bring. I listened very carefully to you. I didn't keep it all together, but there's in the Minutes. But you were the ones who would have done away with the ENPIA. Mr. Chakalotos did something I didn't like. Addressing the Civic Opposition, he talked about areas and areas in Athens where their voters live. That's what he said. I don't remember exactly. I want to tell you an incident, because it's very typical. On the eve of the January 2015 elections I was in New Psychic - my region - and a gentleman who wore must have cost more than 100 thousand euros, told me this, without knowing me: 'Andrico, this time he doesn't. SYRIZA now". I say to him, "Where do you live, brother?" He was not cut off for a PASOK voter. In these areas, however, the New Democracy received 70% and 80%. "Are you a voter of PASOK?" I tell him. I told him more popular, as he addressed me. "No", he says to me, "I am the New Democracy, but now SYRIZA, because the ENPI has vanquished us." That's what you said. In fact, I'm filing something that had made a very big impression to me. I don't remember everything, but now it's just the Internet that's refreshing. I remember your Minister's presence in escapades, where he denounced HISA and said he would abolish everything. You cannot be proud because in some areas you keep the same prices. You must have a contraction, as I said this morning to the Minister, because you won the elections in very different words, with very different words and with insults that we have not returned to you. Yesterday I was on a TV show, I got a message storm to tell you traitors. I'll never do it. I will never tell your Chief Pinochet, as Mr. Tsipras here was telling Mr. Papandreou. That's never gonna be us. We don't look like you, we're not the same. I am presenting these excellent pictures of the Minister and presenting a report by Mr Koutromanis on exactly what you have done since 2016 for pensions. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have developed in the morning, with all the time available, the issues of the guarantees referred to in Article 109(2) point 14 2a and 2. There you say that public property relating to goods such as natural gas, such as Greek Petroleum, such as PPC, such as OTE, those shares that you have passed on to the excess, make them guaranteed. What does that have to do with your ideology? What ideology do you have? What does this have to do with what you're saying? What is the problem if some MPs, instead of rightly calling them, as you say in your law, a guarantee of public assets, are calling them a mortgage or a pledge? Does the Minister ignore as a professor of finances that there is no point in legal status? It is important to understand that a guarantor is a payer. It replaces the first debtor, as your adjustment refers to. Didn't you know that? Were these things to confront? Me with a glance at the history of the country, of which humor passes to the House once successfully, and sometimes not the Finance Minister, reminds me of the Wigon politicians, such as John Russell, or the Labour Party, such as Michael Foot, who said a lot, but when the time came to do something, they did one failure behind the other. You are ultimately this and you cannot be insolvent, which you define with your current provisions, to try to forge it to us as something that we must see self-criticism, because allegedly in the summer of 2015 we voted for your memorandum. I will be remembered by the fellow Members who are here, Mr Koutsoukos, Mr Kremastinos, to recommend to our group that we do not vote and I tell the Greek delegation that it was the President's request that we should all be together in an effort to save the country, not to vote for your arrangements. The view not to vote on them was that they would be smart. And here and today, after so many times, the Minister of Finance addressed to a Member of the New Republic said to him: "You did not vote in the summer of 2015?" It forgets, of course, that the law on the supremacy was specialised in 2016, as Mr Stagiras said. My PASOK colleagues remember well, but we also had doubts. However, we said to support our country, because you were divided and you did not have the majority to rescue the country and we entered your own knot. And instead of feeling a political obligation on the opposition, do you want to load the surplus, do you want to load the guarantees for her, for the sake of which you add water, the shares of the Greek State in EKD, and the oil and gas and all national wealth? I explained to you this morning that no matter what you say here, Rule 106 para. 1 of the Constitution and its history will make it difficult for you and it will be for us as a party of the Centre and the Central Left, a real tool against you as a pseudo-ideologist. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, ten seconds, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there is no worse governance than that of a heirly group of demagogues and populists, who, as I have said, are, as I have said, on a scroll and try in every way, but in every way, to be held in power. You're done. A addition to my phrases. FYROM’s history at the level of public dialogue covers the current legislation. We have, however, also taken care of our contributions to the National Representation and our public word to reveal all aspects of this legislation. The time will come when the arrangements that you are voting on today will come to the fore and you will be apologetic and we will be your critics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u319	Mr. Javarras, from New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u320	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to see you here - of course, I would also like Mr Tsakalotos - dealing in practical terms with whether the ones from this step show the sensitivity to transparency and the fight against corruption, which is very beautifully formulated in Article 69 of the bill. Madam Secretary, I have heard you say that your specialty is transparency. But now listen to Article 69 and answer me, please. By Article 69, ladies and gentlemen, the provision of Article 1 and Article 3 of L.4354/2015 is amended. By this law, Ministers, you decided and provided that the management of claims from loans from banks or financial institutions was entrusted exclusively to the management companies for the management of claims from bank or financial institutions. So these anonymous companies - provided for by this provision - are a special and exclusive purpose and do nothing but buy loans packages from these naive and unlucky and under the government of the left borrowers, which the banks dominate as ‘non-cooperative’. And at the same time this particular category of public limited companies is not only a special and exclusive purpose. In other words, this particular category does not provide for any other concern than the purchase, management and exploitation of the packages of such loans, as there is another paragraph below ‘with regard to the exploitation of the property which is subject to such loans’. Today, then, you are making an amendment to this provision, which is very subtle, no one would say. In fact, he's too obscure. It says, therefore, in the explanatory statement: 'In order to remove interpretative doubts, these companies of the exclusive and specific purpose should be classified as financial institutions'. In this "innocent" provision of Law4354 with Article 69, a referral proposal states: "These anonymous companies, the special and exclusive purpose, which are financial institutions, are licensed by the Bank of Greece". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Of course, one will say, 'good financial institutions are' here. But if one of you, ladies and gentlemen, is bothering and going back to the provision of Law 4261/2014 and see what financial institutions are, it will see that these institutions are almost banks than two or three responsibilities. In other words, they have the right to carry out all the banking activities provided for in the list in Directive 36/2013. In particular, I will list some: to give loans, credit cards, to issue travel checks, to mediate interbank work, to keep and manage securities, to take a series of actions, which are carried out on the basis of the applicable law on credit institutions on remuneration. And worst of all, they have the right to issue electronic money. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Truly, Mr Ministers, such innocent, very innocent reporting proposal, how many millions it gives these particular companies exclusive and special purpose, which, of course, is intended to entice them, or in order to achieve exchanges - I will tell you why I am saying this - it comes to giving so many privileges, without the Greek State getting any of these millions that are going to win? You obviously want to make the sale of these miserable people's loans much more intensive, who have never dealt with how banks are shaping their total dues. Has any of you been involved in whether the ones who owe consumer loans or credit cards pay a 25% tax annually when the banks get a deposit tax of 1%? And very well, Minister, I was listening this morning to what you were saying about class policy. Is it a class policy to be called a "capitalist" or a "strategic mispaid" or "non-cooperative" policy for anyone who happened to have a house and because he fell into the vortex of the financial crisis, the one we all live in, does not want to give in to the demands of the banks, which have doubled or tripled the original debt by slugging the interest rate of 25%, and by recalling this without any time limit? I would also like to ask you now - and I shall end, Mr President - this. I won't be a populist to say that someone has to be taken to put this provision here. Oh, no. But I'll say something else here. Apart from this particular provision, if anyone combines it, who knows how to read the provision that is left for these companies, there is another benefit. It gives them the right to further sell the packages. Why do you know? These companies, based on the original law, bought the packages of loans from credit institutions or financial institutions. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] So now that, with a mere proposal, you are making financial institutions with the privileges I have told you, at the same time giving them the right to buy and sell from themselves - because they are already financial institutions - and these millions that have been taken from ALPHA BANK or ATTICA BANK.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u321	Please, Mr. Javarra, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u322	I shall conclude, Mr President. Some of them, instead of 30 million, have secured a market of 1.5 billion. You stay awkward, of course, because you can't think about it. At least I, as a legal person, have never met - and indeed, as a Member of Parliament for a decade - so great anthropoiety to fit into a reportative proposal. I'm telling you this: I don't know who's got it and if he's got it. The sure thing is that in your government offices there are rich parasites, and these will have to be found and throw them out of your sight, because I do not believe that any Minister of a government who has the confidence of this House will reach that point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u323	Please, Mr. Jawara! You've reached eight minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u324	I shall conclude, Mr President. I only know and I will invoke it exactly as a very great sociologist, Marcel Moss, in this monumental thesis he has done for the operation of the gift. The gift, Minister, has within it the obligation of recompense, and here it is not a question of getting it. The question here is who will accept this recompense and what size this return will be. Otherwise, you must withdraw this provision immediately. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u325	Me, too. Mrs Papanatsiou has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u326	It's not Mr. Statakis' order. It's Mr. Drasakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u327	The government's responsibility is collective!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u328	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u329	Do you want to speak or do you want to speak, Mr Stathakis? How much time do you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u330	For a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u331	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u332	The inaccuracy is not a good policy advisor. So we have heard here that the specific article, to which the Bank of Greece is, is licensed and has a list of financial institutions and also licensed the special-purpose companies described by the law, which I know very well, so let me reply. So what does this provision say? That the financial list of the Bank of Greece is also added to the specific objective. The special purpose is not to be made financially, not to change their nature, not to change anything. It is a very procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u333	Eliminate that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u334	It's completely procedural, there's nothing that you've implied, nothing at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u335	If that's the case, why don't you erase it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u336	It's inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u337	Is that inaccurate what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u338	It does not change the status of special purpose and the Bank of Greece that is licensed both comes and you have a single list. It has nothing to do with what you said about reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u339	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u340	Mrs Papanatsiou has the floor for a minute for legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u341	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Legislative improvements. Technically, it's all about. At the end of Article 116 of the draft law, it is added that ‘the validity of paragraph 1 shall start from the 2018 tax year onwards’. It is about tax incentives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u342	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u343	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u344	On what matter, Mr. Javarra?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u345	He said I'm inaccurate. Shouldn't I support myself?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u346	You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u347	If it does not play any role in establishing the original article of Article 1(2), the addition: "... which are financial institutions..." - because the Bank of Greece, when there is no legislative provision, cannot treat them as financial institutions, because it is doing so, as I have said, by means of credit institutions rather than by means of three actions. In other words, financial institutions cannot obtain deposits, but they can publish electronic money and do all that I have said. You didn't convince me, Minister. Of course, at some point, you should stop giving regulatory autonomy to the banks. You are a government and you have the legislative initiative to regulate relations between borrowers and banks. So you, in this way that you are bringing here today, where all you have dominated it dominately in the banking crisis, have restricted consumer protection as well...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u348	Mr. Javarra, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u349	I shall conclude, Mr President. ... based on the fact that banks determine who are cooperative and non-cooperative and non-cooperative borrowers cannot be protected as consumers even though the provision of Article 1 of Law 2251/1994 says that the financial interests of consumers are protected by the State rather than by the banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u350	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u351	Minister, don't engage in dialogue all the time, though. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u352	An inaccuracy of tens of thousands is coming, apparently. So today we have learned that legislation on the protection of first homes, that legislation on the extrajudicial mechanism, that legislation on how it is judged to be cooperative or non-cooperative, is not laws, but is at the discretion of the banks. I guess you're really totally...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u353	You're out of reality, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u354	I live out of reality? You probably live with total ignorance of reality, as you legislate here in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u355	Mrs Fotio, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u356	Mr President, you said four - five speakers and then one Minister. Now two speakers have spoken and you are giving the floor again to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u357	The Members will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u358	This series must be observed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u359	I agree, but now I have taken over and found this programme. They'll be followed by MPs later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u360	That's for sure! I'm so sorry! I don't have a problem with Mrs. Fotio. I have a great deal of trouble not keeping what the Bureau said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u361	Please, Mrs. Fotou, for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u362	Mr President, a ghost is deceiving over the Chamber in these days that terrorises the whole opposition - it is the country's clear exit from the memorials in August - a terrified New Democracy that terrorizes the entire people with lies and falsification. Tomorrow, the last bill with Memorandum obligations is passed. It's the last one. However, it has extremely positive regulations and which I believe that its positive articles, positive regulations, at the end of the day you will vote on them tomorrow. However, you do not have the courage to confess all these days where your multitudes of media repeat that "Armagedon" comes in 2019 for the Greek taxpayer and the pensioner. Unfortunately for you, we will be here in 2019 to see your catastrophe collapse once again. These days in the House we hear two lies that, if both apply, then they are self-determination. What do I mean? The first is that we are creating a state of benefits, not work, development, investment. The second is that we are cutting or cutting allowances. Finally make up your mind. They can't be both. One of the two applies: either cut or give. What's going on? In 2015 we received 790m euros in the welfare budget. You have had yourself all the years and even the seasons of prosperity and growth and wealth, yourself, the lowest of Europe ever. Why? Because you firmly believe, as the BSE regime has claimed some time ago, that the money paid for the welfare state is lost money for development. We support exactly the opposite, as all scientific research is saying, that for every euro given to the social state for health, education and social protection, it is returning to growth of 1,3 or 1,68 depending on what is being given. That is to say, spending on the social state is development expenditure, beyond being social expenditure. That is why the 790 million we received in 2015 made it 1,830,000 euros in 2018 and we will make it 3 billion in 2019. Here are 760 million for seven hundred thousands of our fellow citizens for the CRL. From 2009, when we entered this terrible adventure with the memorials, which you voted the first and second, by 2015, you had not put a single euro, other than 20 million, for our fellow citizens who were wintering from the humanitarian crisis. We gave in 2015 our solidarity card for four hundred thousand fellow citizens and for food. Today the solidarity card is Greece's proposal that the European Commission is considering adopting, because it is the only action that can give people dignity, instead of making tails to get bags and bags. The CRL was implemented in 2017. We planned it to work every day any one of the last six months has fallen into extreme poverty. Every day the system is open. At the same time, 10% of the unemployed enter work. In the medium term 20% of the unemployed enter work, because we will not make a 'poverty trap'. I therefore ask you directly: will Article 22, which stipulate for the CRL that the amount of the CRL not be calculated on the income limits for the payment of social or prosperous benefits, will you vote on it, yes or no? In the medium term there are 200 million of school meals for all the children of all the primary schools in the country. There are 260 million extra for family allowances, that is, nine hundred ten in total. Will you vote against them? There are the 155 million for a thousand eight hundred new nurseries, so that children entering 2019-2020 are a hundred sixty-five thousand free voucher children when we found only seventy-five thousand free voucher children in 2015. That's all you had, Mr. Mitsotakis. Today promise that when you come to your kingdom all the children will enter the nursing stations. What don't you know we don't have nursery stations? Don't you know that? Didn't they tell you? In this multi-brand plan, there are 600 million for rent subsidies and bank loans for first residences in a million three hundred thousand people. What do you want to cut off of them? Let's go to the second lie, that we're cutting benefits. For two years you have been terrorizing the sensitive disability area, that we have been cutting off disability benefits. We didn't cut off a single euro. And you're not sorry. None of you. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. On the contrary, since February 2018, we have piloted the electronic disability file, which will put an end to the lengthy and painful procedures for disabled people, a process unique throughout Europe. Instead, we are giving - not cutting off - the 46 euros, which the disabled pays every time he passes through the CIPs today. Will you vote for this or will you not vote for it? It's Articles 17 and 18. I ask you straight away: Article 21 is for the EEA, and I ask you whether you will vote for it, because this will carry 50 million from OPEKA to the institutions. Finally, we have received a state of founding, subsidizing, with customer relations, with opaque, incredibly bureaucratic, from you "competent" managers of power and we have created the "incapable", within three years, a state of social protection for all Greek citizens, not just for the vulnerable. It's digital, it treats everyone with dignity, equality and justice. It is the mechanism of the 240 community centres that the New Democracy fought rabies and did not vote. It is the OPEKA, the privileged organisation that gives benefits, which New Democracy fought rabies and did not vote for. These two are the pillars of the new system of social solidarity for dignity, opacity, digitality, all of the Greek people, not the roussefets, our well-known and customer relations. You are ruined and will be disproved once again. We make the future of this country. Never again. We're not going back to the old regime you are. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u363	Thank you. The President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's sitting we will not fall into the trap that both the government and other parties are trying to set up, in order to divert the debate on the bill, to overshadow the very tough measures that this contains and for which the Greek people must be informed. We are not underestimating the Tsipras-Zafe agreement at all. Since the first moment, since the Prime Minister informed us on the phone and it was what he said about his proclamation, we have described the agreement as a 'constitutional letter of accession to NATO and the European Union of Skopje'. That was the aim of the government, which is why it is becoming essential for Skopje to be settled in NATO, the European Union. It's no accident, after all, that the first ones who rushed...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u365	Aron-aron?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u366	The present is June.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u367	It's been three months.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u368	Because he could go, for example, to Prespes and August, where flies are fat.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u369	We've had a lot of trouble with that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u370	But listen carefully, even what the JRC says about reflection, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u371	The arrow - I have made a comment on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u372	Yes, the artefact - I have answered what it means. The first to welcome the agreement before we were even informed here - and we have not actually been informed, because we do not have the agreement in our hands - about the agreement itself and its details were the State Department, it was the United States of America and NATO. We have also told the Prime Minister yesterday that it is also an agreement, which contains the sperm of altotitism, since the Greek Government accepts Macedonian and Macedonian nationality. So let us tell you about the historical moments that Greece will play a leading role. The historic moment is nothing but the redeployment in the Balkan region, with the SYRIZA Government at the moment, of course, taking a leading role in this tragedy, a geopolitical'menteche' role, as you were described by the American Ambassador, who is walking our country and making statements as a new Purifou. For now. I'll see you in the debate in Parliament when it's done. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, every time you speak here in the House about the clearing of the clean exit from the memoranda, bring in a new package of anti-grassroots measures. They don't need words. Your political actions are talking about what will be the next day. However, whatever you do, workers live and understand reality, they do not see the improvement you describe in their own lives. As much as you try to show that there is growth that will greatly relieve the people, the reality of 2018 comes to crush your own declarations. The development of 2018 was based on more than EUR 1 billion of more taxes paid by the people to implement the anti-grassroots objectives. It was based on the abolition of the strike right requested by your BSE friends. It was based on the aggressive promotion of privatization and on the ruthless hunting as taxiffs, wagers and self-employed persons, who, with electronic auctions, take their homes out to the hammer, while industrialists, shipowners, systematically pay only minimum taxes and remain unavoidable. It takes nothing more than to see your last year's realities to understand how growth and crisis have for workers the same class mark as memos or without memos. At the time of the crisis, you were asking workers - like previous governments, of course, you are not the only one - to get the economy out of the crisis, now you are asking for new sacrifices to shield your development. The situation for the vast majority of the population either in the development phase or in the crisis phase is unfortunately getting worse. That's why we say you're the political staff that the ruling class needs to do its dirty work. She just needs one of her monopolies. That's why the anti-grass attack will continue, even if we get out of the memos. It's a seasonal attack and it's not going to end in August. You have already signed measures that extend far after 2018: the beastly primary surpluses of 3.5% of GDP over the next five years, the surpluses of 2% for decades provided for by the European Treaty, of course, which also binds every Member State - a Member State of the European Union, which demonstrates that financial supervision is lasting and will never stop. Now, however, the new medium-term shows your real face. You're revealing. In vain you're trying to hide. The new medium-term that you bring shows your seal shows the ruthless, hideous face you have as genuine political representatives of monopolies. It shows that in order to achieve the shielding of capitalist profitability you have no quarrel. With analgesia, you literally break the popular layers. You are talking about additional surpluses, which you are courageously baptizing 'financial space'. What exactly do you mean by that? How the unbundling of workers will continue, multiply, intensified, to fund the development of the groups, how the surplus will reach unthinkable heights. Gentlemen of the government, this policy has your seal, SYRIZA seal. It turns out once again that you will do whatever is necessary, even the most extreme, in order to shield the profits of a few capitalists. What is the actual content of the new Multi-Project? That the discipline and slaughter of the people will continue. That whether there is a memorandum or not, the budgetary discipline imposed by the lenders will continue by the Greek Government in order to shield capitalist development. He won't stop. That the anti-grassroots measures are permanent, time-consuming and are not going to be stopped, because they are not enforced in the country, as you say, because simply measures are imposed. That's what we say and that's the truth. The Greek bourgeoisie and you are on her behalf. Capitalist homeland, you see, imposes new measures on its multiple oppressed working people. It turns out now that the story about externally imposed memoranda on the neoliberal agenda of Germany's old age is and was a huge mockery in reality. These are not obligations of the country because of memoranda. This is a profound class policy, which aims to shield only the monopolies' profits. What exactly does the medium-term involve? For the four years 2019-2022 it includes measures that will lead to a new cumulative loss of EUR 18.5 billion for popular income. 12.5 billion will come from the new pension cuts, both major and subsidiary, and all 6 billion from the tax reduction for employees, pensioners and farmers. This revenue is increased by 1,2 billion compared to what it planned last year for the three years 2019-2021. This reveals the essence of the so-called countermeasures, with which the less poor will pay for the impoverished. The total of the countermeasures for the four years is EUR 14 billion. These countermeasures appear to be reduced by 5.5 billion for the three years 2019-2021 compared to what was anticipated last year. However, from these countermeasures a total of 3.2 billion will once again support the needs of business groups. Approximately 1.2 billion will go for investment aid, 1 billion for job subsidies and 1 billion for the reduction of the tax rates for legal persons. In other words, we have a redistribution of wealth again for the benefit of business groups. This new robbery at the expense of people's incomes will result in the "blooded" primary surpluses, which are far beyond the target of 3.5% provided for in the Memorandums. Of course, there are other anti-grassroots measures, such as the changes you have made to the EDEAP, the fund of journalists, changes that not only lead to new reductions in supplementary pensions and health benefits, but speed up the process either by closing the EDEAP and including their members in the EIF or by converting them into a professional fund. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece is ringing at this point.]] Changes to the Katseli Act are being imposed, which further aggravate the conditions for accession and any protection provided. In the name of allegedly dealing with the strategic malpractices, banking secrecy is abolished, without setting any limit to the amount of deposits, when it is known that the determination of instalments includes, not only the amount of income, but also the assets. The result will be an increase in doses that will be called upon to pay, while coming out of protection automatically, if it has not paid three instalments, without taking into account real data that may have led him to inability to pay. The main feature of the plan is to support the needs and interests of business groups in every way. This is the red line that goes through the bill, such as changes in the labour market, through which the BSE requirements are met. This is the case with Article 116, which reduces so-called non-wage costs. What does this reduction mean in practice? It means that even the question of the redefinition of lower wages, but also unilateral appeals to arbitration, should not affect the competitiveness of large businesses. Only the workers must be hurt, you tell us. Article 15 contains the mediation and arbitration of collective labour disputes, i.e. the appeal mechanism for a collective agreement to be concluded if this is not signed. This does not mean that it solved the differences between workers and employers for the collective agreement in favour of workers. At least, however, when employers did not sign collective labour agreements, the trade unions appealed to the FIFG to have a collective labour contract. In accordance with Article 15 of the Multifibre Arrangement and as referred to in the explanatory memorandum, there are additional obstacles to the possibility of Arbitration Associations, since there is a dominant procedure. In other words, the intermediary intervenes between employers and unions when they do not agree to sign a collective agreement and makes proposals of his own to sign the collective agreement. If the workers' association is not accepted its proposals, the association shall no longer have the right to appeal to arbitration. The right of appeal shall have only the party in agreement with the mediator's proposals. Thus, if a union rejects the proposal of the employer, it is not possible to use unilateral recourse to arbitration. To have it, he must have accepted the proposal of the mediator who rejected the other party. To date, it has had the possibility of unilateral action, subject only to prior mediation being preceded. The mediator to formulate his proposals, says, to examine persons - Article 15 is this - and any investigation into working conditions, assisted by one or more experts of his choice. This whole process, obviously, is to the benefit of all energy. Furthermore, Article 15, specifying the process of mediation for the conclusion of a collective agreement, sets out the criteria of the procedure as a whole, which are cut and sewn to the needs of the employer in order to be highly profitable. It says that the mediator is considering the economic situation and development of the competitiveness of production activity. Of course, the explanatory statement states that the mediator or arbitration also take into account the purchasing power of wages, but the main here is competitiveness. The other is'shock in the eyes'. All this means that the government, by laying down such conditions for mediation and arbitration, already accepts the request of BSE and other capitalists for collective agreements that serve competitiveness, the profitability of groups, which, if not the unions, will be sealed by mediation or arbitration. He's talking about free negotiations, but he's already set the ground for employers' satisfaction in the matter of collective agreements. It provides for the simplification - in essence - of the licensing procedure, which is converted into a simple notification by means of back-checks, as to whether health and safety measures are complied with, as to whether public health and the environment is protected. In the previous period we witnessed government proclamations that the regime for free licenses for television stations has ended. They probably meant that they would be subsidised from above, as they do with the reductions in advertising revenue tax. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the aggressive promotion of privatisation could not be missing from your menu, because investors want to invest. And to invest, you give them all of it, either with the Greek for which you sold resistance fairy tales, or by reaching the point where you still endure the real estate of the state of 25 billion euros. What does it turn out to be a superintendent? It turns out that, apart from the supervision of the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, the real guilty, the accountable for barbaric violations of popular interests are here first and foremost, in our own country. It is the ruling class, the monopolistic groups and you, Mr President of SYRIZA and the government of SYRIZA and your political counterparts. You are the ones who show every willingness to move forward with the infamous reforms as the big capital needs, the industrialists, the shipowners. These reforms and measures are designed and promoted together with the European Union, of course, the International Monetary Fund and all the other mechanisms that support capitalist profitability. For us, of course, it is no big surprise. It has haird our language to say that capitalism constantly wants new measures to ensure the profitability of capital. As much as you are trying to convince the Greek people that you have found a magical recipe that can ensure capitalist growth and prosperity for the workers, the facts are stubborn. There is unfortunately no such recipe. Behind the transient improved economic data, the reality is that overcompensation of capital at a global level does not find any kind of solution. All serious analyses speak of the unprecedented levels of capital overcompensation, a characteristic version of which is the huge scale of debt growth, private and public, across the world. Capitalism does not find and cannot find new profitable investments for the group's overcompensated capital. Green technologies cannot effectively absorb surplus capital, while new automation technologies create much more problems than they solve, since the great increase in productivity they bring cannot be absorbed by a system that revolves around profit and the need for ever more live work. Innovative investments in the end are unable to do something different from a reset of the profit pie that does not increase at the rate, of course, which needs to be ensured of satisfactory capitalist profitability. The crisis has not solved the problem. The depreciation of capital brought about was minimal in relation to the volume of the existing overcompensated capital. Each state, every imperialist centre, has given - and continues to fight - a hard battle to safeguard its own monopolies with various means of state policy, from an extensive expansionist monetary policy to the trade war that we are seeing now that your closest allies, the United States of America, take measures, all they do is shift the problem a little towards the future, however, by prolonging it. In fact, the only solution chosen by capital around the world is to increase the degree of exploitation of the working class by varying and different mechanisms, with direct wage reductions, promoting privatizations in health, education in social services that eject weight into people's families and indirectly lead to cheaper labour, as well as to smashing those who give them the status of'mediums'. Anyone who is not impoverished is now characterised by you as a middle, penthouse and is unleashing a real anti-grass pogrom, with a drastic cut in all pensions above the survival limit, with a drastic increase in taxation and a reduction in social benefits. You lure another middlemen to find new bleeding sources to support only the profitability of big capital again. Everywhere and over time your side, at this stage of the continuing class war, attacks employees, self-employed and retired. Your infamous countermeasures are more and more rusty and slim compared to the cuts you make. The large majority support the profitability of the groups even directly. Your countermeasures mean that you get from the people's pocket ten and give back one. You literally break, strip the less poor to support capitalist profitability and give little to the impoverished. And we are not going to solve the problem by voting for some measures - crustaceans, which are good for them to take, and which we have been doing all the time over the last few years. The problem lies elsewhere. The system you serve so faithfully, capitalism - to tell you again to inspire it - is attacking the employees, the self-employed and destroying the so-called'mediums'. To support the profits of 1% is equal to 99%, i.e. the whole society, as we call it, downwards and violently. Your policy doesn't unravel us. From the beginning you had this plan, you were just going to the beginning of a lot of people to lure into this categorisation of those who thought something better would be done anyway on the basis of your declarations. You only did it to get time for your plans. Promote the policy and measures needed by the few, big capital, to shield their development. That is what sinful social democracy is doing throughout Europe, of course. We are talking about a development that is neither pluralist nor necessary, a development of which is a new, even harder, anti-grassroots measure. We point out to you and prepare the Greek people: Whatever you do you will not succeed. You cannot bring the capitalist economy back to a phase of stable long-term growth. The same goes for you again in the entire capitalist world. The internal contradictions of this system, its inability to control the productive forces it creates itself, its inability to find investment solutions for the pooled ponds that are ponding are always present. Things are much harder than you want us to believe. From the IMF and the World Bank, from the large American and European banks, all the analyses despite the temporary improvement in the situation of the economy, point to the growing likelihood of a new capitalist crisis in the years to come, with possible starting points for China in Asia and Italy in the Eurozone. Profitability assurance measures are contradictory. The increase in exploitation and the escalation of productivity do not bring about the necessary increase in profits in the long term. Capitalism in no way manages this overcompensation. Contrasts are also exacerbated dangerously between groups, states in alliances, and even within them. The interventions of the United States of America in our region and the final proposal for the transfer of Israel's capital to Jerusalem, which opens up a new longer blood cycle, have the economic basis for the need to safeguard American groups. It is the overcompensation of capital that sets the way for a generalised war. Your Government, with the support of the New Democracy, takes the role of a signifier of NATO projects in the region and thus increases the risk of sovereign rights, peace in the region, in order to upgrade the position of the domestic bourgeoisie in the Eastern Mediterranean, the Balkans, in general. Today's Prime Minister and current Chief of Officerial Representation, the development you are evangelizing is both unfair and unpopular. It means new measures against employees, pensioners, self-employed persons, measures to stay and are neither temporary nor exceptional, measures which do not concern the memorandum nor the lenders. Besides, the fact that measures and the medium-term come for the period after the end of the memorandum shows their real character. These are measures that prove that your development is not and cannot be prologue. The development you want is on the ruins of rights, because what the groups win is lost by the workers. That's why we call on the workers to come out to the fore, to organize their struggle, not to bend their head. There are no dead ends in our proposal. There is only a dead end to today's policies of the individual rulers, a dead end is their system, which is why it must be overturned. We are also voting against this plan and we will also table a proposal for a roll-call vote to record the history of this Parliament once again the political staff of the groups, the thieves of the sweat of our people, the robbers of the property and wealth of the economy, the homeland, workers, farmers, the self-employed professional craftsmen and traders, the scientists, the young and the women of the people's families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-two American students and one American University attendant. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure must be respected, because, until now, twenty-two Members have spoken for a total of thirty-three, so you realise that when time is broken, the possibility of Members being allowed to speak is limited. Mr. Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mr President. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I would not start with this personal reference, but the truth is that I have heard something from Mr Stathakis, who has called on the New Democracy for its position on this issue which is very much overshadowed and obviously also overshadowed today's debate. In order to reach agreement and to be clear, I say this: it is not the New Democracy that has changed its position. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] What's your hurry? I also introduce you to make it easier for you, and despite this, "trick" directly. Is it not the New Democracy that changes its position and is it not why? Because he has said that the strategic axis of this negotiation is that there is no Macedonian nation, he is the current Prime Minister. I want you to explain to me now: since it has this strategic axis in negotiation by the Prime Minister himself, how does it end up concluding the existence of a Macedonian language? How does Macedonian citizenship condone, since there is no Macedonian nation? What nation speaks Macedonian language then? Who's the naturalist as a Macedonian, because there's no Macedonian nation? So the one who goes behind key issues and creates a huge issue is the government. Surprise? Oh, no. Why? Since now - to tell each other and really - you are not concerned with this issue, since there are people who say that it should be named under their constitutional name and have no problem, how will you prioritise these issues which are not your concern? But we'll talk about this. But what we have to conclude is that this is a major issue, and you will allow me to say that here all the institutions - all the political and political institutions will be judged on this - are that you today have no legalisation and authorisation to discuss it, and much more so to sign anything in this regard. And why don't you have it? Because you are not a one-party government and why your government partner says that it does not vote for it. Well, to be informed, the New Democracy in its institutional role will do everything it can and must do at the parliamentary level, so that it does not let you play and mock the Greek people on this basis. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Should the Independent Greeks, of whom no one speaks in today's debate, be assigned one - one coordinate and tell us: Do they authorize the government to sign this? We'll see what everyone means. Very soon, all of this. I need a follow-up in my conversation with Mr. Chakaloto. Mr Tsakalotos, I told you that these commitments made by the Fund are new commitments. You told me that no, they are not new obligations, because they are provided for in the contract with the 2015 memorandum, and you are, in my view, right to resign, because we have voted for it too. You're right to give up on us, I agree with that. However, I would like to clarify the following: Okay, we've solved this. It's a history. We solved this between us. It was solved the way it was solved. Don't worry. I am involved in your debate underneath, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u375	Are you sure? Is it ready?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u376	That's what's gone down. For other things, we'll see. However, take note of what we say, I read the text: 'To be provided', that is invoked by Mr Tsakalots, 'the European Stability Mechanism guaranteeing the beneficiary Member State's obligation to repay the financial contribution from any part of the Privatisation Fund may require that the European Stability Mechanism in its discretion'. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Can I have a minute, Mr. President? I won't abuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u377	Would you like a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u378	A little, yes, to conclude the argument of this debate I have with Mr Chakaloto. That's what Mr. Chakalotos says. This provision says that it is the provision that shapes the framework in which - I stress it potentially - it can grant guarantees today, signing and undertaking commitments for the 25 billion. Question: What does it say here? It says here that 'the European Stability Mechanism may require'. Right? There is a possibility. When does the undertaking take place? The activation of this requirement when, Mr. Chakaloto? Is it in 2015 that they "may" or in 2018 that they ask you to do so? The requirement is therefore activated in 2018, at the request of the European Stability Mechanism. It wasn't mandatory at all. "Possible" says "required", he does not say "will be required". It's linked to the existence of the Privatization Fund, it says so here. It's the superstition you're making, which we don't know at that time, we don't know which elements it includes. You put in this whole public property. We didn't know about the command mechanism. You gave the administration 50% of the foreigners. We didn't vote for the superstition. The superstition says it will only be able to pay if it has profits and 50% of the debt-depreciation profits. We have not voted for this regulation, there was no such arrangement here. In this regulation you have brought for 50%, that does not even provide for that. Because then when we come to the provisions, you have a direct commitment from the supreme body, - listen to this provision that you are voting on, ladies and gentlemen, now - even if the State is void for any reason. In other words, Greece is appealing to the courts and it is considered that it does not owe the loan as a first debtor. The fund still has to pay up to 25 billion and commits the property, even if the first requirement is cancelled. That is what you are voting on today and Mr Tsakalots says to us 'no, it is not a new obligation'. Today that we come out of the memorandum, as you have said, you are committing public property, firstly, for the next hundred years without any possibility of avoiding this obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u379	We continue with the President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group Mr Nikolao Michaloliakos. Here comes Mr. Venizelos. Here you have the floor, Mr. Michaloliaco.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u380	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am succeeding in Steph, the man who succeeded me in the leadership of the youth ENPEN, with the blessings and mandate of George Papadopoulou. Fate makes a lot of games, that's reality. Others move on to the right, others become democrats. Others have to be ashamed of their past, others to be proud. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I come to the summer of 2015, which was mentioned earlier, and in my speech before the referendum in June, when I pointed out to the majority of SYRIZA and said, according to the Minutes of the House: "The Greek people with full consciousness on 25 January 2015 voted against the memorandum" - because against the memorandum was the vote in both SYRIZA and the ANELs and the Golden Dawn and the KKE - "vote and even chose the case for Greece to go to the rocks. A rock is Greece with honor for thousands of years and not a vulture of subjection. The position of the Golden Dawn is clear. No more memorial, not a continuation of the assignment of national sovereignty. Finally, a national development plan, a return to the national economy, national protectionism, the Greek worker, the farmer, the Greek worker." That is what I said at the time, and the New Democracy had voted for the memorandum, stressing 'Get us an agreement and a case of your own measures'. Here's the measures, which are their case. How, then, do you have no responsibility when you voted for the memorandum on what is happening now? And as for the end of the memorandum, which the government advertises, it certainly has nothing to do with reality. The English law, according to which the first two memos were made, is very clear. We also have statements from time to time about the famous supervision and the end of the memorials will be another demonstration of political atrocities and propaganda, such as the famous PASOK in the 1980s that "the bases of death will be gone", which never left. So you, in the words, are going to send out the Memorandum. Debt is really unbearable. There is no way that the Greek economy will grow and there will be a future for the Greek people with this debt. He needs a tough deal. We do not say irresponsibly that tomorrow morning we can denounce the entire debt as a burden and delete it. But we're talking about negotiating. On this issue, we also had the example of Italy, which was very hard to react to by the euro junta of the German zone, which controls and for its benefit is the euro. We finally saw that government was forced and sworn, consisting of the Northern Lega of Salvini and the Five Star Movement. In the case of Italy, in fact, Mr. Yunker, Mr. Yunker, who said the following: "I am not a fan of the opinion that we should give a lesson in Rome. This was done to a large extent against Greece, mainly from the German-speaking countries at the height of the Greek crisis. The dignity of the Greek people has been trampled." Yunker said so and you are responsible for all of you who signed memos because the dignity of the Greek people has been trampled! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the previous speakers of the Golden Dawn in the supervising court as the guarantor of the ESM were quoted in this Multifibre Arrangement. It is a key element of this medium-term memorandum that, if the Greek State fails to repay a instalment of EUR 86 billion of the loan received from the third memorandum - which I repeat that we voted against - the creditors will be able to liquidate the real estate and the movable assets that have been passed on to the surplus. The relevant Minister of Government played with words and said that another mortgage, another guarantee. Are you serious? This thing's from the unwritten. So within the framework of this multi-brand plan, there is, of course, also a reduction in pensions, which shows that some who are currently ruling the country are nothing more than political fraudsters, because they have said and claimed that they will not reduce pensions and that this bill confirms the abolition of the personal difference, which leads to cuts of up to 18% in pensions. Of course, we also have auctions, we have the red loans granted to funds, speculative mechanisms, to the 'brows' of international markets. In this Chamber I suggested that before banks give them to the funds, which most banks will enter, they should make this proposal to borrowers, to the Greek people. That, of course, did not happen. So the auctions go on and the "no house in the hands of a banker" is air words, noble offering to the intertwiners, to the contractors, to those fewer people who don't want them and talk about pluralists, oligarchs, are ready to rampant in the winter palaces, bring the dictatorship of the proletariat, but in the first order in the various institutions along with the oliggers and the pluralists! Responses of who? We, the nationalists of the Golden Dawn and no one else. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Courtesy of the contractors. Up to 150% increase in the Egnatia Road toll. Also, the salaries of civil servants from 11.917,000 euros in 2017 will rise to 13.693,000 euros in 2022: A 20% increase in a dying Greece, in a private sector that is falling to 400 euros. Gentlemen of SYRIZA do nothing but preserve the dirty party client state, the decoyers of power parties, who have filled the public agencies and municipalities. You are giving them increases, at the same time that the Greek people are starving. Appointments continue and in all of this hope comes from Italy. Italian Deputy Prime Minister Salvini, the Northern Lega Movement, said days ago: "Today the SEA WATCH 3" of a German non-governmental organisation, with a flag of the Netherlands, is off the Libyan coast waiting to board for many times immigrants and bring them to Italy. Italy stopped beating the head and obeying. This time there is someone who says 'no'. ‘We close the ports.’ Finally, for the ports to come and say: 'No, we close the ports, we close the border, no more refugees and illegal immigrants will pass to the country'. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] New waves of illegal immigrants have again started to massively violate the borders of Evros and enter. And against all of this, the Evros fence, a length of ten kilometers, which illegal immigrants violate, and there is no one to watch, only cameras, and until people of the security authorities come in where illegal immigrants enter, have passed. At the same time, Turkey has built a fence at the border with Syria, seven hundred sixty-four kilometres. Golden Dawn insists on its proposal for a law of 18 March 2016 that the borders should be closed and, of course, insists on the legislation which it submitted to be imprisoned for at least two years, without any possibility of converting it, who is illegally entering our homeland and who is exposed to special detention centres, away from the urban web and for policing traffickers even the sentence of lifelong ties should be provided. I come to the big issue of the days - and I will conclude with that - in the agreement that the Prime Minister has announced on the occasion. Instead of hiding, he also made an order, as if he were the new Paul Melas. This is a tragic situation in which we live. Let's say a few things about this deal. ‘They have ended up’, says ‘in the name of North Macedonia, Severna Makedonija or Republic of North Macedonia’. Therefore, fairy tales that it will only be in the Slavic name, a story that has been specified from the outset, because the names of the states are translated into four languages. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn hits the warning bell.]] I want two or three more minutes, Mr President. So within that agreement the name Severna Makedonija, Northern Macedonia. Why did Albanians never accept the term 'North Continent'? And not only that, there were also endemic politicians in our country who avoided saying "North Continent" and said "South Albania". Why? Because of course there is the southern continent. "North Macedonia" means that there is southern Macedonia, which, of course, is their pursuit. The albumination is contained in that name itself in it. However, it says in the constitution of the neighbouring country references to the protection of Macedonian minorities are being deleted. [[The ending bell of the speech time of the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn is ringing at this point.]] I'm sorry, but the previous party leader spoke 30 minutes. I'll be done in three minutes. Therefore, references to the protection of Macedonian minorities outside the border are deleted from the constitution of the neighbouring country, and the same article in the Greek Constitution is harmonized. That is unacceptable. This is a confession that there are Macedonians who are not Greek. In addition, Macedonia is recognised as a Macedonian language, noting that northern Macedonia recognises under the agreement that this language is a Slavic language. Slowly accepting, as if he could say that the Skopje dialect is an English dialect or say that he is a German dialect. But it's a Slavic dialect. What would he say? Is that retreat? Are you kidding us? And the most outrageous of nationality, says, is the term "Macedonian/citizen of the Republic of North Macedonia", with the explicit mention that the people of this country are not related to ancient Greek culture. Equally unnecessary, but nationally dangerous is the "Macedonian" with the clarification that he is a citizen of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, because that means that there are Macedonians who are not citizens of northern Macedonia. Who are they? They are the Greeks who live in the Prefectures of Florina, Kastoria and who are proud Greeks, who have nothing to do with them and are national intellects! I can't accept the deal! The New Democracy, of course, has its responsibilities here. However, to us welcome it is to change their policy, because there is indeed a change of policy, because the history of the complex name has been a case of the New Democracy since the 1990s, which has also brought a whole division into the New Democracy party. Don't hide behind our finger. I made a statement on this subject just seventy-five words, thirty-eight seconds, which did not show any channels. You show all the political leaders on the channels - with this ghost ERR you have that doesn't control anyone - and you exclude Golden Dawn. You're not achieving anything with the blockade. Golden Dawn is strong and as long as you sow storms, you will reap storms and as long as you go into retreat to national issues, Golden Dawn will become stronger and stronger. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] The agreement you signed for us doesn't surprise us and it doesn't surprise us at all. Those of us who lived through the rallys in the 1990s know the position of both the JRC and the Coalition and the various left-wing groups you have gathered, the "Roza", the "Red", the Red", trotskyists. All those people were against the rally back then. Is it a lie? Finally, you are consistent communists, you are observing the orders of the Communist International. That is what Communist International said, that Macedonianism is a ghost that was first created by Bulgarian expansionism and then embraced by communism. It is clear that you do not have the majority in the Greek people and you cannot under any circumstances agree. The conditions which have been created today are the definition of the election call for major national issues. No one voted for you to handle the issue of Macedonia. And finally on the last occasion of making a referendum on Macedonia. I will end with the words of a great, man who would mark the twentieth century if the bullets of the democratic and liberals did not murder him, Iona Dragoumi, who said: "You must know that if we run to save Macedonia, Macedonia will save us. It will save us from the stench we are rolling, save us from modesty and from dying, it will deliver us from shameful sleep, it will deliver us. If we run to save Macedonia, we will be saved." Ladies and gentlemen, in Greece, which I dream of, if there was no living in the false romance that the Greek people have literally rotted from the marxist and neoliberal ideologies and everyone is looking at themselves, you could never pass this agreement. Millions of Greeks would rise up, shut down all the streets to the Prespes, and there would be no time to sign a deal. Golden Dawn remains firmly on its line: no compromise for our Macedonia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u381	The President now has the floor, Mr Evangelos Venizelos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u382	Ladies and gentlemen, there is an evil coincidence. Today that the House is discussing a large package of budgetary measures, today that Parliament is discussing the memorandum after the Memorandum, long-term commitments covering the next four years and sometimes reaching 2060, a major foreign policy issue is now dominated by public interest: the issue of the name of our neighbouring country. I have been in favour many times of the single national line established since April 1993 and then adopted by all the governments that have intervened, namely in favour of a solution with a complex name, geographically defined, erga omnes, that is, for internal and international use, a solution in the form of an international agreement in the form of which the constitution of the neighbouring country will also be revised. But the element of the single national line is - and it has always been - the total and final annullation of the alphabetically. I want to be - and I will be - fair and accurate in assessing the draft agreement, without political tactics and without fear of political costs, but I will neither be invincible nor indifferent to possible political and legal implications, which national interests may already jeopardise. That's why I'm waiting to see the text of the agreement. The devil's hiding in the details. And I am glad that the President of Parliament has assured me that the text will be given in both English and Greek to the parties so that there will be a serious study and a responsible place. But this position cannot only concern the name, erga omnes and the Constitution, it must also concern language and citizenship, and above all, the synchronisation of actions at international level, in relation to the European Union and NATO, because things that are happening cannot happen, are very often created in indirect ways, which are binding on the country. After all, the government is already committing the country, even before the signing of the agreement, in the way it handled this negotiation alone and effectively binds it to the eyes of the international community, the UN, the European Union, NATO and the United States. In fact, the government, by handling it and its regularity, trying to create problems in Anti-Population and not to handle, from the level that a large national topic has to deal with, does not leave room for improvements, which are needed in a text that has not been adopted legally, but which in fact already produces results and creates frictions. Without national consensus and unity, we cannot resolve major historical issues. Could we resolve issues of Greek-Turkish relations or Cyprus, without unity and consensus, with party dispute, with a view to the juncture and the next elections? Oh, no. Unfortunately, the Greek Parliament will be retrospectively seized, perhaps several months later, when legal and political situations have already been established, which will not be improved or further reversed, at the time of ratification by the Greek Parliament of this agreement. So the responsibility is exclusively for the government, which must be fully aware of its responsibility, which is political and also historical. This concerns both SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, who allegedly disagree with the agreement, but who support the Prime Minister and the Government who negotiates, concludes and sign this agreement, and through signature binds the country and legally. Look, the evil coincidence of discussing today major economic policy issues and foreign policy requires me to remind you that since 2009-10, which was the adventure of the country, until 2015, we have never linked economic policy and memoranda to foreign and defence and security policy, and I ask the government to respect this principle. I am not moved or excited by the statements of foreign factors who are happy to welcome the agreement before the Greek Parliament is placed. And I do not dare to believe or say that the government's agonizing negotiation of the so-called exit from the memorandum may somehow be linked with moves in the field of foreign policy. Do you, ladies and gentlemen of the House, have a conscience of the commitments made by the country for a period exceeding the constitutional limit of this House and of this Government? Now, the conflict over the supposedly clean exit or the shape of the political credit line is overdue. The clean exit record has long collapsed, long before the problems in Italy. It has collapsed on the understanding that net exit means returning to markets, returning to normality and under the assumption that net exit means return to customer relations and fiscal populism, without supervision, without limit. The question is that we are not talking about the substance of the matter now, because the country has become fiscally captive for many years, for the purposes of handling the last three years, in fact, because of the manipulations of the last three years, because in December 2014 there was a prospect of a preventive credit line. Today, as you have heard many times, you take the heavy obligation to guarantee the property of the so-called surplus fund for 25 billion. The 25 billion, obviously, have been integrated by the partners into the financial scheme in the years to come. Where have we been told for years that we have betrayed the country because the loan contracts are governed by English law? Where are the preachers of legal and political populism who said there would be an enforced execution against public property, and that would reach the Acropolis and the ancient monuments of the country?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u383	They're at the headquarters of the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u384	When we told them that the law of enforcement is the law of the place of execution, that is, Greek law, they did not understand what we were saying. Now they understand from what law is this guarantee of 25 billion on public property, which is taken as a private asset and which has been committed for ninety years? And don't they feel the slightest shame of apologising for what they were saying, humiliating themselves and the Greek people? [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] But is that all? It is the heavy, Babylonish captivity in the logic of overcrowding. Overflows, not high primary surpluses. Is this a voluntary option, supposedly, for the government to redistribute small allowances back?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u385	It'll be beforehand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u386	It is now a commitment to legislation, a commitment to the financial structure, a commitment to the partners. And when you prove that you are supposed to be able to achieve growth and the real economy with high primary surpluses and surpluses, you are not taken seriously as a negotiator of favourable debt measures, because you have proven...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u387	Read the medium term. Don't lie. Read it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u388	You will talk to me again when you come to the House to answer my question about how the cash reserves are being formed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u389	Read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u390	Well, in the medium term, he says and listen, so you understand the numbers...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u391	You haven't read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u392	Listen to me calmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u393	Of course, calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u394	Listen. The surpluses from 2016 to 2022 are 18.5 billion, almost as long as the country's primary deficit was in 2009, i.e. about 10% of 2018's GDP. At that time it was 10.5% of GDP in 2009.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u395	You're watching the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u396	That's what you've done. The excesses...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u397	You're watching the House? Have you followed the conversation? We've explained it to you, Mr. Juliarakis, I.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u398	Please, Minister, do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u399	I'll react heal later, now I want to react politically. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u400	Read the medium term.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u401	Minister, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u402	The surpluses, therefore, are not justified. You have done this amazing: you have accepted surpluses and high primary surpluses before we discuss measures and debt before we find out what the necessary interest will be in the coming years. Even if there are no interventions until 2022, we have no interest in the debt of more than 3.3% of GDP. Why does the country have to achieve 2022, for days of another government, at the end of the next four years, a primary surplus of 5.2% of GDP?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u403	Put your hands up!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u404	Because that's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u405	Put your hands up!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u406	You've reversed the deal. You're committed...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u407	Put your hands up!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u408	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u409	Hands up! You haven't even read in the medium term.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u410	Haven't I read?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u411	You haven't read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u412	I've read it and understood it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u413	You haven't followed the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u414	Minister, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u415	Take the floor, once I'm done...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u416	I'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u417	I'll answer you. Calm down and watch!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u418	You haven't followed the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u419	Calm down and watch! No political hysteria to me within the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u420	Minister, I will give you the floor, but don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u421	Mr President, take the view back. This is not an expression for this House!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u422	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u423	The second captivity is captivity in the security cash reserves, which exhaust liquidity from the insurance funds, from the legal entities governed by public law, from all over the real economy, in order to find a so-called financial area. Watch out, what financial space? Not the financial area we wanted, calling for smaller primary surpluses, to achieve a higher rate of growth and to 'breath' the economy, but the financial area, the virtual one, after circumventing the economy to death, then leave a small margin of subsidised policy and supposedly redistribution. This is the financial area, because you have made incorrect strategic negotiations on debt, because you have never been able to connect the country's request for additional measures in relation to debt following 2012's measures with the financial area. In other words, with the necessary level, with the possible level of the primary surpluses. Why? Because with the trick of overcrowding, as I have said many times, what happened to the opponents of Eleftherios Venizelos, when they denounced the policy of the Asia Minor presence of Greece, but then they went to the sagrio and led to the Asia Minor Destroy, because they did not know what Greeks do in Asia Minor, which is the deepest strategic reason for their presence. So you, in underestimating and discrediting our agony, our effort, the intervention of public debt, have now reached these jokes, the comedian results. Now, the next government has to act on this, with the country now voting on the multiannual budget by 2022; for that is what we are voting on now, the multi-annual general government budget by 2022 - which is called on to handle another government, since the country is bound by this government, without legalisation, but without awareness, as I have said many times. While we have to discuss tax relief, insurance relief, the effective reopening of the banking system, how are we going to discuss, when the supplementary memorandum has already agreed the narrow, narrow margins on which both tax and insurance and financial policy can move? What's the medium term doing? In fact, it takes the supplementary memorandum, the memorandum without end, the memorandum without a loan and transforms it into a legislative commitment of the country - a commitment of long breath, unfortunately. That's the situation. Here we go. This poses a huge problem, because the country is condemned to stagnation, to anemic development and a narrow horizon is formed, without legalisation. This has been demonstrated by the results so far. Are we going back now, after three years, where was the country before the January 2015 elections? I wish we'd come back. The losses are, unfortunately, final. These losses are historical losses. And for them you have a great deal of responsibility towards the future and with our children. So, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to be aware of the weight of your vote, because today's vote validates political choices, which are structurally incorrect, and which cause profound damage to the body of society and the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u424	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, fourteen members of the Association of Corfu Iliopolis and of the Municipalities "Phaika". The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor, Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos. I would ask you, Minister, to show some coolness to maintain a calm climate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u425	Firstly, it is obvious, Mr Venizelos, that you have not followed any debate in this House, either in committee or in plenary. It is clear that you did not hear me - forget me - or Mr Juliarakis, who explained exactly what the table you are talking about is about, with the excesses. It is a table, which shows that the surplus of about 2.0% - I do not remember right now - goes to about 3.5%, to 3.96%, to 4.15%, to 4.55% and 5.19%, if I say it correctly. Mr. Juliarakis explained to you, too, that these numbers are not the new target. We do not aim at overcompensation of 3.5%, 3.9%, 4.15%, etc. These are not the objectives. They're on the board to help you in the conversation. They're just showing what the primary surplus would be if we didn't do anything. So, they're not new targets. We're not aiming to be overcrowded. Secondly, we have explained that we do not have the aim of this being a dividend which will be retrospectively granted, as you have said. A New Democracy MEP said so earlier, and I have noted it. We explained that this is being created every year. Let's take the last year, for example. 5.19% minus 3.5% will be available to spend time before the budget. In fact, apart from the first year, which we said it was EUR 700 million, the surplus that we would spend in advance for tax reductions, from there on, there would also be a mixture of tax reductions and an increase in expenditure. We have already called on you to have a debate on whether you are closer to us, that is to say, to be the weight more in a mix of tax evasions and expenditure, to have schools and hospitals, etc. or if you are closer to the New Democracy, which is obviously because of the social economy - how we said it - which it supports, it wants tax relief. So there are no excesses. There's no expense, retrospective dividends. There's this place to get to 3.5 a year. I explained it to you. Mr. Juliarakis explained it to you. Please, fight for whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u426	The numbers are data.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u427	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u428	The numbers on the board, Mr. Bourras, they say what the surplus will be. What don't you understand, Mr. Bourra?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u429	You underestimate us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u430	Hey, you don't understand. What am I supposed to do? I've explained it to you. The table says what will be the surplus if we do not use it in the financial area. That's the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u431	Now with hypothetical scenarios on such serious issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u432	Please, Mr. Bourra.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u433	There's no hypothetical scenario, Mr. Bourra. It is the financial area that is being created to spend. So, Mr. Venizelo, the second part of your speech is inappropriate and really, it's not based on anything. There is neither a target for overcompensation nor a dividend back. He'll be ahead. We invite you to have a conversation. The second is commitment for sixty years. I imagine you're referring to 2% of primary surpluses. Can you answer this question after I saw that you asked why you were answering? With the two pack and the six pack, that is the agreement, which has been made through the Stability Pact, if we had not agreed this approach to 2%, what primary surpluses - with your calculations and by taking a medium-term debt scenario and what will we get - would they need to be within the rules of the European Union and the Stability Pact, whether we consider it a good deal or not? I think, Mr President, I was calm. I explained to you what my disagreement was.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u434	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u435	Is that enough for you? Do you want two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u436	Give me three minutes, Mr President. Don't be gypsy. Minister, when the framework of the second programme and the high debt intervention was established in 2012, the objective of high primary surpluses for accounting and arithmetic reasons appeared in order to have an internal, mathematical logic of the debt sustainability study. You raised Greek society, upset Greek public opinion, saying that this theoretically imprinted objective of the high primary surplus is disastrous for the real economy, when in the same debt sustainability study there was a precondition for the primary growth surpluses of at least 2.5% each year. Now, you are committed to 3.5% primary surplus by 2022 and 2.3% by 2.4% primary surplus - just below 2.5% says the agreement - by 2060.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u437	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u438	And what forecast for average annual growth rate? Nothing guarantees from this forecast that is actually miserable and disastrous for it to be of the order of 1.2% that the economy can be endured and provide such primary surpluses. And all this without knowing the measures on debt, without knowing who will be the annual interest that will be burdening us all over the period until 2060, without having settled medium-term and medium-term debt issues. It's all backwards. It's all in reverse. You are now saying that our commitment to high surpluses that go from 3.5% to 5.2% in 2022 is theoretical. We show what room for action we have with tax reductions or social policy measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u439	Beforehand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u440	Wait a minute. If they exist, there are obviously after 2019, because in 2016, in 2017, the surpluses were really. Bleeding was ours. Yours were obviously pink surpluses under recession or zero growth! And now we are going to the financial area that proves mathematically that you are supposed to have between a high primary surplus of 3.5% and a surplus. If you have him, then why are you taking the measures to cut pensions, which do not give up 1.8 billion, but give 2.7 billion? Why are you taking the measures to limit duty, which give another 1% of GDP? If what you say is true, then you would have relieved the economy and society of the package of additional budgetary measures. And if you miss, if growth rates are not the ones that have been budgeted, if the reservations of the Greek financial board and the ESM are confirmed, what are you going to do? Not only will you have a financial space for alleviations, but the next government should take additional budgetary measures. You also appear as a ruler, a member of the House of Lords, generous and say: "We have a mandate to rule until September 2019." Until September 2019 based on the mid-term tables, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has nothing to give, because the great margins belong to the next government. So you are now working on the budgetary margins of the next government. We must thank you, Mr Chakaloto, for offering the opposition and the nation's future!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u441	That's right. I need a minute, Mr President. This seems to be a conversation. I understood, in order to be honest, and I am not saying it aggressively, that we agree that there is no objective from the government to have surpluses, that there is no target for the government to give dividends back, but that it should be spent in advance every year that the budget for next year is to be spent. So, the criticism I made about your first speech, I think you accepted it. Now, you say something about the debt, which I propose when we have the decision on 21 June, to come here to the House or to the Committee on Economic Affairs, where the institutions think that we should and are better, to discuss whether we really need to worry if, after this debt arrangement, we can have 2% or we cannot have 2%. You did not answer me, but maybe when this debate takes place you will answer to me what would be the primary surplus if we were on the six pack and on the two pack, that is, if we were in the Stability Pact. The third point you put to me was on measures - countermeasures and why we don't get them out of here. I have addressed this debate several times. But to say something that forgives the New Democracy, forgives us, but does not forgive you. We never asked the IMF to get into the program. You brought it into the program. Mr. George Papandreou brought the IMF. We were already in the programme when we came, and we had to. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Although you were advised not to bring the IMF, you said from Kastelorizo: please come the IMF to the program. So don't get us on top of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u442	Can I have the floor? It's interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u443	I would ask you, Mr President, to conclude the debate. I'll give you the floor, but let's stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u444	You, Minister of Finance, after your Eurogroup experience, have you realised that the IMF imposed this on a Greek government, or that on his stay in the program it will be set by another Greek government yours? The IMF imposed it at the heart of the Eurozone, Germany and the strong financial European governments because of distrust in the European Commission, which was unable to predict and inhibit the crisis of 2008. But now, you have concluded a "cohabitation pact" with the IMF and you expect the IMF to put pressure on the debt measures, without perhaps realizing here, in our country, that the debt measures are being taken by the borrower, the one who has to go to his parliament for the financial burdens that he bears, in order to help some other euro area countries with a problem. Now you tell me 'the two-pack, the sex-pack what impact would it have?' It would have an impact on the budget deficit or the budgetaryly balanced budget. We, anyway, are going to be a support programme, a memorandum, and then we will be left in a memorandum without a new loan, because the leftovers of the third loan will be held by Mr. Regling and will have them in his hands, as he will have in his hands in practice, and the cash buffer. We are not talking about a budget deficit, we are not talking about budgetaryly balanced budgets. We are talking about high primary surpluses, which also create a budgetary surplus now with the logic of the primary surplus. We are far beyond the rules of economic governance of the normal Member States of the euro area. I, too, look forward to the debate with great anxiety and interest when the debt measures come. You will allow me to tell you this: Read your 2012 negotiation file again, to help the country or even not to hurt it any further now that you are supposed to conclude your negotiation on the new debt wave.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u445	Mr Kyriazidis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u446	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u447	Here, you have the floor, Mr. Manda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u448	Mr President, in order to protect the procedure, I would suggest something about a phrase that was said in a debate by President Venizelos with the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos. The Minister for Finance said: 'I raise my hands up'. The words ‘...’ are replaced by the words ‘...’. It would be a good thing if this phrase were removed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u449	To be removed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u450	If I touched anyone's sense of humor, delete the phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u451	Delete. Here, Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u452	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the shadow of the unequivocal and state-of-the-art agreement of a government without political legitimacy, the fifth Memorandum of Understanding is currently being discussed...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u453	Fifth, do you think? Fourth one says Voridis!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u454	Okay, we agree. If you want the fourth, I correct, and I say the fourth memorandum. Accept SYRIZA. The fourth Memorandum of Understanding does make our country's debt colony, as former Minister of Government SYRIZA - ANEL - who wants to maintain some positive features. These features of me many times as a government MP in the period 2012-2014 led me to dilemmas, so that I did not vote for prerequisites, reaching before my deletion, because as "dollars, germans, sold, mercelists" you described us, we voted against anti-grass measures. And now you bring for you the fourth Memorandum, for me the fifth, undermining and narcoticizing not only the next New Democracy government by 2022, but also its homeland and inspiring potential by 2115. It is a memorandum in English which, although we agreed in the committee's debate to be tabled, we ignore its fate to date. I note this in order to highlight the size of your hypocrisy and sedition and how your authority changed you ideologically. And why this report? Because all the representatives of operators who came to the committee, of course, and your comrades, have blamed you for the impoverishment of society and for your neoliberal policy, which would be jealous of the hardest imperialists. In particular, the new memorandum commits the country to achieving high primary surpluses for four years after 2018. You triumph that you will catch surpluses, Minister, of 5.2%, forgetting that you have already mentioned that primary surpluses of 3.5% kill society and strangle the economy. Now you admit that austerity will continue in more painful conditions and situations, because the fifth memorial to me - fourth to you - brings new measures that lead to the loss of one to three pensions, an supplementary pension and one wage and raises the total account to the detriment of pensioners and employees at 14.5 billion. In fact, you admit that these will be implemented outright and independently of the achievement of the budgetary objectives. On the other hand, any countermeasures will be implemented as long as the budgetary objectives are met. All of us, of course, remember something parallel with fairy tales, something parallel with programs and something equivalent and something like seaweed for silk ribbons. The fifth Memorandum reduces the main pensions since 2019, the personal difference in supplementary pensions has been cut since 2019, the insurance contributions of the free professionals have been increased by 35%, the duty-free limit has been cut from 2020 to around one million owners. As far as duty-free is concerned, it is a second reduction. I must remind you, Minister, that you are leaving, that you were committed to resignation if this were to be done or implemented. Now? Now, unfortunately, you are moving towards an even greater reduction in duty. It is now unequivocal that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is trying to establish a peculiar private - state-run regime. After impoverished the middle class and made the poor beggars, leaving them uncontrollable to the tycoons who until yesterday complained to drinking the blood of the workers, creates a society of the former Eastern Soviet Bloc with a stretched hand in the tail for a pile of social pharmacies, society grocery stores, social hospitals and so on, a society that is demanded for a five-month employment, for an eight-month contract. On the other hand, a productive citizen who is trying to take away from him, for example, from the EUR 100 the 80 he produces, so that he survives the system that you make. Finally, to survive politically and to remain in the political scene you are selling the country and economic and national. Economically, because instead of a lentil board, you pave the public property until 2115 for 25 billion. Nationally, because as a Macedonian MP, I am ashamed that the government of my country with the shameful agreement makes me and makes my fellow Macedonian minority of Greece a government without political legitimacy, after it has succeeded in achieving the complete failure of all the issues it managed, has brought us more than a hundred years back to claim again as a nation and as a people the existence of our history and origin. This is a national betrayal. One is the solution in the face of the intended disaster. The solution must be given by our sovereign people. Unfortunately, this is the harsh reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u455	Before the speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Stylis, the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, will make certain legislative arrangements. Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u456	These are legislative improvements, following the debate in committee and the hearing of bodies, clarifications and verbal recasting. I'm filing them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u457	Mr. Stylus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u458	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in every new bill with new measures brought by the country's longest-lived Memorandum Government, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, I personally find myself embarrassed, as arguments and words lose their value. It is in vain to recall what the government today said in the unrecognised years of anti-memorandum opposition, with what promises and policies came to power, how he dealt in the first months of 2015, when he assured that he began writing the agreement, when after the third memorandum he followed the parallel programme, later countermeasures and a series of dozens of false promises. Our rapporteur and many of my fellow Members have mentioned the measures of EUR 5.1 billion contained in the bill, with the new pension cuts and the reduction of duty-free up to EUR 5.600 over the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to what you have done, but without being provided for in a memorandum, without being asked to do so. Mr. Venizelos was mentioned before. I am going to dwell on a point which I consider to be a major issue of legitimisation, the issue of the secret memorandum. The two finance ministers have spoken and said that the surpluses, which are calculated for the next years 2019, 2020, 2021, are the financial area to be created and which you will return to the citizens. The question therefore arises: Since there was overrun in both 2016 and 2017 and this year in 2018, why did you not return it to the citizens? Was there a secret agenda? Hidden deal? A hidden memorial? Apparently there was. Why didn't you tell the House and the citizens about your secret plan? In simple terms, you raised EUR 20 billion in cash to get out with it on the markets. In other words, you have made it easier for lenders not to go further than the debt. We'll see then. I remind you of the commitment of lenders since 2012 to debt relief. The government of SYRIZA - ANEL has implemented a secret memorandum without the approval of the Greek people, a non-legalized plan. He succeeded in serving their lenders and their governments. Ladies and gentlemen, the current government majority accused the former Government of New Democracy of the bloody surpluses of 3% to 4.5% for three years that kill society. That's what they said then. However, surpluses that were linked to high growth rates. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government subsequently declared that in the third memorandum it agreed on lower surpluses, so that it would then come without any reason to drain the economy and the market. It celebrates because it has achieved over-period of 6.3% of GDP over the past three years. They're counting around 21 billion euros. Without a reason, the government has declared a stop to payments, it has imposed an unjust austerity without asking for it. And that's to be trustworthy to the partners. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government is repulsing reforms, it has allergies to structural changes in the state, it is against entrepreneurship, it is against the market. And that is why it applies the most painful policy of overcrowding. For the next five years, the forecast surplus will reach 5.2% of GDP in 2022. You will remove a total of EUR 8 billion from the economy. Why are you doing this? To look king-in-law? You who would save Europe from austerity? Let us compare, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the GDP of the rest of the countries that have come out of the memoranda at this time. Ireland increased GDP by 13% over the last three years, Cyprus by 9.3%, Portugal by 6.1%, Greece by 0.9%. They are official information from the European Commission. Four numbers, one tough truth: Greece instead of converging, deviating from the European Union. The country was submerged in unnecessary austerity and zero growth. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'm done. Greeks now owe EUR 102 billion to taxi, EUR 31 billion to insurance funds and about EUR 100 billion to banks - I am not counting on the rest of the debts to the CECE - and you celebrate the net exit. Please answer me, please. In relation to Ireland, Cyprus and Portugal, what additional austerity measures have been imposed following the end of the programme, without money, ladies and gentlemen? What do these countries have to do with huge surpluses for over five years? Where's the clean exit? There's no clear exit. There's only deception, mocking and mocking. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government voted thirty new taxes, it has cut pensions twenty times and today brings new cuts. This policy is not only anti-grassroots, it is also deeply immoral. Ladies and gentlemen, a new government, a political change that will come to the country, will give home prospects and future, a New Democracy government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u459	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary spokesman of the Union of Centres, Mr Saridis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u460	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of tomorrow's vote on this urgent multiplier plan, but also of the forthcoming signature to the Prespecies of the Skopje agreement, many of our fellow citizens were given the opportunity to answer many of their questions, questions which did not seek an answer to the words of politicians, but in their actions. And they found them. As you will soon see, these answers strengthen one thing only: the rhetoric of the limbs. So don't ask yourself why the limbs are so attractive. You, ladies and gentlemen, have fed the snake. You have stolen the egg, you have raised the snakes in the crust of our democracy. I was wondering why we didn't do something about the credibility of the polls. The answer is very simple: no one here wants the polls to suddenly become reliable. No representative of the political system would like to be constantly confronted with the real rate of acceptance of his positions. How would you, ladies and gentlemen, vote tomorrow on the new memorandum? How would you sign the sale of our Macedonia? How could you blame as nationalists for reacting to this sale? The political system in Greece did not want or want to have a reliable system of recording what the citizens want. By growing up, our parents taught us to be careful where we put our signature and learn so from our side, only that this truth is half truth and is not whole. We are preparing our young people in a wrong way for their exit to society and the market. We must explain to them that, if they are signed once, their vote is a thousand times more important. The vote is the unconditional surrender of the signature. When you vote for someone, you give him the right to sign for you. This right will be exercised tomorrow by those from this Chamber who sign the new memorandum. This right will be exercised by the government when it signs the Skopje Agreement. So voting is more important than signing. Who explained this to the Greeks? We have never explained the value of the people's vote in this country. It doesn't take us to have it high in their understanding and conscience. The domestic political system cannot stand it. What would happen in the country, if the real work of the political forces was to explain to the citizens the truth of the situation, the problem and present choices and solutions, leaving them to decide what will eventually become the law of the state and what not? The answer you give to this question is a threat. You are threatening the chaos that will allegedly arise if citizens were to participate more in the procedures in their name, if any they had the right to control what is signed and agreed on, without them. You are threatening chaos so that you can explain why you are consciously keeping them from the outside, except for the procedures of parliamentary and democracy. For the same reason, neither of you are concerned about the number one problem of our democracy, abstention. No one has done anything, absolutely nothing to deal with abstention. The reason is simple. You're interested in abstention. Every time a citizen arrives at the amenity, every time a citizen closes by boiling down the TV, his newspaper, his radio, you are glad, because there are fewer and fewer citizens who are willing to stand up and engage in the political jungle. We have become a jungle, ladies and gentlemen. The political dialogue is no longer made with arguments, but with threats, with lies, with blackmail, with mud. Our main issues, what predominant in the political debates, are who is the most to blame or whether they are to blame or if they are to blame now, who is better to be a governor, the liar or the thief, when this country's delay is measured, since 1975 or since 2015, who sold Greece first and who sold it second. That is what public political dialogue is undermining. This is done on purpose, ladies and gentlemen. It is deliberately done, with intent, with treachery. Do what you can to disguise the Greeks from the political system and resign, to be discouraged, to abstain. This makes it easier for you to be a politician. In democracy, however, ladies and gentlemen, there are no deadlocks. You have enclaved the Greeks, convinced them that they did not vote government in September 2015, but managers of the monuments, managers of the defeat of this place, the defeat of this people. In the first fourteen articles of the bill, in this very urgent bill, we are lawfully making the rule of the public of the most expensive building to be built in our country, we are legislating for the publics of the rich, separate from those for everyone else. It cannot be at the same level of service as the poor, we cannot allow them to stand in line to serve all those who, with their lots of money, buy a house in the greatest investment in our history. We cannot tolerate these people walking on streets without lighting, nor are we able to accumulate the garbage under their balconies on their sidewalks, so today we are voting in particular for them to adopt a better public management regulation. At the same time, then, as a memorial obligation not to trouble the rich, at the same time you say nothing about the eviction of the social medicine into the Greek. Or don't you know? You don't know that? The social doctor who has to show measurable and specific work, unlike most public services, the social doctorate based on volunteerism rather than on the sack, the social doctor in which the indifferent cancer patients resort, because they don't have access to the public health system, this social doctor found no space in the public-shared management regulation, the rich, for a left-wing government. This is how the other articles of the Multi-Project are continued, Articles 15 to 22, the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. These do not need comment, they need translation. Pensions are therefore recalculated, wages become competitive, insurance contributions are rationalised, collective agreements are renegotiated. That's what you say. Citizens understand that pensions are being cut, that wages are being reduced, that insurance contributions are increasing without any objection, that workers' rights have been abolished. Articles 45 to 78 of the Ministry of Development - a Ministry that we will objectively accept either that it has not been the object or that we will accept that it has failed - they have one purpose to hide the truth of what is bad for the people of that country for the immediate future. On the one hand, they are trying to manage the failure of the assessment by the previous minister for moral reasons, namely that the extrajudicial mechanism would benefit four hundred thousands of businesses, and on the other hand they are trying to camouflage what they owe to the banks, the same banks that we have recapitalised three times from the taxpayers' pockets and which they feel the need to protect from the citizens of this country. Thirty articles to protect the banks from the citizens and so much to protect the money of the lenders, not the capital, but the interest they estimate will take. You dare and refer to Article 109 in what guarantees lenders that they will not lose their money, even if we have to sell the NSAF, what proves that we have actually borrowed from loan sharks and not from partners friends and allies. This is a continuation of what you have all voted together, SYRIZA, PASOK, Change Movement, New Democracy, Potami, Independent Greeks in August 2015. Not only do you rule, as you have subjected to extortion, but you cannot manage the memos as well. That's the truth. I now come to the issue of Macedonia. From the first day you opened the misleading debate on unrelated issues, such as how many thousands of people were finally out on the streets at the rallys of Thessaloniki and Athens or how heavier and more moral the vote on the left is than the right-wing vote, or how he gets his value in this country, from the first day I saw you doing these, I came to the conclusion that you do not know that you have any idea about whom you are ruling. I ask you directly and I ask you again today: does it not surprise you that they have not come out for other reasons, but have our Greek citizens been on the streets for Macedonia? Does it not surprise you that it hurts the Greek most to give the name of Macedonia as long as all the cuts in wages, pensions, allowances and benefits are taken together? Have you not wondered what makes the Greek tolerate the effects of the incompetence of his political representatives, to tolerate being subjected to extortion, but at the same time not to allow him to sit unfaithful and disgusted when his national laws and his history are at stake? Ladies and gentlemen, today you are sowing winds, tomorrow you will reap storms. Those who will sign your signatures in the agreement, those who defend it publicly will have to answer three questions. First, how many of those who voted for you knew what your position was for the scout was? Secondly, how many of those who voted for you were aware of your position on the sceptic, but have they chosen you as better managers of the memoranda and not to sell out Macedonia's name? Thirdly, how many of the people who voted for you were aware of your positions on national issues, but have they preferred you because they thought you'd get through the strife and corruption of the former? I would inform you, for you to know, that those who have voted for you to better manage the memos here today, with what you are voting on, are getting their answer. So I inform you that those who have voted for you to defeat strife and corruption today in here, with what will be voted on, will get their final answer. I tell you so that you know that those who voted for you in September 2015 and who did not take into account your planning potential positions on national issues are now hitting their heads on the wall. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I just need a minute, Mr President. I've said it before and I'll say it as many times as I need to. The Greeks withstand the troika, the IMF, Shoeble, withstand the fucking twigs, the cubes, they withstand the lies, the delusions, thefts, the ethnic defeats. Now let's see if you can withstand this reaction of the Greeks, who will go out on the sidewalks, the squares, the streets to scream for the name of Macedonia, for this shameful agreement that the government has made without the legitimacy of doing so on its own. The Centro Association says 'no' to this plan. He says 'no' in all his articles. It says 'no' in principle and in total. It says 'no' to the tradition of the name 'Macedonia'. And he'll be out there tomorrow, along with all those who yell, along with all those who love Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u461	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u462	I would like a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u463	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u464	Mr Saridis, because it's a sensitive social issue, I'm taking this intervention. Maybe you weren't the other day. Mr. Skourletis, the Minister responsible, fully committed that there is no question of the Greek social office.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u465	Do you want me to answer you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u466	No, I don't. I tell you there has been this commitment, and so on. Because it's a sensitive social issue and they're listening to us, they know. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u467	You're making promises.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u468	Please! It has gone ahead and solutions have been found, etc. He's in our knowledge. Let's talk about what's there, not talking about others. They're listening to some vulnerable groups and not just. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u469	The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u470	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of tomorrow's tabling and voting in the middle of 2019-2022, I would like to make a brief account of the budgetary strategy for the last three years from September 2015 to today. First of all, let me say that fiscal policy over the last three years has been designed in an exceptional environment - in the poor sense - macroeconomic conditions. The country was excluded from international capital markets. It was already in a long-term deep recession. The financial area was zero. Monetary policy was no longer at the hands of a national central bank - we are members of the European Monetary Union - and the conditions in the banking system were particularly unfavourable, precisely because it had been shaken by chronic weaknesses and long-term recession. In very few cases over the last hundred and fifty years, the country has been in a similar position. Excluded from the markets was found again in April 1932 during the Middle War and at the end of the 19th century. In neither case were they not a member of the monetary union, i.e. without the possibility of conducting monetary and exchange rate policy. In this context, the budgetary policy of the last three years has been formulated. The budgetary policy has therefore been organized with this data on two lines. The first axis was the necessary - and I would say unavoidable - correction of the country's structural budgetary imbalances in order to restore credibility in economic policy, remove the causes of the country's exclusion from international capital markets and reintegrate it safely into the international economic system. As I said before, when a country is excluded from the markets and is maintained in life by lending from the official sector, accompanying it very strict - one would say, burdensome - economic conditions, priority is given to the lifting of the conditions that led to it, namely the restoration of the credibility of the public finances and the worthy of the Greek public. At the same time, fiscal policy has attempted, as far as possible and as effectively as possible, to heal the injuries left by the long-term recession on the social body and, in particular, the most vulnerable parts of it, the low incomes, the unemployed and the children. In view of the above two objectives, therefore, namely the restoration of credibility and as much protection as possible of the weakest, I would say the voices, parts of Greek society and despite the sterile criticism of counter-population, we can say that the exercise of budgetary policy was a success. First of all, the objectives of the primary surpluses have been caught and overcompensated. It's a conversation we have to have at some point. After eight years, after 2009, last year, in 2017, the country came out of the European Union's excessive deficit process in both years 2016 and 2017 for the first time - I think it has not been particularly well known - in modern Greek economic history, the country records a general government budget surplus. It comes into a club of European Union countries with surpluses of general government, not just primary, that we expect them to be maintained in the medium term. At the same time, tools such as social solidarity income, covering hundreds of thousands of households, were developed to support family allowances by about 260 million, 20%, new tools for reducing child poverty, some mocking them, such as school meals, have been developed, such as the extension of nurseries, etc. There is no doubt, of course, that nothing is free. There is no doubt that there are no magical solutions and that these fruits of the financial adjustment have been costly and the price, above all, has been the burden of an important part of both households and businesses, whose sacrifices now allow the country to look at the future with optimism. And it is precisely in these categories of citizens that the benefits of recovery should be turned first of all. As the country gradually recovers access to the international capital markets, as the macroeconomic sizes of the Greek economy are improved and its creditworthiness is upgraded, economic policy priorities must gradually turn towards changing the budget line so that the state budgets of the next four years to strengthen the household income available, to support securely sustainable and fair recovery and to address, in a targeted way, chronic social deficits, such as the reduction of unemployment, investment in human capital and the fight against child poverty, objectives to which the distance from the European Union remains significant. This gradual shift in the budget policy mix is therefore reflected in the medium-term budgetary strategy programme 2019-2022. The budgetary area which emerges annually - and I spoke quite thoroughly about it yesterday - from the economic recovery in the years to come, without any new measures, i.e. without additional austerity, is committed to the permanent reduction of tax burdens, insurance contributions and the targeted reinforcement of specific categories of primary expenditure. I would just like to remind you that by 2022, the space that is created, without new measures being taken, and therefore the area that will be exploited - take care of it - will be budgeted for permanent tax reduction measures and additional primary expenditure - is of the order of EUR 3.6 billion, of which two-thirds - 65%, i.e. about 228 million, 000, 000, 000 - will go to tax reductions and an additional 1.3 billion to an increase in targeted social expenditure. And I wonder when, for three years, the Census asked for exactly that, it asked for a permanent reduction in tax rates, why does it not support the medium-term? Why does it not support the medium-term budgetary strategy framework now? [[At this point the closing bell of the Deputy Minister's speaking time is ringing.]] Give me a minute more, Mr President. I have two questions: Firstly, what would he do differently. How much more would it reduce taxes? And if it further reduced taxes, what would it not do from what the medium-term programme is proposing today? [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] I conclude by saying that the international environment in which the Greek economy will move, after the completion of the programme, i.e. after the summer, will not be easy. We already have several signs showing that clouds of economic uncertainty are densing. It will be characterised by increased volatility in bond markets, especially in the European region, as well as by significant risks arising from the change in the direction of the United States' monetary policy and the international trade regime. And I'm not just talking about Brexit. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. That is why the changes in the budget policy mix, as well as the budget expansion - we must stress that, from 2019 onwards, there is no more restrictive policy, all of which is extended - which is reflected in the medium term must be carefully and securely applied so that the market return is permanent, safe and sustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u471	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, eighteen students and students and two educational attendants from the Elementary School of Neoloroudas Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] My colleague, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u472	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I think I should begin my speech with a reference to the negotiation of the Prime Minister. I would like to ask you, why did you choose a method of resolving and approaching a national issue of secret diplomacy? Why have you done so on an issue which, by its very nature, could be receptive to consensus, consensus and national identity? Why did you do that? Why did the Prime Minister choose this way? Excuse me, but I will tell you that the second question, which one must put to you directly, is this: by what authority did you do so? Because the country's dominance is the presiding parliamentary democracy. The Prime Minister shall act, if he expresses and enjoys Parliament's confidence. As you know, all powers stem from the people, the people are expressed through Parliament and Parliament is giving their confidence to the government or does not grant it. In this case, your government partner directly yesterday, the day before yesterday, was against what the Prime Minister is doing, who no longer supports, unless we consider that we are in a government home. And you know, all this would sound encyclopedic and views of the New Democracy, but I'll be sorry. There's a precedent. And the precedent is yours. In 2015, when Mr Varoufakis passed after the referendum from the Ministry of Finance and the Prime Minister then felt that he did not enjoy Parliament's confidence, he came here to Parliament - remember that? - and was formally adopted and not a substantive law, with what content, ladies and gentlemen? The Greek Parliament, then, empowers the Prime Minister, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of State, what should they do, ladies and gentlemen? To negotiate. Not having Mr Tsipras' certainty, the support of the parliamentary majority, he then felt the need to come to Parliament and ask Parliament to be given to him by formal law - not by substantial law, because he has no legal provision - the possibility of negotiating. Please explain to me what Mr Tsipras did then not allow Mr Tsipras to negotiate an economic issue and now with a stated, straight, well-founded and fascinated opposition from the government partner, but does the Prime Minister feel that it can go ahead? What changed in his understanding of things and democracy? Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to say a single word about an agreement which we do not know. I won't even say kich.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u473	He just came.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u474	He just came in, good. It is a sensitive national issue. I understand that, but there is no way to deal with this, I beg your pardon. There's no one. The Prime Minister operated and operates outside the limits of the current constitution. It is therefore not possible to do so. All of this will, of course, be analysed, but I think that is because of the minimum parliamentary order and the constitutional order, which is wider than the parliamentary order, it should be very clearly resolved. You are invited to answer from now on. I'll give it to you in the Minutes. Of course, it is FEK, but I am presenting it to you in the Minutes, because it obviously seems that even the Prime Minister of the country is ignoring his own parliamentary background. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos - George Dendias, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I now come to the piece of legislation, which we are discussing today. I have already heard the Deputy Minister, Mr Juliarakis. Mr Tsakalotos has been advertising to the committee since this morning the piece of legislation, which the majority rapporteur, too, has presented to us as an exit to the fight against agreement. In fact, too many ministers of government will allow me to tell you - if you will excuse the expression, you know that I do not easily use such words - with beddings roaming across the channels - I am not talking about you, Mr. Juliarakis - and tell us where...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u475	Who? What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u476	I'm glad you're uprising, Mr. Juliaraki. Honestly, I am glad, because this shows you have a sensitivity. No, I wasn't talking to you. Well, many ministers roam on the channels and say "Tell us where in the text of the law there are new measures. Tell us where." Of course, where's the spoon? It's not in the law text. It's in the annex and in the medium term. Of course there is also a specific provision within the position of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which says that both the medium-term and the annexes are a rule of law. Therefore, you are legislating new measures. However, any minister who turns around the channels and says that he feels like he said something clever, that he fooled his interlocutor, that he deceived the Greek people, that "bravo, we did it today." This is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. That's not how it works. You must have a sincere relationship with society and tell the truth. Good? Good. Pull? Pull. At the end of the day, we are approaching the time of the account. We'll deal with our boss, who's the Greek people. Each of us is going to tell him what he did, how the people, the final judge of all of us, will decide. But not with such tricks now. These aren't serious. Anyway, we should go to the bill now. It's unified. Question: Does this single text reduce pensions? Because Mr. Juliarakis told us earlier about new measures. He meant new measures beyond the midterm, of course. That's different. He didn't do what I denounced earlier. But he said: ‘ Are there any new measures beyond the medium? No. No.' But what we have here, what you are calling on to vote, reduce pensions or not, ladies and gentlemen? It's reducing them. Does it reduce duty? Yes or no? You remember the taxfree, for which the Minister of Finance would have resigned if he fell down to 9,000 etc.Huh? It's reducing duty again, yes or no? Is it increasing the HPAI, ladies and gentlemen, to some of the Greeks? Yes or no? Yeah, he's increasing. And I have to tell you something. I want to be honest. You didn't legislate him. But, if you would like me, your view of the abolition of HISPIA was a good view. HISH is an unjust law, and it's also a bad law. Can I explain why? Because the ENVY introduces in its calculation a third value. In other words, there is, first, the objective value, there is the market value and it comes through mathematical calculations and introduces a third value, the value of HISPIA. And as this piece of legislation is formulated, you know what's going on? I followed the Deputy Minister for Finance, Mrs Papanatsiou. A fourth value is also introduced. Because in other values the ENPI will be valid with the non-changeable objective, which will be for time, and others with the ENPI with the objective values that have changed since this year. I mean, we have four real estate bases. Excuse me, honestly, is there a world country facing such schizophrenic phenomena within its jurisprudence, and these are considered to be the phenomena of modernisation and exit from the crisis? Does it provide for or does it not provide for the medium-term beast surpluses? 2022 is 5.12%, in fact, with causality. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be aware of this. I was speaking before with our rapporteur Mr Staikoura, who made an excellent suggestion this morning. The surpluses cannot be a product of pride. Mr President, the surpluses cannot be your product of caustics. In fact, it is the surpluses that strangle the potential for growth. They're not going together. They're going against. If you plan and seek to achieve great surpluses, at the same time strangle growth, efforts to combat unemployment, increase productivity and all that. Tell me honestly how can we have any optimism when we see a text that provides for a surplus of 5.12% in 2022? But neither is China with the state-run economy, in this particular way of calculating it, I think, in 2022 will expect that it will have 5.12%. And yet, you decide that the Greek economy, which needs to go forward, will have a surplus of 5.12%. Imagine what's going to happen to development. Other questions, why is this supposed to be friendly to the weak? Is the legislation reducing or not reducing the protection of obligated households by this legislation? Because I didn't hear that say. Please look at Article 63(3). Is the court's ability to exclude the principal residence from divestment of property based on commercial value rather than on objective value if it is in the interests of divestment? Is that or is that not a reduction in protection, ladies and gentlemen? So you are presenting it as a positive piece of legislation, when 15 different sides are negative. It's a piece of legislation. And by the way, I have heard Mr Javarra's explanations of Article 69 as well. I did not understand what Mr Stathakis said because the government feels the need to add that the public limited liability companies are financial institutions. What's the legal need for this? Mr Javarras, of course, accused the government of acts that are not legal, to say so elegantly. And of course, he didn't blame the ministers. But he clearly told them that people are being fed into your environment with suspicions. Mr Stathakis answered him, but he did not explain what it is that forced the government to say that the anonymous claim management companies are financial institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, one must not go far, because there are too many people who want to be placed. One thing, however, is the real fact: This piece of legislation is not a piece of legislation that exits the crisis. We have now the models for exiting the crisis. We have them in the case of Portugal and Ireland. This is not what this is all about. The country goes to a fourth memorandum. He has nothing to get from this fourth memorial. He has pledged - he has guaranteed, to be precise in the expressions - 25 billion euros of the property of the Greek people for the execution of terms. All this has been analysed. He will be under increased supervision. And that's what we're going through to unclaimed. It will be a country that will be under a Memorandum of Understanding, without any provision. In other words, we will have the obligations of the Memorandum without the elementary, in any event, access to funds which the lenders have given us. This is the only achievement of today's legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u477	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u478	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this bill we are debating now and which we have to vote on by 14 months, to get the dose, shows that Greece's confidence in Brussels is debatable. When you see them limit you to having to do all the prerequisites, what does that mean? That all the time was leaking fruit. Why don't you tell me that what they're asking for now shouldn't have been done for years. What was he blocking? It prevented the fact that there was the fear of political costs, the lack of courage and because you had lied to the people all and of all the parties, you could not tell the Greek people the truth. That's it. When you tell you that on the 14th of the month the FEK has also come out, it means that the country's faith in Europe is zero. No matter how much you move your head, sir, I don't care. I won't have a dialogue with you, because some of you have learned and come to the front line, others to yell at others to make gestures. It's not your honor. Have we ever made gestures when you were talking? I don't think so. Therefore, and only the way of discussing, the dates and spirit here that we must all have done so by the 14th of the month show the complete lack of confidence in Europe for Greece. We have, of course, given rights, because we promised certain things that we did not respect. We didn't do reform. We've confused the tax reforms. Today the Greek people, if you go and ask him, "What is reform?" will tell you the cut in pensions. That's what the Greek people will tell you, that's what they understand, because you scared him. While reforms are the weapon so that it doesn't become a pension cut again. Reforms were the arsenal of the economy, so that anti-social measures would not be needed. You, all the wings in here, the way you have acted, identified reforms with anti-grassroots measures and fears the people of the anti-grassroots measures. There is also the JRC here, which permanently curses Europe. 'Europe is to blame for everything. Europe is doing one. It's Europe that's come to take our oil. Europe has come to sell us all out." It is the permanent follow-up to the JRC's views. The people are listening to them, they are also listening to the others, they are seeing the cuts in wages and pensions and the introduction of new taxes and they are saying to you: 'Oh, this Europe has come to eat us'. But if this Europe is here to eat us, why do we extend our hand to take the doses? I don't get it. This contrasts. What is this House trying to do for eight years and spreading our hands, since they are bad Europeans, they want to drink our blood? Anyway, you're saying we're on August 20th from the memos. What memorials do we come out of? If anyone thinks about the surpluses for how many years it takes, considering that by 2060 we have to have a 2.4% surplus by 2022, 3.5% and for ninety years overcrowded, what does that mean? It means we never go out. And it is right that a German official said a month ago: "From the memorials you are dating, gentlemen, when you get paid off." Did you hear what the German said? "From the memorials your country comes out, when you are cleared, not August." [[Protest from SYRIZA ward]] I'm not talking to you, sir. I can't stand some people. If you're unable to be here, there's the exit. This room has made fun of the micromolecules. He wanted to do PSI Venizelos, he did it the PSI. Mr. Venizelos isn't here. He was amazed at Mr. Chakaloto. I didn't understand each other either. I was in my office watching. Neither did I understand Venizelos saying he was a saint in 2012 and he has made it all saint or, of course, Tsakalotus, who doesn't know well Greek and only by gestures he believes we'll understand him. It's not enough gestures to understand a rhetoric. He has to say something. Of the micro-enterprises we have had two billion. That's what happened. Those who had the money in Eurobank, Alpha, at the National Party rescued them. Those who had them in the titles of the Greek state lost them. This is the country's faith. But we didn't lose the country's faith just outside. We lost her inside, too. People are asking for a meeting with Ministers, they see parties and sides, they find neither parties nor MPs. Everybody's making fun of them. Television shows some business models and they say that Greeks who had gone abroad and worked - he says - 15 people in this business. The "ANTENNA" and "ALPHA" channels present some who take investment initiatives. They work 15, they work twenty. Is that how we grow? So, six hundred thousand left, and now ten or ten people are showing on TV that they are coming back and creating growth? In these ways will our young people return? Did anything else happen that I'm afraid of? Are they leaving? I see cemetery culture here in terms of economy. I see a culture of non-exhaustive development. There isn't! Or at a cemetery you go or in the cities of Greece that exist in industrial areas, it's about the same. There's no difference. For twenty years the Komotini Industrial Zone had eighty factories. Now damn it, if it's five, and these five are tenants, they're business, storerooms. They're not productive units. Some time ago in some BSE organisation - I think it was Caravel - Mr Drasakis spoke. Because he's here, I remembered, with all my appreciation, because I think he's mild tone Mr. Drasakis. Mr. Drasakis said that Greece never had a productive model, a model of productivity - I was ahead and I heard it - and now with SYRIZA he goes to acquire. Mr. Drasakis, if I'm not mistaken, you, the Zolota government, the Gennimatas and the Souflias, have taken over the administration of the country's economy. You're not new. I entered the House in 2015. But you will be a few hundred years of parliamentarians. Maybe thirty-five. I've wronged you! Then when you had Zolota's absolute license, a super-Honoured Prime Minister, why didn't you set up a productive model? You came after forty years to blame for not becoming a productive model. Who was supposed to? Is it me that I was out of Parliament or you who took over the administration of the country? If you come and complain that nothing happened, then the people to whom should the cemetery charge today? In the media you have established a system: One of SYRIZA and one of New Democracy. You're going to set up a two-party. It won't do you any good, because the Greek people have lost their lives since the bicommunism. The Left has always fought against bipartiteism. Now he's struggling to save himself as one of the two poles of bicommunism. The Left entered the system, so he lost this certificate of purity and honesty. Now you've been accused by prosecutors, gentlemen of the Left. You must not forget that. While you were a small party, you could blame PASOK, New Democracy for setting up a power game, derby politically on the channels, panels as they wanted and leading voters to the polls as sheep. Now you are trying to drive the voters the way you were accused until yesterday. Yesterday, in the presence of the President of the Republic, a meeting of the ninety years of the Hellenic Banks Association took place in Zappeion. It was Reggling and other official. In the presence of these one speaker said - not to say who - that trying to help growth in the 1990s, banks also made mistakes. Are the sea-loving mistakes? And they were the same there, in the various banks, they were the same as in the 1990s as in loans. Was that wrong? No one spoke. They turned their guilt into mistakes. Mr. Drasakis was also there. He was also a speaker. They also showed whole videos of their course. Ninety years of march. Who did the banks help? Who did the banks work for? Who did they help? Did they help small and medium-sized entrepreneurs or selective ones? How did it happen? Yet, no one was mentioned at all. You have the islands. The islands from the first of the next month acquire increased VAT. They are the same islands that have refugees, who have armies of refugees, who lose the tourist season. They came here, they went, they said, and they saw Mitsotakis, they saw Ministers, they saw me, and they asked if anything would happen with VAT on the islands or they'd let them die. For example, in Samos, will we let them die alone and helpless? Are we going to do something to keep the VAT on the islands down? Because we don't have another motive. Refugees arrive by crowds. Tourism has already started, it has fallen below 80%, so there is no tourism on the islands. If we increase them and the VAT, what happens? That's what everyone sees everywhere, where you're SYRIZA's representatives, you're looking at the economy alive. You're looking at a hunch. In fact, you say something else when you go out on TVs: there will be a renegotiation and pensions will not be cut at 31-12-2018. The new Republic is also coming in and says so: there will be no reductions in pensions, because we are going to renegotiate. Renegotiate what? You must know, perfect and complete: Europe, gentlemen, will demand that we honour our obligations, that we complete the reforms. If you believe that with padding and mocking you can cheat or Greece or Europe, you are mistaken. From now on, a government that will be serious will remain. A government showing evidence that it wants to deceive either foreigners or Greece will not be long-term and will leave badly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u479	Mr President, if you can finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u480	Yes, Mr President, in a minute. This morning, Mr Zachariadis, a representative of SYRIZA, came out on a channel and when they asked him about the Macedonian referendum, he said it's not one of the issues you answer with a 'yes' or 'no'. What's that? So the people shouldn't say their opinion, should they? Or do you discount the people's 'no' and you want to barely pass 'yes'? The pressure on the Americans is suffocating, and I understand it. But I knew that right is the party of subjection to the Americans. I didn't know left-wing Prime Ministers were sitting in front of the Americans. I didn't know that, and the whole country's learning it now. And Mr. Tsipras tells me that he does not feel guilty about "Macedonia" - here's what he said on the phone - because the Right gave it in 2008. And on all the channels where you are, you pass this view: "The Right gave it in 2008". And you look like the robbers when they're arrested in the supermarket, which puts each other's responsibility behind you. So, here, what's this room? This Chamber shares the responsibility of who is the fault of giving Macedonia or trying to save it? What's the mission of the Hall? You guys in SYRIZA charge to your right-wing and your right-wings, or should we try to shut her down? What's Parliament's mission?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u481	Mr President, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u482	The foreigners also held a meeting of leaders and a referendum will be held. We're neither one nor the other. In a nice phrase 'they are not matters of yes or no...'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u483	Mr President, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u484	They are not the topics of 'yes' or 'no'. So what is it? What's that? What scares you from addressing the people? And finally, the power of a politician is to convince the people that he is benefiting him. As great as you are, please address society and convince it that you benefit from it and referendum if you have courage. Don't hide! It's not a sex policy. In politics you must have the manhood to go down the sidewalk and to society and convince, not to hide and go to the panels with highway journalists, headed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u485	Mr President, you are finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u486	Mr President, I should like to say something last time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u487	You know, there are ninety other colleagues to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u488	One of SYRIZA told my MP Mario Georgiadis that we look like Golden Dawn and that we take extreme positions. Mr Georgiadis answered him, as a young man who is, 'You look like Golden Dawn'. He came out and deserved me to apologize. I have the courage. In my life I was a man of courage. I apologise, because these phrases should not be said either by SYRIZA or by us in the Greek Parliament. But are you going to find the courage, gentlemen, to apologise for saying that you're tearing up memos? For these anti-grass measures you're taking, will you find the courage to apologize? From the people of Macedonia, for what you're going to do, will you apologize? Are we the only ones going to have the courage to apologize? Are you the enthusiasts who are all yours?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u489	Yes, sir. My colleague Mr Nikolaos Srmalenes has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u490	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, after the delicacy, I would say, Mr Leventis's President, I will just say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u491	You should be ashamed of yourself! You are not allowed to speak to a president like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u492	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u493	All right, Mr. President. Everyone has the right to describe things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u494	Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u495	That's not abusive.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u496	Avoid characterizations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u497	Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u498	Political delirium.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u499	After all, you have your speech ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u500	Mr. Wireless. Go on, but I would ask you a little more carefully, because the President is rightly complaining.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u501	Where to keep an eye on the gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u502	I think yesterday's day is a historic day...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u503	I said I was sorry. Are you going to ask?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u504	Mr President, let me speak. I think yesterday's day is a historic day for our country. Alexis Tsipras and this left-wing government dared, and after twenty-five years it managed to reach an agreement in principle, which will follow the steps that you will all read and discuss on Friday and under the aegis that these steps will be taken in the autumn, it will also be ratified by the Greek Parliament. I want to say that it really is a historic day for the country, for the Balkans, for stability and peace in the region and puts every form of nationalism into naphthalene in history. I want to say one last word. We now read that the President of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Mr Ivanov, will not ratify and will not support this agreement. I wonder if we gave it all up and they gave it all away, after all, can't you just wonder that it was a great victory for the Greek people? As time passes, I would like to say that, in today's vote on the Multifibre Arrangement, we are completing the prerequisites for evaluations and memorandums, which have been brought to us by the governments of PASOK and New Democracy. It is truly remarkable that representatives of these parties with a great deal of enthusiasm are accusing us today of voting on the fourth memorandum. Since three years since the September 2015 elections, they are destroying and have not fallen into either one of their predictions - nor that the first assessment would close, nor that the third evaluation would close, nor that the third evaluation would close, that we would catch the surpluses, that wage cuts and pensions would be applied, that there would be nothing with the debt, that there would be lasting recession and no growth, that we would not take the instalments, that we are the last in the NSRP's uptakes, that unemployment is not falling, that we need a credit line of support, that there are no investments and other disasters, not even the number - so that today pensioners are coming to advance to the Greek people that there is no exit from the memoranda and that we have been committed for many years to the country in the mortar and that pensioners will be subjected to co-fundal reductions. Who do you call it? You who reduced pensions from 2010 to 2014 eleven times to 45 billion. You also say that we hide the updated memorandum presented by the Commission. On the one hand, you are resorting to the past, exposing the 2014 situation, in which you had achieved growth of only 0.4% and a 0.2% surplus compared to the 1.5% agreed and told you to take measures then 2.2 billion, and that is why the fifth assessment was not closed, you hide that you had drugged the country and that the funds available in the public funds ended in February 2015... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will ask for a little tolerance, because I have also consumed time in the initial controversy with the President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u505	Hey, a little Skopje! Not everything fits in five minutes. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u506	On the one hand, you are resorting to the past and on the other, you are resorting to the future, using the measures that we have voted on in the context of the second assessment of the IMF, which repeatedly makes wrong predictions, and on the other hand, you are saying that we are voting again today on what we have voted on in the second assessment. It's irrational! On the substance, you say nothing about today's multi-project. I say: What about the tax provisions that most people are positive, which reduce taxes on daily workers, which facilitate young entrepreneurs, who give tax incentives for both inheritances and donations, and strengthen new jobs, which give tax incentives to audiovisual productions? What about health issues, which regulate the equation of the insurance price with the sale price, exempting citizens from participation even 10%? What can you say about the further attempting to combat smuggling and tobacco, which is introduced by the obligation of tobacco companies to pay compensation to the Greek State in any case where genuinely industrialised tobacco has been seized over fifty thousand pieces? What do you say...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u507	Mr. Comrade, finish in twenty seconds. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u508	So basically you say nothing about these measures. You are not saying anything about the financial area, which, as the Deputy Minister for Finance explained, will reach 2022 to 3.5 billion. You are doomed to follow the political initiatives of this government, because you are sad, and you are fighting backsmiths, both internal and national, which we, despite the enormous difficulties, are opening roads and guaranteeing benefits for the great majority of the Greek people and the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u509	Thank you very much. Mr Demetrios Stamatis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u510	Ladies and gentlemen, it was thanks to the Prime Minister yesterday that he announced reaching an agreement with the government of Skopje. Except that this agreement, paradoxically, arrived at the parties about an hour ago and in the meantime, and I read to you an announcement from the representative of the Skopje government saying: "It is this non paper given by the Greek Government, of the 16 pages, is an interpretation and does not correspond to the content of the Greek-Skopje agreement." That's what Skopje spokesman said. What's going on here? In other words, for twenty-four hours the political world and the Greek people were involved in discussing and deciding an agreement on the basis of a six-page text characterized by Skopje as insinuating. That's not right. Give an explanation of this. I'm on my way, because time is pushing. The agreement that has been reached is extremely bad and I will explain briefly why. It is not because I have been in this position since 1993. There's a solid basis for this position. The features of your deal are two. The first is that this agreement has nothing to do with the agreement you say on the 2008 national line, because that agreement was cash. This agreement is cash on our part, cash on our part and waiting for us to collect in the future. The second element is that it has not been understood that the name, even as synthetic, "Macedonia" is the transport vehicle of aluterism, but the basis of Skopje's albuminism is ethnicism. Do you want to understand that? I'll give you an example to see if the erga omnes works. It doesn't work erga omnes. What's the name of the Skopje resident? Macedon. They say it and claim it and the government has accepted it. We Macedonians, how do we call ourselves? South-Macedonians? Are these serious things? But in addition to that, ethnicism is the basis of alutism and this is the first time that it has not been manifested by the vindication of our history. He was designated as ‘Bulgaros’. That is why we reacted strongly when Mr Tsipras brought the agreement for the Republic of Iliden, which Mr Zaev has revealed and is not disproved by the government, he had accepted it, which is why he brought it to our country. I don't have any more time to tell you about this, but I'm just telling you that when you're trying to shut down a violent thing, because you want to close it, because obviously you might want to...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u511	Violently?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u512	Violently, I mean quickly, without taking into account things, without having to talk to the rest of the parties, in the context of secret diplomacy. These results will be found in the front and you will not find them in front of them, Greece will find them in front of it. I'm going to the main bill now. But now I have to respond to an issue raised by Mr Chakalotos. Mr Tsakalotos, but you and all of you have been quite wondering what the position of the New Democracy and the Anti-Population for the primary surpluses is until 2060. What are you going to do between now and 2060? You're asking us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You remind me of a proverb, a saying of people who spend a lot of time in the country and when they talk about the months they say "Marts, May" and April are screwing him. Do you know why? Because April often holds bad hours, rain, winds and doesn't interest them talking to him. Your April's, do you know who he is? It is the period of your administration under the constellation of Mr. Tsipras's Asset, Mr. Varoufakis. But that was a cost. When we debate today what measures we will take is why this period created debts and obligations in the country. Mr. Reggling shows up and says that at the time 100 billion has been damaged, and Vizer's talking about 200 billion-dollar damage. By the way, Vizer adds positive and depositary damage, to say it roughly, that's why 200 billion goes out. I live at 100 billion. These 100 billion are burdens on the Greek economy and the Greek people. So you're asking us to say how we're going to fix the situation that you've caused with the damage of 100 billion. That's what you're asking. For people to know that what they are pulling, the measures that we are talking about today and which will last until 2060 are because you, with what you have done to them, put a debt of EUR 100 billion. And you must apologize and not ask us what we are going to do. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing up with the U.S.O. thing. Why am I saying that? I'm saying this because Mr. Chakalotos falsely mentions something here. He says, "But, in 2015, you voted for the superstition." We did not vote in 2015 on the powers and powers. These were voted in 2016 and we did not vote on them. And not only did we not vote on them, but from this step I denounced that the creation and responsibilities of this surplus fund, as they stand, are one of the reasons why foreign lenders pulled the carpet from the Samara government, because we had refused to give it. And you come and give it up. And not only do you give it, wonder strangely and you say, but that's possible, this isn't a mortgage. I then said that it was a potential formation of bankruptcy and a woe if things went wrong for the country. We had refused that, and we had prevented it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u513	Mr. Colleague, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u514	But now that we say that 25 billion from national property is being guaranteed for Greece's debts, what does that mean? If they're not paid, who pays the 25 billion? He's automatically a chauffeur through this fund. It is a fund, however, which neither the government nor the parliament can control. That's what you've achieved, and you should apologize. So don't ask us such questions. The situation facing the country today is the situation that you have created. You created the third Memorandum. You say we come out of the memos. What memorials do we come out of?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u515	Mr. Stopatis, finish it up. We're at nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u516	One more minute, Mr President. What memorials do we come out of, Ministers? From the third Memorandum we are dating, and here we both agree. We say that there is a fourth Memorandum. The third is where we both agree. There's a fourth one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u517	Mr. Colleague, we can't go any further. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u518	I remind you of what the Prime Minister said when it came to pre-empting the measures. He said this is unconstitutional, it's illegal. He said he'd never sign the prerogative of pension and tax-free measures. And he will never sign it because at the same time it affects the honesty of the Greek people. In about twenty-five days, Mr. Tsipras, as he does, signed what affected the honor of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u519	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I would like to announce to the House that the Ministers for Education, Research and Religion, Foreign, Economic, Culture and Sport and the Deputy Ministers of Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Foreign Affairs tabled today, 13-6-2018, draft law: "Definition of the Convention between the Federal Ministry of Family, Third Age, Women and Youth of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs of the Hellenic Republic on cooperation in the field of youth and preparation for the establishment of a Greek-German Youth Foundation. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. My colleague, Mr Mavrosh, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u520	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We have the bill with the latest prerequisites to close the fourth assessment. We have also the medium-term 2019-2022 which is the X-ray about where things are going. And I'll start in the medium term. I do not know if you have noticed this, but on the basis of the medium-term in 2021, which is a flag year that is two hundred years from 1821, we will once again be over 200 billion GDP. Two hundred years, two hundred billion GDP. It was, of course, before that in 2006, and then we had caught the 200 billion GDP, but a lot has been going on since then. I think the government's going well, but it's going well in the wrong numbers. It's going well to the numbers of the surplus, it's not going well in the numbers of growth. And I don't mean the predictions, but what we achieve. Because all adjustments to the forecast growth rate in recent years have always been downwards. And for 2018 it is no exception, from the 2.5% that we voted in November, now the forecasts are talking about about 2%. On the contrary, for the surpluses the forecasts are always outweighed. In other words, we have an over-performance of surpluses and a under-performance to growth. However, the great surpluses, which are usually sought, remove resources from the real economy, because very simple resources that could go to investment, production, marketable goods, jobs, extroversion, go to serve a political account. Imagine, then, an athlete who is practicing to run in games and badly appreciated by the coach is doing so hard workout that the fat and carbohydrate stores are empty and are now burning muscles to produce energy. But if you consume muscle mass for energy, then these muscles are missing from performance. That's what happens with the excesses, and we burn the muscles of the economy. Listen to the figures: In the four-year medium-term 2019-2022 the GDP growth will be 11.7% at nominal prices. So from about 189 billion, we'll go to 212 billion. The corresponding increase in direct taxes will be 16.4%. And especially for natural persons, it will be 28.4% in this four-year period. Well, 11.7% GDP growth, 16.4% tax increase and 28.4% tax increase for natural persons. This is how surpluses are created. And cumulatively, the primary surplus for the period 2019-2022 will be 36 billion more than the corresponding GDP growth that will be 22 billion, that is, we eat from our flesh. However, surpluses and surpluses are resources missing from growth. Even in the business as a user scenario of "Table C" that exists in the medium term starting from 3.56% and going to 5.19% the surplus. Theoretically, as Mr Tsakalotos explained earlier, but also Mr Juliarakis, also recorded. And because the ministers spoke about the surpluses that will create a financial space for policy, that is to say, the difference with 3.5%, which is the aim of the above, which is about 7.8 billion, the first space to be created is the gap in taxpayers' pockets. ........................................ And you say you will use this not to make a political dividend, to give dividends. But when we talk about 2021 and 2022, I'm afraid you won't be told how to use this because you're just, I guess, not going to be government. Since the last analysis of April 2018 of the Peterson Institute for Debt, it emerges, on the one hand, that high surpluses are deadlocked because they cannot be sustainable in a long time, there is no such historical precedent, and on the other hand, not only the numerator but also the denominator, that is, GDP. By increasing GDP, in other words by investing in market-based outward-looking sectors, we are reducing the debt ratio to GDP. And when we talk about growth, investment, etc., studies have been available for years, Macinsey, IOBE, DianeOsis, for our various comparative advantages we must invest. Studies are not missing. The will and ability is lacking by your Government to get the machine ahead, as the ideals and established interests with which you quickly reconciled. And you can't talk about leaving the memorandum - and even clean exit - just to support your account, so clean that it becomes slithery. Let us talk better about a sustainable exit from the memorandum so that we do not retreat any more so once the cushion of about 20 billion actually built is finished. For another reason, the interest rates of 1.5% that we have now and another 4.5% that we now have in the ten years. We'll find high interest rates if we go to the market. No, well, communication stunts, but prudent steps. About the pension scheme, which is a large part of the bill to say a few words, because the bill has pension cuts and has become a great spice around it. 'No, it's not what you think' says'retired people', they say. We must, however, look at pensioners in the eyes and tell them the truth, that with this insurance system, which is redistributive and not rewarding, when we have 1,3 workers with EUR 700 wages for each pensioner, on average, the system is not viable. And the pensions will be cut. And the way we go, my generation probably will never retire despite the great contributions he pays. So look at them in the eyes of retired and the whole society and tell the truth that without investment we will not have production, without production we will not have jobs and without jobs we will not have pensions. Put on them and the demographic, put Brain Drain to see how things get even worse. So what headlines are there for pension scissors every day, as much careers as they are built on the backs of retired people in remote windows and mornings that cry for the cuts, creating the myth of the pension tree, a tree that you will water and blossom pensions for all, I am likewise resting on these emissions you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, before 2015 that you have had the magic recipe. However, by closing the fourth assessment for the third memorandum, I think that the citizens also owe a gratitude to SYRIZA for having made them wiser, dismantled the illusions, as we say in mathematics, "needed to define in which the variables of the problem get priced, without fantastic, infinite and vague prices". But the damage he did, dragging people into populism, now turning boomerang. Because populism is barren, and at a time when it doesn't get full, it eats the hand that feeds him until the next one comes in that will feed him again and get to him from the beginning. Let me close the speech in a few words on the sceptic, the Macedonian, which is currently on account of the forthcoming agreement. First of all, this debate cannot be held in terms of traitors and patriots, auctions and tenderness. Neither are those who react to the agreement far right nor those who agree are traitors and ethnic leaders. We should all agree on this and make a contribution. Objections must be heard and not analogous. We expect to see the exact text of the agreement, which, about an hour ago, began to be distributed to the parties, so that we can finalise our opinion. The agreement, as described yesterday, opens, in my opinion, a positive perspective that we need to look carefully at, a prospect that can take us out of the stall where we are sinking for twenty-five years, having our heads in the sand. In other words, we may overturn a felony, this recognition by a hundred forty neighbour countries as the 'Macedonia'. The agreement is based on the basic terms of the national line, i.e. a complex name with a geographical designation, erga omnes, for all uses, and a revision of the constitution, so that the algorithms can be removed. Nationality and language are described as "Macedonian", with some definitions to separate them from Greek history, and this is the point that it raises most objections. They remain to be discussed and solved important issues, such as, for example, abbreviations, and very important are trademarks, which have an economic impact on the life of northern Greece. The truth is that this agreement was not written on white paper, that is, it was not written at the outset. There were data twenty-five years old. If we consider this agreement to be an opportunity to resolve and leave the existing situation, then we can see it positively. If we consider it based on the maximism of our demands and expectations, then it is negative. But negotiation means compromise. And compromise doesn't mean you always succeed. Only in an unconditional opponent defeat are all your terms accepted. That's not our case, and it shouldn't be. Nor, therefore, for horns and for celebrating, is the agreement, but in my opinion, nor should we reject it, waiting for a better future. The Greek interest, in my opinion, proposes a solution to the issue, proposes the European perspective of the neighbouring country so as to remove the possibility of destabilising it and the existence of a protectorate, whether Turkish or Russian or Albanian - Bulgarian or Muslim or whatever at our northern border. Unfortunately, however, decisions on national issues also seem to be entering micro-particular tactics and from both sides. However, with party calculations, we cannot solve national issues and should not put an accelerating SYRIZA mandate into the balance for a few months, on the one hand, and on the other, an issue that does not concern the next few months, but the next generations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need another minute, Mr. President. Also, what Mr Kammenos will do to me personally is indifferent. Alas, if such important issues, such as national issues, were left on it! Alas, if we are determined, and if we wait to see what the ANELs will do to determine our position. This is a problem of SYRIZA and ANEL, of the ANELs that the "patriotism" reaches them to the point where it is friendly but does not throw the government away. In conclusion, there has been a negotiation. The government has done so far, has it achieved some things, not all of which is that we will have a better agreement in future if we reject it? Do we have the luxury of waiting another ten years to change situations in the area? The main question, however, is whether we will decide on the basis of anger or logic, on the basis of national interests or national passions, where passions, when they become acidified, make corners and the original 'p' is turned into 'l', and then we are talking about national mistakes. We have experienced this many times in the past, national passions being made national mistakes. And if that were the case in the past, because there are no cool voices but only ruthless screams, we have to avoid it for the future. So let us think about the issue of looking into the future and not in the past. What Greece do we dream of for our children for the next twenty years? A European country that is a protagonist in the region that will have won with the economy, its education and culture around it, or a country which is closed and fearful, which will fight with stereotypes only giving back fights, refusing to go ahead? If we respond to this dilemma, then we will also have taken a great step of national self-awareness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u521	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you how the debate is going. There are three fellow Members, Mr Cassidyris, Mr Barbarousis and Mr Kegeroglou. Then he's the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Drasakis. Then there are three other colleagues, Mr Fortsakis, Mr Kamatos and Mr Gregos, and then the Minister, Mr Contonis. I would simply like to give the floor to Mr Spirtzi to present an amendment. Minister, please, you have the floor. Insert telegraphically, though, because time is pressurized.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u522	Thank you, Mr President. It was raised by the institutions once more, but last time, the issue of minimum rental time for cars with drivers. The original proposal of the institutions included that the provision of minimum rental time for cars with a driver of three hours had to be made an hour for mainland Greece and zeroed for the island. You all understand the consequences. On the substance, it was canceling the legal framework we had in urban transport. As part of the completion of the evaluation, we have now come to the text you have been given after negotiations. The final agreement maintains the three-hour period throughout mainland Greece, Crete and Evia. For the island of Greece, also keeps the 3rd hour, with the exception of the months from May to August, where the minimum rental time will be thirty minutes. I would like to say that the forecasts in the recently adopted Law 4530/2018 can cover the distortions created by the violations of vehicle rental drivers and at the same time serve some tourist traffic needs for the four months of the summer season. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u523	Thank you, Minister. I repeat that there are three Members, Mr. Drasakis, three other Members, Mr. Kontonis, three other Members, and then Mr. Xanthos. In the turn of the three Members I shall certainly keep it, ladies and gentlemen, to know it. My colleague, Mr Cassidy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u524	In the last few hours a Greek-Skopje agreement has been advertised, for which so far we have only known little about it. For an hour now we have taken this text into our hands. We have been able to read it with absolute care. On account of my knowledge, I inform the Greek people that this is the most disgraceful, ostensible, anti-Greek text that has been tabled to the Greek Parliament. And I'm explaining. Part 1, Article 1(3): As far as Skopje is concerned, citizenship is Macedonian. The official language is Macedonian. The country codes for all purposes other than car plates are ‘MK’ or ‘MKD’, i.e. just Macedonia. The follow-up is even more disgusting. Article 6, be careful, please. With a view to strengthening friendly relations, every action by a state agency likely to undermine chauvinism and revisionism is banned. When the School of Hopes parades to Thessaloniki and the Hopes sing "Macedonia unheard of, Alexander, the country that you banned the barbarians and free you are now" will be banned and conceived by the police. This applies not only to state services and to the army, but also to private bodies, in accordance with the next article. When a political party, the Golden Dawn, takes a course and sings the immersion "Macedonian renowned", then the state will be forced to take all the measures the law provides to stop it without delay. So you'll send the MATs, not to mention the immersion, not to say that Macedonia is Greek. I'm on it. This disgrace keeps going. The cataclyst doesn't stop. Article 8(2). The statues stay. What they were saying is that the Skopje would lay the statues out is a lie. The statues of Philip, the Great Alexander, which were falsely, provokedly and undeniably, the Skopje have on the main squares of their towns. Skopje, says the second part, will review the status of the monuments and take corrective action to ensure respect for the legacy mentioned above. Alexander the Great will remain in Skopje and they will put down a small sign that will say: "It is the Hellenistic period and aims at friendship among peoples." I continue with Article 8(5). Here, this is the greatest disgrace you have ever said and this national treason is being revealed today. Because through this agreement, your government is committed to changing the school books in Greece. Article 8(5): ‘Recommendation of a Special Committee to revise any school manual in each Party, so that no school manual in use the year after the signing of the Agreement shall contain any revision reports’. And how are we going to say in our school books that Paul Melas was sacrificed to drive the comedians out of Macedonia? You want to erase the story. You want to erase the delivery. This agreement is a plentiful one. It's a disgrace. It is a text that offends Greece. The Greek people will burn it down. Our story will burn it down. The dead of the battle of Kilkis - Kilkis (Valats), the Macedonian phalanges who reached the depths of Asia, Emmanuel Pappas, who sacrificed everything for the liberation of Macedonia, all the heroes whose blood is a river and has written with gold Greek letters in the pages of history the word Macedonia, the memory of all of them and the Greek people together will send to the basket of the unusables of history this faint and betrayal agreement. From there on, with regard to the political factors that support this government, if Kammenos - let us say - was a man, then he would have thrown the government away. Quite simply, he would have lifted confidence, threw the government down and ended this national treason. If Pavlopoulou were a man, he would have resigned and would have had elections and would have finished this so-called negotiation that for us and for the absolute majority of the Greeks it is a shameful act betrayal with the sole aim of eradicating Greek history and the tradition of sacred and loyal to the preeternal enemies of Hellenism. Golden Dawn is asking for something clear. If the Golden Dawn was today government in Greece, it would do so. Because we have explained our view and position on foreign policy: no vetoing. Through Greece's veto, Skopje would not go ahead with NATO. Subsequently, the centrifugal tendencies within this state, between Slavs and Albanians - because we saw Skopje-like nationalist Slavs beat the Zhaf Minister, who was photographed yesterday for this infamous agreement - would lead to a civil war on the part of this state. On the substance, we would have broken up the Skopje and Greece could have as a guarantee force, as a force for stability in the peninsula of Aymos entering an army in Skopje, acted what was not done in October 1912, when the Greek Army finally walked to Thessaloniki and left the Greek monastery of the thousands of Greeks slaved, what was not done in the 1990s with the proposal of Milosevic to the Greek Government to share Skopje between Greece and Serbia. This will happen when the Golden Dawn, when the nationalist movement will dominate Greece. Then all these policies of self-determination and national modesty will be buried. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u525	Mr Barbarousis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u526	Thank you, Mr President. We are here for a bill highlighting the social policy of the Left and progress. But exactly what to say about this abortion. It's a hundred and twenty a articles divided into eleven sections. In a free translation, this is a slogan of unrelated provisions or even better for a tsunami of ten measures of direct applicability. These are measures which concern almost all Greeks, including, among other things, a reduction in pensions, additional reduction in duty, abolition of the CSCE, abolition of reduced VAT on the islands, speeding up electronic seizures and permanentization - perpetuation of the ENPI, but mainly primary surpluses of mammoth that mean hard fiscal policy at all levels. But the social policy of the Left once again hides all the negatives and comes to golden the pill by presenting the medium-term to the country's exit from the memorandum. In the medium term, it will bring growth. We're going out on the markets now. High primary surpluses are anticipated, rapid declining of unemployment and a budget area to reduce taxation. And all this will be achieved through the impoverishment of the living conditions of the Greek people. You know what? And this multi-brand plan is a faithful and sad follow-up to previous memorial practices, without any prospect of real development. Once again, you are confirming your destructive and unwilling policy, which aims to dismantle our national sovereignty. Of course, since yesterday, this bill was passed on second fate. Since yesterday all Greeks around the world have been dealing with Macedonian. Wherever you go, in villages, in cities, in cafes, you hear one thing: "They are traitors, they are traitors." No, gentlemen, they're not traitors. They're stateless. And a stateless man can't even be a traitor. It's kind of like Jason that they brought in here and, more rightly, like the "creative ambiguity" that Yanis said with a "n". That is, a vague thing that has no quarrel and no problem selling out and giving everything. Especially if this also provides for an increase in the bank accounts of those signatories. Because I believe that all the negotiations that have been taking place lately have been to how much the bank account of those who will put the signature will grow. It doesn't explain any other way. What kind of negotiations did we make after we agreed to give them the name, but also the right to speak the Macedonian language? Really, in their language, that Macedonian word, Philip, Aristotle, Alexander, what do they mean? I have heard a lot of crazy things lately about this particular subject, such as that the ancient Macedonians were not Greek, but they were the ones who conquered the Greeks. Soon the left intestines will tell us that they were not Greeks and the Athenians, the Spartans and the Thebes, because they used to fight together in ancient times. What the robbery gangsters did not manage in the gang war with guns will now be done by their descendants, because the gullible Greek people chose to rule him out unmarried and unwitting, because they only promised them that they would not pay ANTI and tolls. Of course ISPA will pay and tolls will pay and Macedonia will lose. Of course, now if you go out to the cafes in the villages, they'll tell you: "I didn't vote for them. Not me, the other one. Not the other, the paradox." You've all voted for them, and you're all responsible for what we're experiencing and what's happening to us. And I am sure that in the next elections, when they take place, the most suspected Greek people will decide to rule him as well. Bean’. And I'm sorry, because I don't want to offend Rowan Atkinson. I wish that I could be disproved and I wish that the Greek people would actually react. Because the truth is, where we arrived, we have nothing more to lose than chains in our hands. Or we'll all resist the sale of our country and our history together, and we'll try to get our homeland back or we'll be lost once and for all in the homelands of others. We call on the Greek people on Friday at 10 a.m. outside the House, only with Greek flags to resist the sale of our country and our history. There are no two suns in the sky. So on earth there can be no two Macedonians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u527	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u528	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill with the prerequisites, but also with the medium-term until 2022, which reveals with the language of numbers, but also what is reflected in the articles, that the record of clean exit is a message. Not only do all the commitments for Greece and the obligations for citizens remain, but they are increased because of non-financing. The government is trying to make things look good. There are wonderful words from colleagues here, with the non papers that have given them to speak and make their reasons. Primary surpluses until 2022. It was 3.5%, institutionalized. It's redeployed. It is, of course, legislated and theoretically said that it will reach 5.19% in 2022, if the whole policy is implemented, which does not say it is not implemented. Total surpluses 2016-2022 are about 58 billion, of which about 18 are overcrowded. These goals are purely monetaristic. I think you can comfortably, Mr Drasakis, after your term as Minister of Finance of Greece, be an adviser to the International Monetary Fund. They will take you as the head of this group, which uses these objectives and these methods to unite each Greek, to get even one euro in his pocket in order to satisfy these surpluses. In addition to tax increases by 2 billion, we have reductions in pensions of 2,882,000 euros, 2,88. So far we knew that it was 1% of GDP, that pension cuts and that the government should explain to us where the difference is. What have you targeted to catch the 2,88? So we're not just talking about denial of the clean exit. There's no way out, not even thorny. There is only a way out of the lenders, the partners, who are leaving the obligation to support our country. The loss of cheap funding you are trying to cover it by replacing it with internal lending. 'Wrap' the reserves of the public, of all the agencies and of the'scan', the result will be to'stoot' the deposits to the banks, to'stoot' the liquidity in the market. In this way, you are engaging in development, whatever perspective, and I believe that 1,8 will not be achieved and you are depriving the public institutions of active policies. In particular, ELGA has already started and gives only 70% as an advance on compensation, because you have already taken the reserves of 50 million over the previous period and now you have committed it the rest. You're even grabbing the cash reserves of the municipalities that come from reciprocity fees. The public pays them, but they stay without their services, because the municipalities are unable to execute when you get them these sums. We, ladies and gentlemen, have said that this model you are following does not come out and must be overturned with another policy, with a different plan, with sustainable policies for Greece. But if one country starts to invade the other in the Balkans, won't there be a huge fire that will burn everything down? It must be understood to the citizens that the closure of the eye you do on pensions does not exist, only if the Katorugalou law is abolished, unless we ensure the sustainability of the insurance system, only if we change logic and policy. Otherwise there can be no result, in relation to the search for these cuts not to be made. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And because many colleagues have spoken about cuts of 40 billion and 50 billion, I am telling you this. By 2015 - and the holistic one says it - the cuts were 6.5% of GDP in deficit periods and I stress this. It provides for holisticism that we will have another 4.5% of GDP in periods not just of surplus, but of surpluses. That's a big difference, gentlemen. The cuts were used to keep the funds on their feet and to be able to pay pensions, and now they are made to compost and create permanent employers. That's what you do, nothing else. I remembered here that you blamed the law of Andreas Loverdos, Mr.3863/10, saying that he did not guarantee pensions. Yes, he didn't expressly say that he guaranteed pensions. Now you legislate that the budget only pays pensions up to 4%. What's that? Only the basic pension of EUR 346 or EUR 384 on a case-by-case basis. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, do not mock the world anymore, do not mock your own MPs. We should also see the issue of guarantees, that is to say that it is really tragic to grant EUR 25 billion of property. Of course, you have flaunted the citizens in lies by accusing us while now you are putting all the Greeks in great size. They will either pay high taxes and unbearable contributions or lose public property. Of course, with the SYRIZA - ANEL government, both may happen at the same time, and high taxes and the loss of public property of 25 billion. After all, you've said a lot. Mr. Chakalotos, who is not in the Chamber now, said he would resign if the tax were reduced. Did he say that? Yeah. Mr. Katrugalos would resign, he says, if pensions were reduced. Did he say that? Yeah. Mr. Kammenos would resign if there were the name "Macedonia" in Skopje. The Prime Minister? He would have sent his resignation, he says, immediately if he voted for a new memorandum. You have flammed people into lies, I say it again. You don't have a reason for either gum or base. You're completely unreliable. So you cannot convince us of any of the things that are just words of air, but in practice, unfortunately, they lead to a new dead end in the country. We are voting against this bill with the prerequisites, because it really creates new suffering in the country, in the country, in the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u529	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Ioannis Drasakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u530	Mr President, it is reasonable that the debate should be overshadowed by developments in the Macedonian area, not unjustifiedly I think. It is a problem that we have been carrying unresolved for too many years. I would like to point out that what is important at the moment is, through this problem, realising that it is on what criteria we want to move forward, namely which Greece we want. How do we find that in our time we can secure our national interests? With a policy of enclosed Greece, that we're stuck in our crab? Or with a Greece that tries to play a wider role in the Balkans, with a plan, as we have said, Balkan plus development? Our ports, our roads, our infrastructures to be more widely used infrastructure. How do we want to go? By invading, as Mr. Cassidyris said, the neighbouring country? Did you hear a lot of nerve? Did you hear the echo of the Cyprus tragedy in here tonight? Intrude, he says. And these are said in the Chamber. It's not about Golden Dawn. The responsibility lies with those forces, such as the New Democracy, which give an alibi and legitimacy to these dangerous views. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The first question, then, is looking at today's world, how to go. The second question is what will happen if there is no agreement? At the moment, FYROM is not called FYROM abroad. It's called Macedonia. Any international forum we go to, any conference we go, everywhere the sign writes Macedonia. Can we overthrow this negative tradition we've inherited? We have a chance. Take advantage of it. If this opportunity is rejected, the question is what will be the prospect of, apart from the solution of the Casiari war? What will be the prospect? The prospect will be for that country to be called Macedonia. The prospect will be for some other countries, not ours, to influence both the neighbouring country and the Balkans in general. Take an example. What does the international guy say today? The international press today writes: "Macedonia decides to change its name." Another question is whether the first agreement is so bad for Greece, why is the President of the neighbouring country rejecting it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u531	Because he's a schmuck.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u532	'Cause he's a schmuck. Good. So we have muds here and here, Mr. Stamatis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So let there be a logical front, a progressive front.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u533	He's extreme.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u534	We understand the sensitivity of people, we understand that for some it is a matter that is identical, and that is why we believe that we need a sober debate. We're going to have this conversation. However, there are too many issues that I wanted to address as a result of my capacity. Of course, time doesn't allow it. I shall confine myself to some of the things I consider crucial. We come out of the memorials, but we come out of an international environment of growing uncertainty. I want that to be clear. I think the Deputy Minister, Mr. Juliarakis, said so before. They are risks and economic and geopolitical. The first time in Italy there was a political uncertainty and we immediately saw what happened with spreads, bonds, etc. So how do we shield our exit? We should be serious about that here. The government and the European institutions have had an agreement since last year. We will shield the exit, creating cash reserves, i.e. put aside some money, so that, once we get out of the memorandum, if we have a need and international markets are not in a state so that we can borrow, then we will have this stock, the fund, from which we will get money and we will not have to go back for memos again. Those who refuse this cash reserve mean that in their minds they have that if something happens we will go back to sign Memorandums. It is truly regrettable that these views are heard outside, but also within this Chamber. However, I would like to go from the point of view of a second level. Let us assume that Greece is being borrowed from the markets and we have no problem. Let's assume we're where Ireland is today. At what rate is Ireland borrowing? With 1%. Does Ireland need to have cash reserves? Ireland generates cash inventories. The OECD recommends that all countries create cash reserves. Why? Because we live in a world of uncertainties. Any country that wants to shield its independence, its sovereignty, its dignity, should therefore have a security reserve, even if it can borrow from the markets. I was surprised to hear Mr Venizelos describe as "the country's trampling" that we are creating this stock, with the help and assent of the partners. Will anyone say: Do we, if we are in the European Union, do not need that? Firstly, I have already said that Ireland is creating and Portugal has one. Why? Unfortunately, the Europe we are participating in does not yet have those collective tools to protect its countries. There is no emergency lender in Europe. So this fund, which we are creating for extraordinary armour, in our understanding, must be a permanent institution, there must be a shield for the future, for what will happen. Does that matter? Of course, it costs, but what is the other solution? The other solution is memos and memos again. I am sorry that an institution should have taken the lead in what I am saying, the Bank of Greece, did not help to understand this, insisting on a point of view that was discussed, rejected and that it did not exist at the table. Thirdly, I listen to many - I have heard before Mr Kegeroglu - in a pattern that this government is binding on the public property of the country for ninety, for 100 years, etc. What have we received in this area, ladies and gentlemen? What commitment has been made by Mr Kegeroglu's resignation and the New Democracy's resignation that were ruling? Have you forgotten? Have you forgotten? So let me remind you that in the first memorandum you were committed to privatising 50 billion. You were under an obligation by 2015 to sell so much property that 50 billion would be collected, which is certainly impossible. The Parthenon should be sold, as we said at the time! The second memorandum, what did he say? The second memorandum said to be the same, but on a horizon by 2020. We have therefore inherited from you a disastrous policy that required the universe to be sold at solvent prices at degrading prices. Have we been able to overthrow your policy? To a certain extent, we have been able to do so. We avoided divesting to collect 50 billion and instead created a fund that would make use of the property. From what is received either dividends, later partial divestment, sale, or otherwise, 50% will go to debt and 50% will go to investment. Do you have the nerve to come here, investing in oblivion, that people perhaps forgot what had happened and you say all this today? Of course, this fund was a product of compromise. We would not do so, if we were alone, but with Mr Shoeble behind us saying that "For me Greece has continued and therefore the commitments of the former concern you", we were able - and with the help of the French President and with the help of the Italian Prime Minister - to prevent what would happen. I also heard yesterday - and this shows that the Opposition may see that it has no arguments, sees that we are coming out of the memorials, sees that the time of truth arrives - the Chief of the New Democracy say some terrible things, and that it also poses threats to bank responsibilities. It says it's our fault that bank stock prices have been devalued. I see here Mr Stavoura: Say, Mr Stavoura, to Mr Mitsotakis that the bank's stock prices began to fall from May 2014 and until January 2015 had lost 65% of their value. I also heard responsibilities for looking for the banks' recapitalisations. The President of the Banking Union replied yesterday. He said yes, there were recapitalisations to cover the damage of the PSI. So, does Mr. Mitsotakis want an investigation? The first skeleton to find before him will be the loans of the parties, of his own and of PASOK. The second skeleton he'll find will be the damage of the PSI and the third skeleton will be some of his friends... [[Noise in the Chamber]] I conclude with the lecture we have heard from Mr Teddy and others about how bad the surpluses are. What surpluses were you committed to? Mr. Kegeroglu, what was your surpluses? You had undertaken with the first Memorandum of Understanding 5% of primary surpluses and with the second Memorandum of Understanding 45%, with a view to falling to 4% in 2020 and being 4% or 3.5% from 2022 to 2030. And you come here today to talk about great surpluses? Second, what do you propose exactly? You know that the primary surpluses exist to pay the interest on the debts we received. So what exactly do you suggest? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economy and Development is ringing.]] Can I have another minute, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u535	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u536	Are you suggesting we don't pay interest? Are you suggesting a tough renegotiation of the debt? That's the one we did in 2015. She's the one we tried to get to where we got to. We proposed, then, that we propose 2.5% surpluses. At the moment, what we have is what emerged from the negotiation. If you have any suggestions, tell her. We're open. Of course the commitments are commitments, but the fact that we too would like smaller surpluses, we would like them. But there are too many things I can't develop. I would point out, however, only this: these 3.5% surpluses are caught without any new measures. Because after we've been caught in a recession, we're going to get caught with growth even easier and that's why what you call overcrowding is being created. This is not a surplus, it is the margin for an expansive policy. In other words, when the table says that in 2019 we will have a surplus of 1.2 billion, this means that in the 2019 or 2020 budget we can reduce the tax burden or increase the social burdens of 1.2 billion without leaving the target. So, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that they want more analysis. I always believe, however, that there are too many people in Greece who are interested, not in the line, not in intelligence, not in what we have heard before some, but are interested in a serious answer to the essential questions. I would therefore like to say that Greece is coming out of the memoranda in an international environment that is unstable and uncertain, so we are shielding the exit. Secondly, we are leaving the prolonged austerity we have had and going to a phase where we can have a targeted, expansionist policy. It will be targeted precisely because it needs attention and then the memoranda and targeted because every euro we give, we need to know where it goes and what it serves. Our planning is therefore, in the coming years, to have targeted tax reductions and also targeted interventions to boost health, education and the social state in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u537	Mr. Vice President, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u538	As you were disproved that the evaluation would not close, that it would not close the memorandum, so you will now be disproved by those who invest in the disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u539	Thank you very much. Mr Fortsakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u540	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u541	Tell me, Mr. Stakoura, exactly what you want. Do you want to comment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u542	No, Mr President, I need a minute to testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u543	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u544	Because I always think we have an honest dialogue, I want to raise two points in half a minute. First of all, what the President of the New Democracy said, and I think it is true - you know - is that the characteristics of the third recapitalisation are not the same as the second one. You know very well that in 2015 we had the largest annual deposit outflow since the start of the crisis. You know...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u545	In 2015?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u546	I've said from the beginning of the crisis to this day. So I've already answered. The largest outflow of deposits from the start of the crisis took place in 2015 on an annual basis. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Secondly, the stock prices collapsed. Thirdly, it changed the ownership status of the banks, so that the resources of the second assessment are permanently lost at a very low price, just EUR 5 billion. Because you said about the surpluses - and I am closing with this - I will return to the Minutes the table I tabled yesterday, Mr Drasakis. How you achieve the primary surpluses is very important. They are achieved by austerity measures and high growth. We did, in fact, anticipate high primary surpluses. What growth rate? With 3.5% and 3.2%, agreed with partners and lenders.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u547	You've been out so many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u548	There must be no dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u549	No target, you didn't fall into it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u550	Colleague, let's take care of the time. Mr. Stavura, I think you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u551	Just a minute, Mr President. I would have finished if I hadn't been interrupted. First of all, in what you said, we are not falling into, to tell you that in 2014 growth was twice as high as predictions. So let go of these. But in any case, we're going further. The development was therefore agreed at 3.5%. Now you say that we will achieve the same level of primary surplus in 2022 with 1.8% growth. You say so. In fact, since 2018, growth has been falling. So what we are claiming is that yes, we must achieve budgetary targets, but we must achieve them at high sustainable growth rates, which the current government is failing. I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u552	Mr Fortsakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u553	Mr President, may I have the floor to answer Mr Stakoura?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u554	Mr. Drasakis, as soon as possible because, if we exchange comments, we will never finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u555	Mr President, I too have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u556	But now we're gonna be okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u557	It can't be, Mr. President. Be careful how they speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u558	But it makes sense that every speech gives rise to commentary. But that's not how we're gonna finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u559	Mr Stavros asked the Vice-President something and he must answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u560	I have been asking you for the floor for two minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u561	Mr Stavros asked a number of questions to the Vice-President. Shouldn't he answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u562	We're not gonna end this way. Why aren't you helping? I'm trying to defend your right. There are eighty-eight other Members to speak. Mr. Fortsakis, if you'll excuse me, the Vice-President wants to give some answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u563	Mr. Fortsaki, I'm really sorry. First of all, I would like to plead with Mr. Stakoura. I believe that we have a serious and honest dialogue. I understand what you said. When it's time to talk about 2015, I have a lot to say. I referred to a phrase by Mr Mitsotakis, who spoke of crimes. If crimes were committed at that time, then, they were made by those who called on the world to take their testimonies from the banks. It's over. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr Stavoura, I believe you said that as a shape of speech. I wish the development objectives were agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u564	It was.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u565	Only the primary surpluses are agreed and respected. The development objectives and agreed to be unsatisfactory. It was a mistake of yours. I understand your difficulty. I'm staying in these. I don't want to give an extension. Besides, we're here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u566	Thank you, Mr Vice President. Mr. Loverdos, let Mr. Fortsakis speak because he's in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u567	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u568	Mr Fortsakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u569	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will return the focus to what we are discussing today. I will leave the skeptic, which has, of course, overshadowed the news of today, so that it is time for the debate to take place and, as is required, the temptation to take place. I would therefore like to return to what we are discussing today and to remind you that we are talking here about a bill which comes to end Greeks financially with an austerity without end by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which has again made heavy commitments, many of which were not part of the third memorandum, and of course with zero funding. We are talking about measures of EUR 5.1 billion with the reduction of pensions that we all know, with the reduction of the 35% tax on the strengthening of public property, and all of this in conjunction with the storm, the continuing increase in public debt and the huge surpluses over the coming years, ranging from 3.5% to 5.2% of GDP. I listened carefully to Mr Tsakalotos and to the alchemy he showed with his painting. But the reality is one: we will have 7.7 billion in 2019 and 8.2 billion in 2020. So we will reach the total of 16,05 billion, which will truly strangle the liquidity in the market, the little liquidity that is left, since the Tsipras Government has already set a balance with the insurance funds and other bodies of the general government and the CECO of around 22,8 billion, from around 14.9 billion at the end of 2017 and 9 billion at the end of 2014. We therefore have a situation where the figures are obvious and there is no falsification. I would like - because I have had the opportunity to develop my general thoughts on the multi-brand plan, when I spoke from this forum to the committees - to focus now on two in particular, but very important issues: The first is the one mentioned in the Single Treasury Account. And the second is what refers to the guarantees that the Greek State will provide. In order to complete its catastrophic work, the Government comes with Article 80 et seq. of the Multiplier Plan and obliges the general government bodies, as identified in their current register, to transfer and keep their cash available to the Bank of Greece. The system of the Single Treasury Account is, of course, in principle, in a positive direction, since the General Account of the State must know and be able to manage the cash reserves of all general government bodies. This was also done in the public accounting in 2014 on the days of the previous government. But then it has not been done in a compulsory way, it has not been scanning and, indeed, it has been penalised by the operators, as the multi-brand plan now provides. The transfer of the funds had been carried out in this case within a limited range and always with the consent of the operators. I note that the definition of bodies which are obliged to transfer their assets, in accordance with the new system, a register kept by the Hellenic Statistical Authority may be changed following the pressures of the respective government. The impact on commercial banks, in particular the smaller ones, has not been studied since the transfer of all the funds of the general government bodies to the single account. It is estimated that the amount to be transferred exceeds 7 billion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Severe liquidity problem should also have the bodies, municipalities, regions and universities, as they will only have the right to maintain liquidity for fifteen days. So no strong programming. Even for their inappropriate costs, a specific commitment limit can be set. Therefore, in essence, they cannot function. It is clear that the government is trying to wipe out the cash available as much as it can to support the myth of clean exit. If the operators do not comply with the obligations, the consequences are heavy. Indicatively: They are not entitled to the grant, but are at risk by the members of the board of directors. We have a tomacle broken to ensure the political excellence. The assets of the common capital are to be invested in various categories of bonds, securities of different kinds, but there is no provision for what will happen if this system fails. Entities may require compensation from the State, but remain unknown when and whether they will receive it. Despite the unprecedented austerity we are experiencing today, we see that new jobs are being created and new addresses are being created: More places are being created in DPRK, a new address at the General Accounting Office with eighteen new permanent posts, an increasing financial cost. At the same time, however, also a reduction in the responsibilities of the General Accounting Office of the State, resulting in a sliding down of its weight. The creation of new liquidity through cash buffer, the famous pillow, at the expense of taxpayers is obviously a false tactic. Much better would be looking for the over 27 billion, which could still have yielded the third memorandum. Just a minute, Mr President, to speak about state guarantees, the second issue, which I consider to be very important. First of all, I have found it extremely paradoxical, but also pleasant for me, to read in the report that the SYRIZA - ANELs give their opinion on the intervention state and its role and admit that it is necessary to limit it to its intervention role and to limit state guarantees. Well done. I wish you'd done that long ago and understood it before. There are too many issues in this chapter: The first is the grey line separating potential beneficiaries for the provision of a state guarantee and not a state guarantee. There is great ambiguity in individual categories. For example, guarantees in favour of natural persons whose standard of living is very low or who meet social needs. What does that mean? There is no definition and there is a large flush. The provision of a guarantee in favour of undertakings engaged in an economic activity or active in a certain industry may be liable to distort competition. Is there any reason to provide a state guarantee in favour of private enterprises affected by natural disasters or other exceptional occurrences, rather than to enable these undertakings to ensure that they are themselves insured as long as it is time?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u570	Mr. Fortsakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u571	I shall conclude, Mr President, in ten seconds. Why is a State guarantee granted to firms in difficulty in the form of rescue or restructuring aid, when there is a right to grant PPC, the ILO or have been in bankruptcy? You do not define which are the state-owned operators.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u572	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade. We're in eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u573	I shall conclude, Mr President, immediately. I note, Mr President, that there have also been speakers who have used about 120% of their time, and that is where I did not see the Bureau having any rigour. So I would ask that equality be to everyone, not to be selective, because Members must at some point also be able to speak unless we want this Chamber to be a comedy step, where we will hear the monologues of the various ministers and the government, and we will not be able to speak. If you want, I don't talk at all, I mean. However, it must also be heard by the public that the Greek Parliament has become a comedy, that a Member cannot speak and say five things about a bill, which covers thousands of pages. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I shall, however, finish, Mr President, so that I do not embarrass you in the next twenty seconds. It is also paradoxical to see that the Minister will be headed by a body whose assent and decision is taken, and where the Minister himself is in charge. I conclude by saying that the issue of the exemption of the Greek State from the deletion of certified debts is delicate and needs to be further studied in order to exclude any claim against the Greek State. 1.5% of primary expenditure which has been set as a limit is positive, because the threshold has been higher in the past, but there is no penalty for it being exceeded. Serious commitments, anti-grassroots measures, excessive and unnecessary primary surpluses for many years, zero funding, empowerment of public property, communication and not development fiscal governance, bureaucracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u574	Mr Colleague, at ten minutes you have cut your five-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u575	And unfortunately, we're heading to a dead end again. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u576	Mr. Loverdo, you want the floor. For two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u577	Look, Mr President, I would not take the floor after the intervention and speech of the Vice-President of the Government on what he said about the Supreme Court. But I will say to him, on the occasion of my speech - because I am going to add something else that has prompted me in particular - Mr Vice-President, since the morning we have been discussing two days in committee with Mr Tsakalotos present, about the history of this over-the-century of a century, which is your creation. When the Minister was forced to go backwards, he stopped in the summer of 2015, referring to the memorandum that we voted to support you then when you broke up. It has not gone too far, because it has a possibility of discrimination. You lost this possibility tonight, and you say things about the 50 billion? Are you referring to historically different things about legal persons with Greek administration, and you commissioned them to foreigners? Today we have shown that you are even spending shares of public-sector companies protected by the Constitution? You must a little pity when you are addressing the opposition and especially us. But I would not say that, Mr President. I am sitting in my chair saying: What now tells us about prosecutors and economics of the parties? I'm not questioning that he knows exactly what prosecutors mean. It was in '89 there, present when they persecuted Andreas Papandreou, but now, for the economics of the parties, we did ours in justice. Let's go yours with the trust and the offshore companies too. You'll do us a favor. At last!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u578	Yes, sir. Mr Vice-President, please, very soon your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u579	I don't understand your rhetoric, Mr. Loverdos. I'm presenting to the Minutes. First Memorandum: 50 billion privatizations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u580	What does it have to do with the superstition?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u581	You were committed to selling assets and collecting 50% and we had to overthrow this policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u582	Not French, not foreigners.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u583	Secondly, the equivalent of the second memorandum, which reiterates the commitment to sell EUR 50 billion in crisis situations, etc. [[At this point the Vice-President of the Government - Minister for Economy and Development, Mr Ioannis Drasakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] We have dealt with this policy, that is what Mr Shoeble asked us to do, and that is why I am going back - and I believe that everyone is going back - because I was in the special negotiation, and I lived in that drama, where only with the help of the French President, Mr Holland, then and with the help of Mr Rencie, we managed to achieve not to sell any assets now, but to get into a fund, to make use of their proceeds, not to debt, as would the 50 billion, but to go half to debt when and half to investment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u584	You brought the strangers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u585	Mr. Loverdo, I'll tell you one thing. If you insist that you do not draw conclusions from the past, if you insist not to take lessons from the mistakes made, you will constantly make mistakes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u586	Thank you. Mr. Kamaterre, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u587	Mr President, I am sorry that you have not reacted before, or rather I am sorry, because we have not all reacted, none of us, when we heard from the mouth a member of the Golden Dawn call the fighters of the National Resistance banditants, the fighters who gave their lives and the national resistance that the House has recognised. Are we sitting here listening to this disgrace from who? The ones who collaborated with every conqueror and they are now coming here and are incurring us for patriotism! I'm sorry we didn't react. I regret that I didn't react.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u588	Hard!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u589	Yeah, you're gonna beat me up already!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u590	No, to God!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u591	Ladies and gentlemen, I am of the opinion that there is no dialogue here today on the part of the Opposition. Why? Because, while four or five basic arguments have been answered several times by the opposition, both by Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Juliarakis and by Mr Vice-President earlier, they are still insisting on some things. For example, due to time, the example of reductions in pensions is being made and Katrugalos resigns. We hear the same thing about the superstition. We heard them before, not repeat them. We are listening to the surpluses. Of course, they can't be sure that's all in the medium term. The articles of the bill relating to the prerequisites, and we must vote for them, in order to close the fourth assessment, do not contain any material measures. All that they say or are, they are voted on, they existed beforehand, mainly in the third assessment, but even these are distorting. And the surpluses have said too much. Very well said by the Vice-President. Let me just one comment. Apart from the fact that the Opposition, New Democracy and PASOK, when they ruled, had overcrowded and said that, I will tell them something else: their surpluses from where they come from? Where do we want to create them? Their own development - because they say there must be growth - who benefit and who do we want to benefit? I'll tell you what I mean, so I can do it more lined up. Look, I disagree with what our Prime Minister and our partner often says, which says 'do not worry, because we achieve what you have not achieved'. But, dear companion, do we have the same goal? What we want to achieve, the exit from the memorandum, are you sure that's what they wanted and that's what those who put us in the memorandum want? It barely suits them, glove them came the Memorandum, not to say that some have already sought it, and some have said so, that "if the memorandum did not impose redundancies, we would." But we still see it today with the proposals they are making. What are their suggestions? Here I would like to stress what is the most important for me on the next 20th of August. A lot has been said. It relaxes, we can move more freely, etc. For me, ladies and gentlemen, do you know what the big difference will be? That our world's dividing line will be more obvious than theirs. The dividing line will be clearer, because at last we will be able to do some things without the committee we have so far, the forced ones. Allow me to give just one example of this, in order to show how we are being oppressed and how we have been legislating so far, which we have never accepted, unlike the other world, which is not only in its policy, but is also seeking to do so. The example - and I shall end in a minute, Mr President - relates to island policy. I do not know what has happened to the institutions - I think we all know, but we have to highlight it - and they have targeted the islands. Our government has made every effort on island policy within these suffocating budgetary frameworks. He's done a lot of health for the ferry. The metaphor's coming. Because of time, I don't mention it. I just want to mention the problems that cause us. I would like to say two things, Mr President. We have just heard of an amendment from Mr Spirtzi, which is unacceptably imposed by the institutions at the expense of the islands. So we found the islands to hit? You heard. There was the hour for the minimum rental in private cars. We did it three hours ago a few months ago. Now we're coming to abolish it. And the Minister manages to save it and save it for the rest of Greece and for Crete. Poor islands are insisting on abolishing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u592	Don't vote. It's simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u593	Okay. You guys see what you'd do if you didn't have the cover of the memorials, dear colleague, so you could come out now and get us out of our left. Let's see what you're going to do with your own policy, which is that the differences are normal. That's what your Chief says. Can you not admit that we have to cover these differences between people, will you cover the natural differences that the islands have?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u594	Mr. Kamaterre, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u595	I was challenged, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u596	Well, it's okay, what do we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u597	I'm done with VAT. They were stuck with VAT, cut off the reduced VAT rate, while in all the countries of the European Union they have a reduced rate. I know our ministers have done everything possible so far. That's why, by ending, I'm addressing our Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u598	Vasa Siomple. They're getting old, you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u599	What exactly is going on in dialogue, ladies and gentlemen? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u600	It's not my fault, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u601	Mr. Kamaterre, please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u602	I'll have a word and I'll be done. Last time, with the Prime Minister's intervention, we managed to keep him for the five islands, with the refugee and immigration. We know the problems with the refugee. Only the Prime Minister, having an opportunity now, has opened a window from the draft decision which the European Council has given and which Portugal has implemented in the Azores and Madeira, can even at the very last hour ask for VAT on these five islands, which have these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u603	Thank you. Mr. Gregus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u604	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I will not comment on the Memorandum of Understanding who left a moment ago. I really deserve it. I don't understand why you keep eating in this Chamber. You're remembranced too, you're memorials too. It's all about the show. In fact, I have heard the spokesman of the New Democracy asking for more time. But you've been talking all these years. You said the same thing. You have voted for the Memorandum and you would vote again. What can one say in five minutes on such a day, another black day, as well as so many others where in the Temple of the Republic the anti-Greek Form SYRIZA - ANEL will fulfill a pile of cheques of international loan sharks, your bosses who are loyal to you and to the detriment of the Greek people? The Memorandum of Understanding states that, in order to continue with the earlier provisions, the Government is to submit a series of provisions to another established bill aimed at the economic extinction of the Greek people, in accordance with its ideology and standard practices. The dirty and disgusting lies of the Prime Minister's debt, but also of his MPs who reproduce them, once again demonstrate the aims and purposes of the form. Lie about the end of the memorials. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Lies. Lies. Lies. In fact, Karugalos today dared to tell a show that whoever's lying must have consequences. Apparently, he needs a mirror and he and his company. This was always the Left, a power mechanism against the peoples, against workers, against the interests of ordinary citizens. This bill reflects the good and excellent relationship between the Left and the capital and liberalism. Electronic auctions continue, taxes, tolls are being increased, main and supplementary pensions are being reduced and, of course, workers' wages from one to three. I'm also talking about pensions and wages. Of course, this is not the case for the SYRIZA and ANEL MEPs, since they fill their accounts with thousands of euros every month, proving that for the spoon and the mortar their ideology is small and insignificant. The government structure, of course, remains not only in violation of individual property, but it consolidates and regularizes the divestment of public property and the assignment of national sovereignty. We are talking about Article 109 in which it grants the public property of the Greek people. In particular, the strengthening of the ESM of all public assets irrevocably and unconditionally. And while all this is happening and much more, money is there, but for illegal immigrants, always in every bill. Now, with the last-minute amendment of general number 1619 and a special number of 249 we have a number of privileges and benefits, money, benefits, allowances as I said before about illegal immigrants and Roma. Yesterday, in Thessaloniki, it was revealed that another Roma presented his nephew for his son in order to receive an allowance. This is a typical case, but also a common one. We could say a lot about this bill, too. Of course, this came as a matter of urgency too, like almost everything. But it is urgently necessary to clear the corner because you are too few and too dangerous. You remind us of the Samara junta - Venizelou, which systematically destroyed the Constitution and insulted the city, which is something you are proving with your attitude to the subject of our Macedonia. It bothers you, and words scare you like the word treason. I've said it in another speech. According to Thucydides: "The traitor is not only the one who reveals his country's secrets to the enemies, but also the one who holds a public office in his knowledge does not take the necessary steps to improve the standard of living of the people on whom he is ruled." Here, obviously, she has a double application. The plan was drawn up by all the anti-national arch and is executed on the basis of a plan at a specific time and with specific performers: New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK and, of course, the River. But the tombstone of the so - called constitutional arch can also be done, very soon. You have reached the point where you are negotiating the name of our Macedonia. As the Secretary General of the Golden Dawn Nikolaos Michaloliakos said, it is not a simple name. It's the soul of our nation. It's our story. Slav, Slav and Macedonian can't do it. The Macedonians are proud, Greek alone. Of course, Paul Melas and the thousands of fighters were not sacrificed for any double or complex name. As our newspaper says: "The heirous mob and the unblemished nation states have not yet said their last word". We will be at every corner of our country, wherever necessary, in order to defend our only Macedonia. With the power of the united Greek people, we will take you to where you deserve it. The people do not forget, and of course we will not let him forget. As for the piracy "Macedonia renowned, Alexandros, the country that you banned the barbarians and you are now free" we learned from our fathers, we learned it to our children, and our children will learn it to their children, in a stubborn spirit of all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u605	Minister Stavros Kontonis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u606	Thank you, Mr President. I understand that today's debate is going to a large extent on the issue of the name of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. I will speak of a great success of the Greek Government for a total success. I will not talk about victories and defeats, because in such an effort, in my opinion, there are no losers and winners, there is a serious and responsible attitude to end a twenty-five-year outstanding. I believe that the framework set by the agreement is absolutely positive for the country in the sense that we now have a complex name, that name applies to all inside and outside the neighbouring country, that changes are made to the constitution which thus eliminate the altrugation references and the most important of all that has to do with the soul and mind of the Greek people, no longer raise a question of claiming Ancient Macedonia. I want to refer to the name, and I want to say this. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about an anonymous country whose name we are looking for to pay. This country has a name and what's its name? The name that Greece has accepted under the UN is the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Is this a complex name that contains the term Macedonia and has been accepted by Greece for years? I don't think anyone's gonna say that's not what I'm saying. It is much worse for the name by which they have recognized it a hundred forty to fifty countries internationally. The Republic of Macedonia. Let me remind you of what Constantine Mitsotakis said, that if we do not find a solution to the complex name, then in that country will only be the name of Macedonia, which, in itself, each understands, creates an aerial space to move a nationalist and extreme right wing in Skopje. And you consider it accidental that the President of the Republic of Skopje today, with his statements today, spoke about surrendering to the Greeks and that he will not sign the agreement. Why was that statement? These are things that must also concern us today with an extreme rhetoric on this issue, they must be made wiser to them. But I don't see it, it's true. I do not see it because it is being raised to a greater degree than the issue of party interests. Some forget to tell us themselves, New Democracy, what name he was negotiating for. Would that name be erga omnes? Would it have power over everything? From what we remember, a name was negotiated that was Macedonia - Skopje and that would apply only to the bilateral relations between Greece and Skopje. That's the situation. Here too, today that we have an agreement that goes far beyond the agreements which the New Democracy has set to implement, we have criticism. It is the same tactic, ladies and gentlemen. You said the same thing about the surpluses. While you had agreed to surpluses of 4.5% and 5%, you are critical of the government because it has identified the surplus of 3.5% and you say it is too much. It is the same logic: Micro-party rhetoric, opposition rhetoric, without any ballast and without any basis. Unfortunately, once again, the Civic Opposition appears below the circumstances. The second thing I wanted to say, ladies and gentlemen, is about objective values. You know, the government couldn't abolish HISBIA. This is an issue that remains open to the government. But he has tried, with repeated restructuring of the objective values, to transfer a financial burden from the poorest to those who have the opportunity to pay. That's what's happening now. Why are people protesting? Are they trying to protect their party customers? If some of our poor fellow citizens are to be lightened up to the detriment of some who have the financial potential, that is just and socially acceptable. So we wonder why this rhetoric about an increase in HISPIA, while in fact there is no increase. The amount of HPAI is stable. What is going on is the transfer to a percentage of those who have the ability to pay more. I shall end in a minute with the two legislative interventions, Mr President. As I said yesterday to the committees, ladies and gentlemen, two are the legal interventions of the Ministry of Justice in the multiplier draft. One is on the timing of taking and adopting a decision in the procedure for interim measures when two auctions are successful, that this procedure should be completed in the deposit of eight days of the application and eight days after the lodging of the application. I said yesterday that it has nothing to do with the deadlines for auctioning. Fortunately, this has been understood and I have not heard any speaker here today repeat it. The second initiative we are taking is to incorporate in the framework of the second opportunity citizens who have come to an economic deadlock, but have not been able to get into the bankruptcy procedure, precisely because there was no bankruptcy. I would say, therefore, that Law 4446/2016, which we voted on in November 2016, with this legislative initiative, the government opens it up and opens up this possibility to others who have come to a disastrous point in the economic crisis, and in this way alone they will be judged to be acquainted with for bankruptcy by a court and a second condition that three years has elapsed since they are recorded in the bankruptcy registers, will enable our fellow citizen to restart his activity and leave this generalist, which has been characterised as a trade death. So I said that, with this initiative taken by the government, another policy on the economic requirements and economic conditions laid down by the troika and the institutions in the previous period is being identified for this area. We're entering another time. The Greek Government can now legislate more widely, and that is surely after August of this year, when this black period of memorial policies expires. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u607	Thank you, Minister. My colleague, Mrs Sophia Vultimatis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u608	Thank you, Mr President. We have been fed up in this Chamber all day with the Skopje's arguments. If they were called Macedonians and they were Macedonia, and if they have the name, then why are they asking for it? Why do we have to make a deal? They had no problem. You all know well that the owner is giving it to you. Look, since the summer of 2015, after those heroics of the first semester, when SYRIZA - ANEL entered the memorial dance, they began to sign one additional memorandum after the other and all the burdensome agreements of the earth, culminating in the eternal superstition, which is now becoming a guarantor, become a counterparty and makes a guarantee of Greek public property. In other words, the signature of the Greek democracy, the Financial Stability Fund, the Central Bank, was not enough. What do you say to us every time, gentlemen of the government? That it wasn't your will, that you retreated into superpowers, that you were pressed, that you were forced. Good, since you confess to doing so in budgetary matters, what will convince the Greek people that you are not pressing on national issues and that you are doing everything here with your free will and your proud negotiation? So you want to tell us that you're retreating to everything else, but don't you retreat to the national and the skeptic agreement? No, gentlemen. You're pressing on this, too, and you're retreating. It turns out now he wasn't under pressure at the end of the day, but he was Mr. Tsipras. It turns out that the slogan in Skopje was not favourable, but the agreement in Athens was favourable. Because something has been promised by Mr. Tsipras. That's why, today, Mr. Tsipras, speaking with Mr. Reggling, said he feels like he's playing in two chessboards, in economic and national. We don't only know if he's a chess player or if he's the pawn. Because at the moment we are facing a great national retreat. Because if to date Skopje had an existential problem, Greece will now have an existential problem. This is the first time in our history that Greek government neglects and surrenders national right. The next one will no doubt be ground. No, and not and not listen to that and our neighbours and all the international actors who celebrate it. Because you all know very well that Macedonia's name is the vehicle. What's the need? Whoever says "I am not Macedonian", "there is no Macedonian nation", "there is no Macedonian identity", "there is no Macedonian language", then what can Macedonia do with it? That's clear. From now on you have a lot of responsibility for what happens. Because you give them language, you give them the name "Macedonna", you clearly say that everyone will be called Macedonian according to the perception he has in his mind. And you don't tell me, when a resident, a citizen of this country goes out and ask him "What are you?" he says, "Macedonian, but do you know not of Alexander the Great, but of Cyril and Methodius?" When they ask him what language he speaks, he will say "Macedonian, but forgive me he's in the family of South Islamic countries". Is that what he's gonna say? Or will he say "I'm Macedonian and I'm speaking Macedonian"? In any case, there is no language recognition procedure in the UN. What has been done was a dictionary, a database to consult the Chinese people in the various countries that exist. And you're the one who recognizes the present language. That's the reality, that's what you're signing right now. To tell you, too, that for the first time in the preamble, from the outset, you say that the two parties agree on the need to abstain from any kind of alkaliism and revision. Does Greece have altritis and do you recognize it? You are also saying that there will be a joint committee of experts who will examine school books so that they will refrain from allutism and not just school manuals, but also all aids. Therefore, a teacher who wants to give as an aid "the secrets of the swamp" will not be able to do so. Look, it is such a situation that there is no possibility of this agreement being accepted. It has nothing to do with Ivanov nor what Skopje say, nor with anything. It is a great national retreat. Make sure everyone understands it, because such an agreement in Greece will never pass. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u609	Thank you, Mrs. Vulge. Mr. Katsis has the floor, and then Mrs. Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u610	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I too could not start by not making a reference to the issue of days. So, with the agreement between Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, our country shows the way to cooperation, solidarity and co-development in the Balkans, in an area that has become a field of conflict, mainly because of nationalist outbursts, for many years, while taking back the unscrupulously robbed Greekness of ancient Macedonia and our heritage. So a great diplomatic success, which many have tried, but no one has succeeded to date. It is crucial that in my opinion cool, reasonable, low tone, and I would like to say to the opposition that in one way or another, sooner or later you will not avoid raising your share of historical responsibility and taking a position. With this bill, the country finally closes the historical circle of memos and enters a new era. But allow me a small regression and an evaluation of this time period. The country's exit from the Memorandum, with the successful completion of the project, is a historic justice and relief for all of us of the majority, which lifted the burden of the forced compromise in August 2015. Because then there was no obvious development at all. Not at all. I remember like yesterday the agony of all of us in here. Is the program coming out or is it designed to fail like the two previous ones? What if the targets he has and they have a hidden agenda for Grexit at the end, as planned in 2015 or earlier? Will we be able to implement parts of the Left programme in order to keep the society upright and cancel certain peaks committed by the previous governments, or will the lenders not leave us? Will austerity be called into question in Europe by political changes or will the 18-1 correlation continue as it was in 2015? Is it really worth the effort to put our hands in the gutter, unleash the country, or should we resort to the safe environment of the proud protest? That is what we were thinking at that time at the expense of historical responsibility and persistent dilemmas, which was the reality itself. Our choice of staying and fighting today justifies us. Because the programme has also come out and it has proved that the targets are being reached. On the contrary, previous governments were completely unreliable and with a lot of weight on their back. Debt has decreased in the short term and will be further and medium-term. Many of the parts of our programme have been implemented and we will continue to implement, gradually healing the wounds. Europe is not the same after developments in France, Portugal, Spain and Italy. And above all, it was worth not letting the previous system of the triangle of interlocutory return to the government right and we simply offer a scarf to cry in the suffering world. But let us consider what would happen if we chose the path of departure. Would we have seven units below unemployment with a record of new jobs? Would we have the stabilisation and growth of the economy for four consecutive quarters? Would we have a dislocation of the working middle ages that the IMF and the local elite wanted? Would we have a return to collective bargaining and an increase in minimum wages? Do we have equal access to health for all and the break-up of time-consuming abscesses? Would we have a comprehensive infrastructure and the design of new infrastructure on time, of course without pan-European origins in the absorption of the NRP? Would we have social incomes of solidarity, guaranteed individual freedoms and rights, reduced contributions for the vast majority of the insured, or would we have a broadcasting landscape regulation? And more, but let me not list them for an economy of time. And say it clearly. We succeed where the others have failed for three main reasons: firstly, because the third memorandum, despite some absurdities and measures that we would never choose, had enough profits in surpluses, debt regulation and left room for our own choices. Secondly, because we do not steal, we do not dilute ourselves as a government with the parasiticism and strife that has been bankrupt in the country, but rather conflict with what we have, as well, with tax evasion and that is reflected in public finances. Thirdly, because there is a social majority that actively supports us, because it sees an effort from us and puts back on. And those who are still dissatisfied are in a position of tolerance. And you know why? Because, on the one hand, he expects us, on the other hand, he abdicates the idea that the previous people who know them well should come back. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill. We have a destructive orgy again and a distortion of the opposition and of the media. Logic and expected because they have to find something to say. With the medium-term we have the economic planning, the basic sizes of the general government for the current year and the next three years. But to make it clear: the medium-term programmes in general describe forecasts, objectives and policies, but it does not mean that they are not regularly reviewed or that they are not implemented in part because they are a dynamic process. It is therefore a matter of political will and action that the individual implementation of concrete measures, now outside the programme, with more degrees of freedom and the objectives of captured. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, one minute for your tolerance, please. Finally, I would like to make some comments on some of the issues that we have heard all the inaccuracies. The New Democracy says that there are between 15 and 18 billion new measures in three years, because the surpluses are around 5%, while the target is 3.5%. Here we have ignorance or conscious lie. It is precisely this surplus that will return in the form of countermeasures, tax evasions or expansion of the social state. That is why countermeasures are not just more than measures, but came earlier. You've come to the bars that pension measures and tax-free measures are coming sooner, which still apply. Instead, children’s allowance and 1 in 1 for public recruitment came one year earlier. In conclusion, I would like to say that we expect the New Democracy to reveal its programme, to say which countermeasure it wants, which of the positive measures it will take back, rather than destroying itself as a small protest party. Because all the substance of the next day is whether we will have a fair growth for the benefit of the world of work or have growth for the few. The New Democracy does not want to restore the rule of recruitment for departures 1 to 1, nor rent benefits, nor tax evasions in the middle class, nor to restore working normality. It only wants to reduce taxes on large companies and shareholders' profits, it wants to privatise the social state, and nothing can be promised in the small and medium-sized strata, because it does not explain where the financial area can be found. This is what the world will compare, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the four-year period and will assess us and find us sufficient and will give the mandate again to Alexis Tsipras, who, under the responsibility and political displacement of a leader who is beyond the party, and above all the borders of our country, will continue in the next four years the process of recovering the wounded authority of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u611	Thank you very much, my colleague. My colleague Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u612	The multi-legislative and medium-term context strengthen and enhance your anti-Flemish tough policy, which favours privileges and gains in pluralism and suffering to the people, since it breaks them both basic needs in wages, pensions, privileges and living and working conditions, making them skeptical and more dangerous. For example, Article 70, which is another major unacceptable step to trample down any uses of land to win the capitalist and suffer the popular family. What does photographic article 70 say? That the activities of companies, such as oil companies, which had to stop operating next to houses and schools, are not required to be removed. In fact, it gives the right to extend within the area where they operate and within the limits of the degree of nuisance for protection, as indicated by characteristics, of the business activity. What does it mean? That it is photographic to provoke capital, such as the hundred nine tanks of oil tanks of thousands of tonnes to Perama, included in the master plan of the Chinese monopoly of "COSCO" or even the operation of tanks of the big business Melissanides in Drapetson, the Fertilizers. Operating permits were granted for the installation of tanks, for storage, processing and sale of oil and even abusively, despite the protests of residents in these areas, since they are only a few measures from houses and schools and the use of land, at least in Drapetsona, has been classified as green, sport, culture, health, while in Perama it is in a residential area. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] The operation of these units creates stiff atmosphere, dysosmia, respiratory problems at the point of fainting of students. There is an observation of high concentration of heavy metals in patients from Perama and Keracini areas, which is an important factor in lung cancer. I can tell you that there are days that don't open the windows in the houses or go out to the school yard in the break children due to fumes, odors drawn from the operation of oil tanks in Perama and Drapetsona. What do residents and workers in the wider Piraeus area want? To expropriate, moreover, permits for green and recreational areas also expire. Instead, you come with Article 70 to ensure a lifelong installation at the expense of the lives and health of residents and workers in these people's regions. It is a disgrace and challenge and it may also apply to other regions and companies. The most serious is the possibility of a large-scale industrial accident taking the form of a dominus. You realize what it means to Perama and Keracini, where homes and schools are adjacent to these large quantities of fuel. Fairly they denounce residents' clubs, trade unions, students, parents, ELME Piraeus, cultural clubs etc. In fact, they do a lot of mobilizations. Ultimately, you have not only brought the ENPIA up 20% to their homes, condemning them life for further degradation in the people's neighbourhoods of Piraeus. This is your capitalist development. It aims to increase the profits of the groups and is in conflict with the needs of protection, health and life of the people's strata. Therefore, your memorial period is being strengthened by an entire anti-grassian arsenal of new pension reductions, new fraud in employees and pensioners, by the reduction of tax-free allowances, the dismantling of benefits and all of many billion euros. Also, speed in the auctions of the people's house, increase in ENVY, sale of red loans and so many others. In other words, you also create prosthetics and other new poverty, robbing people's incomes to shield the competitiveness and profitability of business groups, with provocative tax exemptions, aids to warm money and crush any use of land that is in the beam, but also a crash of whatever environmental obstacles it is about protecting the health of peoples in the people's regions. So Callic, your development, as well as your countermeasure mocking. Our rapporteur has analysed them. A place goes to the poor, and another place goes to the business. The poor, and these poor, need to strengthen the struggle for the working people's movement, which means strengthening the organized struggle for popular uproot, because nothing will be given to the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u613	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Well, let me inform the House that we've counted by 1,00' - 1.30' to be here tonight. By about sixty, so you can see on the lists all the Members on the list who are registered, so that the rest of you can't wait. There's no reason. And since it is a hundred and thirty-two registered, I would ask everyone - it is also late, you understand that time is limited - not to exceed our time, if possible by the ministers to be at the planned time for everyone to be able to speak and finish the debate until tomorrow at 3.00 p.m. when we have the deadline. The Minister for Health, Mr. Xanthos, has the floor for six minutes. Please, as long as you can be in time. Immediately after that, Mrs. Arabatzi, Mr. Karaoglu and we continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u614	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is confirmed by the debate on these days that this government has both the capacity and credibility and the international prestige to definitively close the loose ends with the Memorandum, to make the country sustainable out of the crisis and, at the same time, to open up openly to national issues, open issues for decades, in a way of interests for the country and for society. This is an undeniable development. This is clearly a reality that is irritating. And it is quite obvious that Accuracy Anti-Civilization now resorts to the familiar and secure waters of extreme right-wing rhetoric, nationalism and patriocapilia. That is the essence of the debate that we are following today. We are therefore also closing the moratoriums on health, not just without any new burdens on citizens, but by legislating and promoting social relief measures. Two specific examples: The first is the reduction in the financial burden of more than EUR 40 million for patients with chronic diseases and being treated with generic diseases, which are obviously reliable and effective. The second example is the non-payment obligation for either the purchase of vision glasses or the provision of special treatments in the context of special treatment. Today, citizens and households and families pay out of their pockets about EUR 130 to 140 million for these benefits, submit to the EEAS the expenditure and they expect sometime to get the money they have paid back. That stops. EEAY compensates providers through a voucher to be granted to the citizen. And that is what I think has an obvious financial relief to the daily lives of the citizens, where we all recognise that these burdens have been very unbearable in the years of the crisis. Austerity as a budget environment, as limitations, as measures and commitments to be observed remains, but it is clear that it is being reduced. This proves - I think - very emphatically in the medium term. There is a cumulative increase in the costs of the health system, whether this concerns the costs covered by the EEAS or the costs incurred under the National Health System. In addition, over the current very compressed budget ceilings, this expenditure ceiling exceeds EUR 450 million. It is a small one, but - I think - politically important austerity retreat in a very critical field, such as the field of health. The additional budget space also provides scope for more efficient staffing and operation of the National Health System, more fully covering people's health needs. So austerity remains, but it retreats. And above all, at this time we are promoting critical changes and reforms, which do not only aim to cut resources and keep spending, are reforms that serve a political project, a different political project in the same monumental environment, a political plan that says our priority is the universal coverage of people's health needs in an equal manner, through an upgraded public health system that is being reorganised with the focus of the Primary Health Care. This is a progressive reform that is ongoing throughout the country. There is a reform in the field of procurement in their effort to centralise them and achieve economies of scale. There are drug reforms, which, for the first time, we have a package of structural measures and not horizontal measures, aimed at guaranteeing the right of all people to access medicines, which, of course, with appropriate scientific documentation, cover the medical needs of people. So we have progressive reforms that are under way and not capital reforms, as the JRC tells us. We have reforms that broaden the public space and do not privatise the health system. And we have reforms, which, as is reflected in the medium-term programme, in the strategic plan, in their medium-term reform objectives, are the guaranteed coverage of the needs of a qualitative, public nature, care. So this is a different political plan. We believe that precisely because this government was committed to the idea of equality in the critical area of health, it is committed to the idea of social redistribution, which is why it has been able to set different political priorities in the same suffocating environment. And I close, Mr President, and apologise for overcoming time, saying this, that we are really fighting at this time - we have said it yesterday - with time and with the tolerances of society. Our appreciation, our sense of feeling, the facts really prove that the international environment is now more favourable and time is all but the resilience of society, with the interventions we have made, has been strengthened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u615	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Arabadzis has the floor now. Here, Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u616	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, again urgent, once again fast track procedures, again callous promises of the so-called end of austerity and memoranda. Flexible political theatre on the part of the government that we have voted for the last Memorandum of Understanding to complete the third Memorandum and get out at the net exit. Another myth made with many Syrian lies to cover the validation of the fourth memorial that the government loads on the economy and the country celebrating. Because tomorrow, with 'yes' in everything, you will vote for additional measures of 1.5 billion, taxing primary surpluses, the new reduction in pensions from 1-1-2019, the new reduction in duty in 2020. This is the truth of today's multi-project, and this is the painful reality that has your signatures and tomorrow's will, unfortunately, also have your votes again. But more painful and dramatic is the shadow of national defeat that since last night has been burdening our homeland, the shadow of our tradition of history and heritage that is at stake with your harmful agreement. How else can one picture, if not by the word 'delivery', the recognition by Greece of the Macedonian language and Macedonian ethnicity in the neighbouring country? How else can one describe this gift you make in Skopje, justifying their proclamation, falsified national pursuit since 1944? How else can one describe the unconditional surrender of our only weapon, veto? How else can one describe this unscrupulous national retreat? You are the government that has treated as many parties, institutions, as well as the sensitivity of the Greek people. You are the government that has been dealing with the name of democratic sensitivity for years and is now ignoring the democratic civic response. You are the government that wrote in its older shoes the feelings, the patriotism, the soul and the determination of a people, the one that was devastated in the dozens of rallyings across Greece. And not only that, but you had the courage to baptize this overwhelming majority of the mobs, you had the courage to baptize love for nationalism. In addition to the provocative and sad behaviour of the Prime Minister towards the people of Macedonia and all the Greeks, however, we are also experiencing an unprecedented behaviour of political extremism from his government partner, Mr Kammenos. Mr Kammenos, who says that, as always, he disagrees with the agreement, but which, apart from the name issue, considers it exceptional. An excellent agreement, which will certainly not have to vote against, is not coming to Parliament. And he won't come to Parliament because Skopje will not vote for it, since he is so beneficial as to our country. Mr Kammenos hides behind Mr Zaev and the citizens of Skopje in order not to lose his ministerial chair. But, ladies and gentlemen of Annell, the lies are over. If you are cutting off for Macedonia, drop the government that accepts, with your support, the transformation of the Macedonian identity into Macedonian, the government that validates Macedonianism, the idea of the supposedly divided Macedonian country. Otherwise, you are co-responsible for the sale of Macedonia. And it is truly ridiculous that the government celebrates supposedly eradicating alkali references to the Skopje constitution when it accepts the basic vehicle of alkaliism, which is the name of the so-called Macedonian identity, the so-called Macedonian language. But weren't you the ones who were close to accepting as the name and the Macedonian name of Iliden, that is, the epitome of alutrism, the slogan "Macedonia in the Macedonians"? Do you ignorant or want to do how you ignore that the language you give in light is the basis for national identity, the basis for national consciousness? The homoglogue, ommon, homogeneous religion, the language that is the guardian, umbilical cord with history, religion and traditions, national conscience. This is, after all, the legacy of Odysseus Elytis at the "Excellency", "the language gave me Greek", which you are clearly ignoring. Ladies and gentlemen, this agreement is detrimental to the country. This agreement cannot be voted on by the Greek Parliament. This agreement does not have the right to be signed by Mr. Tsipras. You do not even have the declared one, since your government partner, as he says, does not support it. We therefore call on Mr Tsipras to act as Prime Minister of the Greeks and not to achieve another crucial blow to the deeply hurt Greek people. And if it is so sure of what he is rushing to do, let him now come to Parliament to get the mandate from this Parliament before the two Foreign Ministers sign this agreement on Saturday. If dare, let us ask the House for its confidence, let it ask for your trust in its Members. Otherwise, he is a minority Prime Minister who has no right to sign on behalf of the country, much more to grant our history and identity. In the next hours, in the next days, everyone is mixed with his history and conscience. We in the New Democracy will be on the side of those who will defend history and home, without and without asterisks. Pick on which side you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL will go. History will judge us all and be merciless.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u617	The Minister for Health has asked for the floor for a legislative improvement, and immediately thereafter Mr Karaoglu follows. Minister, you have the floor to make the legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u618	Thank you. I'm making a legal improvement. It's a date change in an article in the plan. It's purely legal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u619	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers of National Defence, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Economics tabled today, on 13-6-2018, the following draft laws: ‘Structuring of the technical arrangement between the Ministries of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Hellenic Republic and the Portuguese Republic as regards the Battle Formation, with the Participation of the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Portugal.’ ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Defence of Denmark, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of National Defence of Portugal and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain concerning the Multinational Cooperation for Directed Nuclear Accuracy of Air - Territorial and the impending 1st Amendment thereto.’ They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr. Karaoglu, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u620	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a person who believes in social liberalism and I belong politically to the great patriotic party of the New Democracy, I have in my code of values the subject of paternalism, of the nation. Of course, I know that this is something that is contrary to the analysis that you, as Marxists, do, since the economy thinks it is everything. But in my ideological position, as well as as as a Macedonian MEP, I owe my country, in the land of my ancestors, to begin my speech with a brief reference to the unacceptable, the criminal agreement between SYRIZA and ANEL on the sceptic issue. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, with the sole responsibility of Alexis Tsipras "Macedonia e. Without a sign of shame and national dignity, the Greek Prime Minister sold out the history of centuries, humiliating millions of Greeks and giving our name, identity, language in Skopje. I know when there's a negotiation, you're giving something and you're getting something. What did we get? We gave it all: name, identity, ethnicity, language, veto. I really don't understand what kind of negotiation that was. Mr Kotzias proved to be a worse negotiator than Mr Varoufakis. This is, ladies and gentlemen, an abstract agreement which I anticipate and I fear will cultivate alutism in Skopje even more and will give birth to the outbreaks of significant invasions in the near future. Those who ratify it will be condemned by history to the conscience of every Greek. The national humiliation we experience all Greeks, and especially us Macedonians, have their names in particular: Alexis Tsipras, Panos Kammenos and the fatal man, Nikos Kotzias. I now come to the bill, which has been being discussed for three days, but randomly and bizarrely, the first day we had the invasion of the Ministry of Protection of the Citizen of "our own children" in the expression of the Vice President of the Government, Mr. Drasakis, of Ruvikon, to pass on to the finest. On the second and third day this issue was overshadowed by developments in our national issue, which concerns our relationship with Skopje. So what we are discussing is clearly the fourth memorandum, the second memorandum brought by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which is equally useless, which burdens the Greek people and all Greek citizens with new measures of EUR 5.1 billion. From 1-1-2019 each pensioner will lose from one to three pensions. From 1-1-2020, if it does not come sooner, each employee will lose at least one payroll, which, with the tax reduction, will lose 643 euros in particular, so in most cases a payroll. ENVIRONMENT will be imposed on the parcels. The ESS will in fact be abolished. We'll have an increase in insurance contributions to the freelance professionals. We'll have strict surveillance every quarter of the Greek economy. Otherwise, you're talking about a clean exit! Of course, you welcome and say 'we have success'. And where do you say you have successes? Development. Yes, sir. So let me remind you that in 2014 we received an economy, which in 2012 had a recession of 3-4% and closed in 2014 with a growth of 0.8%. It was very important, because the economy began to rise. And you in 2015 and 2016 returned to the recession. I would remind you that in 2017, which was forecast in the budget for growth by 2.7%, you finally failed by 55% and growth was limited to 1.3%. Let me remind you that now that we are talking, in the first half of 2018, when you were appraising the budget growth of 2.5%, you have already lowered the bar to 2%. See where to "seat" growth at the end of 2018. Invoke another success, that you have achieved primary surpluses. But the primary surpluses were achieved for the first time after thirty years in 2013 and 2014 by the Antonis Samaras national co-operation government, when you called them "bloody surpluses", which suck the liquidity from the Greek economy, which are the results of a tax raid, etc. Let me remind you of something that one said: "Your surplus is marked for Greeks and Greek women. In this all sins, all wounds, all rot, all fraud of today's politics are hidden." He saw Alexis Tsipras in March 2014 in Yannina. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because I don't have much time, I want to say by closing down for the superstition and Article 109. I have a strong memory and I remember your motto, what you proudly call me here in Syntagma Square and in all towns and squares. ‘Sold the water. You're selling the ports. Sell your mother and get out of here." I'm paraphrasing it. Today you are voting on the creation of the surplus fund for the next ninety-nine years. You commit three generations of Greek citizens. Of course, the majority of the supreme management board belongs to foreigners who yesterday revealed that - thank God - they are rewarded and rich. But there are also colleagues who understand that something is wrong and that the excess is not good and should not exist. Since he is here, I would remind him of what my dear colleague, Mr Philis, said yesterday: 'The superstition makes the country a debt colony'. In conclusion, I say to you, friends and friends, ladies and gentlemen, that Greece needs a clear exit from the memorial of irrationality and the extreme overtaxation in which you have put it. He needs a clean exit to the world of reality. It goes without saying that the New Democracy is voting against the medium-term plan, because it not only puts a mortgage on our country, but turns Greeks into permanent mortgages of a left-wing culture of redistribution of poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u621	Thank you, Mr. Karaoglu. The next speaker is Mr Gilolas. Once again, I will beg as long as you can compact your time. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u622	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be relatively easy for us to look at an economic bill above all to isolate and highlight the positive elements that extremist our country's economy. And it is true that I will not be difficult to find data by choosing what favours our viewpoint and prescribe the hopeful course of the economy. I will not do this, even if all the speakers of the opposition competed in the projection of all the strands and backwards that our Government has accumulated to them. In your possible question, if we believe that all indicators, numbers and reality state a new success story, I will not answer without the thought that everything is going well. It is life itself, the irreversible reality and the needs of society which have been hard hit, which does not allow me to be unsatisfactoryly and without attempting to explore Greece's wider economic framework into European and global integration. But let me do this by closing my speech and once I have been on a charge of what, with such a pompous and derogatory tone, many of the members of the Responsibility have called on our Government. So there is more hypocrisy on the issue of pension reduction, a matter that, as long as the country comes out of the ambiguity of the strict commission and ends with the memorials, has emerged from your friendly media as the most friendly recurring reading in these publications, but also coffee breakfast, lunch menu and dinner gourmet dinners offering in undetermined doses the channels of misinformation. Faced with this distortion of truth, we must remain realistic and speak with real elements. It is well known that pensions are the ones that have been cut off by you about eleven times. You are the ones who, with the PSI you have implemented, have literally emptied the reserves of the insurance funds with a strong and insecure risk of falling down the entire insurance system and the possibility of paying pensions in a short time. Not even to forget the clause of the zero deficit, which you accepted and which, if applied, would have led to pensions. The initiative to reconstruct the insurance system, which we have fatally taken on our backs, but also responsiblely, has brought about a way of reconciling it with fair contributions and reasonable and sustainable pensions, see national pensions, pensions of farmers, etc. Already, contributions with the addition of new insured persons have been a pleasant development, offering a worthwhile positive result. Will this efficient development be a cause for renegotiation on the level of pensions, as the well-meaning journalists and journalists demand, but are also fighting for our fellow citizens to learn? I do not think it is wise to refuse to answer at the moment when the exit is completed the expression of any position, much less a commitment. But it is certain that the well-known positive countermeasures have been foreseen, but also the surpluses with certainty that will be able to bring about, if not complete replacement of losses, at least an improvement in all social benefits in an improved development environment for all of our fellow citizens. I return to the question that I put before him at the beginning. How do we view the economic path in the country and if we are satisfied with the effort that is being made to recover as a country, raising the economy. I would like to reply without halves with a 'yes' or 'no'. If I say 'no', I will blame the many great efforts that we as a government make with any mistakes, threats and indecisiveness that we sometimes have. After all, we've seen them both experienced and infallible! If I say "yes", while I will adequately score our course, I will be wrong and saddened by a significant part of our compatriots, the young people who are still leaving abroad for job search, the middle class, the scientists and professionals who have arrived or even exceeded the limits of their tax capacity, the unemployed and the poor farmers and workers desperately looking for work and striving to ensure their basic living needs. We must not forget, however, that we are and need to coexist within the European Union, which must, of course, review the choices of dreadful economic austerity and neoliberalism, so as to stop the rich countries of the North and the Centre from creating surpluses at the expense of the countries of the South. This policy can be challenged and imposed by the people of the southern countries, and already the first signs are noticeable, but after they isolate populist, right-wing and so-called antisystemic political groups. We can do this with the maximum enthusiasm of the forces of democracy, progress and socialism. And we in our country will try it - hand to hand with the workers and the wide-popular strata, against the size of the memoranda by choosing no more, not the policy of austerity, but the promotional unity and vigilance of the forces of work and social progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u623	Thank you, Mr. Giola. Mr. Darkness has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u624	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the multi-legislative plan of exit from a bleak period, but all the speakers and speakers of the opposition have spent their speech - at least most - on another subject, on Macedonian. I assume they have no problem with the bill, it is right and they will vote for it, unless in a future debate on Macedonia they are placed on the bill we are discussing today. Either way, we are taking a step forward at the end of a difficult time, which the Greek people have really suffered without having chosen, a time for which the history of the future will be placed, but at this important moment of the discharge we must charge it to the Cooperation Government SYRIZA - ANEL and to recognise the sacrifices of the Greek people until we arrive here, since the way to the overall agreement is opened at the meeting on 21 June, when a new period begins for the country and the people. You will allow me to speak on two issues relating to culture. Ladies and gentlemen, a universal demand for the book site was and is the reintroduction of the single book price that had been abolished by the previous government, in the framework of the OECD toolbox to increase competitiveness. Unfortunately, however, what happened was no increase of competitiveness, but the appalling deterioration in the quality book and in the small bookshops, which as cultural sites are in danger of disappearing. This draft law regulates this very important one - in our view - pending with a new comprehensive framework for a single book price. With the single book price of each book title issued, re-issued or reprinted, it is sold to the public at the same retail price from all points for two years, with a discount of only 10%, a percentage fixed by the issuer. The single book price protects and strengthens small independent bookshops, protects pluralism and the diversity of publications, maintains price at low levels and protects the consumer by ensuring equal access of all consumers to books, since all books are sold at the same price at every point in the territory and even maintains healthy competition. I consider it very important that Mr Loverdos acknowledged that the Sinetti Government had then abolished the single book price and hailed its return as a very positive one. The second point I would like to make about the work and days of the current government is the creation of a favourable environment for attracting investment in an area that is the backbone of modern administration, but also the production of wealth in the new world of the 21st century, in the area of digital territory and audiovisual media. The creation of the Ministry of Digital Policy itself demonstrates the seriousness with which the government is dealing with its space and tools, because the Left looks ahead and visionary, not only in its theoretical processes, but also in its practice and in this case in its government practice with Law 4487/2017. In the multi-project under discussion in Article 116, an addition to Article 71d and 71e, in L.4172/2013, arrangements and incentives to help local production and bring investments shall be adopted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It's too little time. I can't give you much details. This article ends slow state procedures with a weapon of transparency - where the money has so far been directed to intermediate skilled pockets - on objective criteria, on the basis of quality production criteria, organised by a rich basket of such ideas, by European Union countries that have used this method. There are EUR 75 million for new productions. I would like to finish by telling you that the one-century cage ends at the end of August. I am sorry to say that since the debate on this bill, both in committee and in plenary, I see that opposition - and above all in Civicism - is dealing with this as the last chance to destroy it. You're sharing, ladies and gentlemen, with all the media. You passed through the mere falsification of truth and the make news to the fat-cut lies. Unjust labor and incomplete divestment of personal political and scientific capital for some of you in this effort. The worst part is that you understand it, too. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, for your stories with dragons. Fortunately all kinds of "Grow strong and weighted Symble" leave the scene and withdraw into the dark to build their next fairy tale. He will not save you any "Macedonian", no destructive. Good inspiration we wish. We, however, continue with the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u625	Thank you, Mr. Darkness. Mrs Anagnostopoulou has the floor and Mrs Antoniou immediately thereafter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u626	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the other major issue of the day, today and the next days, which is the Macedonian, on the occasion of what Mr Vorides said this afternoon in his speech, when he said that we need to come to an agreement and that this government has exceeded the line that had been set for the Macedonian. I read from the largest newspapers and media, what they wrote yesterday and today: the French newspaper 'LE MONDE' writes: 'Athens and Skopje agree on the rename of Macedonia'. 'FRANCOEUR', 'North Macedonia: The new name of Macedonia accepted by Macedonia.' "INDEPENDENT": "Macedonia agrees to change its name to satisfy Greece". ‘GUARDIAN’, ‘WALLSTREET JOURNAL’, ‘WASHINGTON POST’, etc., the same things. What exactly is it that the government has not done or is what the government has done and is disturbing the Civic Opposition? It solved a big issue - it had become a big issue - which was allowed by the Acoustic Opposition to drift for years and not only to crawl, but with ostracism it was allowed the name "Macedonia" for FYROM to be accepted, considering that the time will once come when all this will be solved in a magical way. What does that mean, besides fishing in blurred waters and all the known ones? Let's see things a little wider than the economy. The New Democracy, like PASOK, especially in relation to the economy, are political forces which have done what? High expectations and visions are supposed to be political, but they have done absolutely nothing to bring it to fruition. This is what they did with the question of the entry, the integration of the country into EMU, the Eurozone, a great idea at that time, a great Greek idea, for which they did not see to it that they would make any political, absolutely no policy that would protect the country in this change of environment, in which it entered, that is, no vision of how the country would stand in this new reality and not just that. The worst was, while the country was completely changing, it continued to walk with the same means and weights. So what we see is that we have a Civic Opposition, which over the last decade - and much more than the last decade - has had a supposed national policy for which it has never had the means, nor thought to invent them, to use them to protect society. I should like to point out - just a point - that we have entered EMU with the Simitis Government and by this government some people are already doomed and some are indicted. So it continued that government with the same tools of corruption trying to make politics. Today, with this government, which had a total prospect of the future of this country in its head, it thought patriotically - because we need to know when to use the words - for that perspective. We're coming out of the memos. This is a very important moment combined with the resolution of the Macedonian. Because the national theme is not fragmented internally and externally. National is what gives perspective to a country, gives it a future. We therefore come out of the memoranda, which was the main mechanism for imposing a neoliberal policy, a political austerity. We come out of these memorials, with a clean exit, without us proclaiming that we are directly out of heaven. We say that the steps must be carefully, with all the provisions needed - hence the reserve is what we say in the country's security zone towards the markets, in an environment that is very difficult in our region - but constantly trying to rebuild those areas that will enable this society to vision its future. Unemployment strikes. I didn't hear anyone mention it. But all the great intellectuals say one thing: that unemployment is the deadly trauma in the body of a society. If this is not dealt with, nothing else can be dealt with. The fall in unemployment is already apparent and will be made in the coming years, coming out of the memoranda, and it still needs more. If, therefore, unemployment is the main problem, collective agreements and minimum wage are also a huge issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u627	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u628	I'm done. Time's going through too fast. We're talking about Acoustic Opposition that he didn't think anything but the automatic pilot offered by the Eurozone - so very quickly we get into the memorials and it's good to have this insurance policy - because by listening to Mr. Mitsotakis, the Chief of Officerial Response, we see that he has the exact same logic of a neoliberal policy, which reached its ends with the memorials. That is, flexible working relationships on the one hand, on the other hand, that employers do what they want. So the country cannot have prospects for the future. So with a New Democracy the country's future would be the slow death. Everyone's interested in demographics. All scientists, however, have told us that if we do not have a serious social state, if we do not have collective agreements, stable employment contracts, the country leads to slow death.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u629	Mrs Anagnostopoulou, we have reached eight minutes and I wrong other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u630	Yeah, I'll be right back. You're right. There are points on which we are not happy and which will be corrected along the way. However, what I would like to say in closing - to link it again with the Macedonian and because all this cave is taking place from yesterday to today and it will continue in the next few days - is that trying to Dedicate Opposition to show that with the Macedonian something we have sold, we have betrayed not only the patriots - we have seen here how the future of this country was described in relation to national issues, to invade the foreign countries - but most importantly to me is that the New Democracy on this matter will account for the Greek people, because it cannot see the future of this country in the future with the Balkan neighbours and in general with our entire region in relation to its future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u631	Thank you, Mrs. Anagnastopoulou. Mrs Antoniou has the floor, which will be six minutes, and she will say 'you left my colleague nine minutes and you must cut me now'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u632	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today, instead of discussing the major issue of the Prime Minister's speech yesterday on the forthcoming agreement that Mr Tsipras wants to sign, we are discussing the fourth memorandum. Ladies and gentlemen, firstly, in order to commit the country to what the Prime Minister agrees to do, he must bring the agreement to the House. It has no political legitimacy to do anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u633	But Kumucacus was saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u634	Two, you tried...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u635	But Kumucacus was saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u636	Please, Mrs. Anagnastopoulou!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u637	I heard you, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos. You have tried, too, Mrs Anagnostopoulos, to convince us a moment ago that it is a good deal, but from what we have so far and from what we have seen from the third and fourth memorandum you have brought us, we are telling you that it is a bad deal for the country. It's probably good, Mrs. Ignastopoulou, for the neighbors who were celebrating yesterday. Unlike the neighbors, today Greeks feel betrayed. Thirdly, all those who want to achieve something that they did not achieve with all the previous governments of Greece want you to be negotiators. Lucky? You gave it all: superstition, transfer of public property, auctions, Macedonia. You gave it all up without getting anything. I can tell you this correctly: Constantine Karamanlis was not a nationalist when he said that Macedonia was one and it was Greek. Now give not only the name, identity, language, but also the ethnicity of Skopje. But know that, as very great Greeks have said, Elytis, Chatsos, Melina Mercouri, Arveler, the Greeks will not accept to steal their souls. And I won't let them call me South-Macedonian! So let's go to today's bill, because you made a lot of criticism for us: what are we talking about and voting today, ladies and gentlemen? Because you may not know the same arithmetic as the immediate minister, nor do you speak the same good English, and I imagine that you do not have the magical skills of Mr. Tsakalotos, to tell you exactly what is being voted on and finally stop mocking the right and left. Mr. Tsakalotos in his speech to the House baptized the cutbacks in increases, mortgages and all that in a text in English, which, as the disciple of the lenders, brings to the vote the Greek Parliament. Because the medium-term we are discussing today is nothing but the fourth memorandum, with absolute left-hand ownership, a memorandum with only obligations, without funding, followed by the third memorandum, of course, yours and this, of the unfamiliar era of Varoufakis, in the summer of 2015. Apparently, you're trying to forget that. A fourth memorandum, which, of course, stumbles down the new delusions of the Government on clean exit. Ladies and gentlemen, we will agree on something. According to today's bill, will the main pensions be cut from 2019? Do you agree? Will the personal difference be cut in the subsidiary? Do you agree? Will the insurance contributions of the free traders be increased further? Do you agree? Will the tax-free limit be cut by 35% from 2020? Do we agree? Will HNVIA be maintained at present, and is there expected to be an increase for the people's neighbourhoods and low incomes as well? Do you agree? High primary surpluses will also be maintained for at least five years. Do you agree? In other words, you are a loss of one wage and three pensions. From 1-1-2019 each pensioner will lose from one to three pensions and each low salary from one month. Do you agree to that? At the same time, you grant irrevocably and unconditionally to the ESM the public property, because only you accepted the supermarket, thus binding the public property of the country for a century. Today, then, the typical part of the commitment to public property in the country is also being completed. The excess shall become a guarantor and assume in any event of default. Public property enters a mortgage and is pledged up to 25 billion. Do we agree? Of course, the modern Wizard of Oz, the Greek Minister of Finance, said it was not a mortgage, but a guarantee. Mr Tsakaloto - it is not here, but you will tell him, I imagine, that you may be the magician and know English well, but with your Greek something is certainly wrong. Because you accused us of being elsewhere, I must tell you that the biggest problem of our country, our country, is that you are here, your arrogantness, the promotion of power and the indifference to the results of your policies, but - believe me - not for too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u638	Thank you, Mrs. Anthony. Mr. Diaras has the floor, and then Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u639	Thank you, Mr President. We are at the end of the Memorandum and at the beginning of a next one calling for the responsibility of emancipation, not to repeat the mistakes of the past as a country. As an expressioner, in the House, of the political ecology and of the Greens, I stress that we are not nostalgic about the pre - a memorial era of fictitious prosperity, lending and reckless consumerism. The truth is that the painful memorial period was as a result of wrong and criminal policies of previous years and decades. There was the catastrophic period 2000-2009 of our country's overcompensation and the degradation of the real production of the economy, but the worst period was the five-year period of the New Republic of Kostas Karamanlis, 2004-2009. Criticism towards the government is easy in terms of the New Democracy and Democratic Reconciliation, former PASOK. Self-criticism is difficult, but self-criticism helps to correct bad texts and to reach agreement on the common future. And what are you telling us? With a veil and a tension that the government destroyed the country. Who's saying that? So let's ask the citizens who bankrupt the country, see the truth of the numbers, see who shaped the public debt at the unthinkable heights: 1995 was 100 billion, then 100% of GDP. In 2004 it reached 199 billion. The period of the New Democracy - 2004 to 2009 - the public debt from 199 billion went to 301 billion, and in the year 2014 you delivered it to 319,7 billion, to 180% of GDP. As much as it is today and the second largest in the world as it is today. And it's not just that negative that you handed over. Who has shrinked agricultural production to 3.1% of gross national product? And in value? From 10.3 in 2000, you reached it at 6.7 billion in 2009. At the same time we have had a similar decline in the secondary sector, and, of course, parasiticism and services have increased. Thus, until 2015, that is, for decades, the external trade balance has been permanently negative. The gap was covered by new loans and the public debt increased. At the same time, the state of interlocutory and corruption was formed, which broke the place. That's what we're paying now. We reap what you sow, i.e. I and weeds and not only, but you have destroyed the earth and produced less. If this had not been done, we would not have had a surplus, a reduction in pensions, or all the other problems. These are the results of your own policy, your own attitude. So I ask the PASOK, Simitis, and New Democracy, Karamanlis, didn't they see that they were driving the country into the collapse and destruction? The model supported by New Democracy is economic neoliberalism. It is a development without a plan of survival that drives profit and not the well-being of the citizens. So, coming from the political ecology and a member of the Green Ecole, which is part of the European Green Party, I support the course of European unification for the sake of geostrategic, security and peace, but also economic cooperation. We support, however, the change in the European Union's policies in a fair and sustainable ecological direction. What kind of economy does the New Democracy propose? The same economic model and the life model of fabulous consumerism, that is what destroyed us. This suggests that what leads to a collapse both of society and of life on the planet earth. Some examples of this consumption model of life are known: standard foods and food shops, goods that are mainly single-use plastics that produce garbage, waste fashion and recklessness, huge waste production, water management, fuel burning for heating, and for many years the limited subsidy for insulation and energy upgrading of buildings has been stopped. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would also like to see a tolerance, Mr President, During the same period of Western consumerism world wealth is concentrated on very few, while 30% of the world's population does not have clean water and food. The poverty of many feeds the enrichment of the few. Even worse, the planet, water, soil, underground wealth and climate are being destroyed. We Greens want to change the deadlock consumer model and, through proper information and education, to form a new model of life, compatible with the protection of nature and natural resources. We want to contribute to the formation of a sustainable economy and gain levels of rehabilitation from guardian lenders, based on our own feet. We know that the economic debt data, combined with the hard position of lenders, have imposed measures that do not match the positions of the Left and the Ecology. However, there is also a green footprint in several areas of policy. The forest maps from 1% of the country became 55%. The recycling law was passed. The NATURA 2000 areas were extended to a large extent by land and sea. The bill for energy communities was passed. We have chosen not to remain in the statements of principle, but to put our hands in the agonizing effort to save the country by changing course. This does not mean that we do not continue to fight for the Memorandum commitments. We are fighting for the delay and the shortcomings still present in the country's regional planning organisation. We are fighting for the energy choices that bind our country to dependence on fossil fuels. We are pleased with Article 118 by which financial incentives are laid down to save water and improve energy efficiency. We are sad to see the tax reduction imposed on us by the so-called broadening of the tax base. We are concerned about a possible reduction in pensions. And we ask that the government find a way to prevent the weak sections of the population from being imposed anymore. We are proposing improvements in taxation, such as a large reduction in ENPI and VAT in remote islands and mountain areas that are devastated. Diversification of tax rates and reduction of tax rates for UN personal enterprises and for small-wind enterprises. Association of tax evasions with the environmental behaviour of enterprises. We appreciate the fact that after many years the country is back on its feet, it spends what it produces and creates the preconditions that the next generations should not live again with borrowers, such as the ones we loaded on our children and our grandchildren. According to a record of "ERGANI", a positive balance for two hundred and sixty-four thousand new jobs was recorded during the five months of January-May 2018, which is the highest performance of the first five months from 2001 until today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u640	Please complete, Mr. Deiaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u641	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is also very important that we have an increase in exports in the first quarter of 2018 by 13.2%. For the first time, we have a positive external trade balance after forty years. The government has managed in these three and a half years of its mandate to avoid the collapse of the economy and to remain in the euro. The country has gained a budgetary balance and primary surpluses, it has taken steps for our very poor fellow citizens who have been affected by the crisis with the CRL. The economy has entered a recovery orbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u642	Please complete, Mr. Deiaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u643	I shall conclude, Mr President. The bill that we are going to vote on sets out guaranteed commitments, but it follows, however, the regulation of public debt, which will be the most important factor, so that we can once pass on to normality. We Greens, therefore, who support the government, work and fight to bring about a genuinely holistic and sustainable national strategic plan to save the country and the real welfare of its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u644	Thank you, Mr. Dimitras. Come on, Mr. Philly, you have the floor. You are not helping me, however, and Mr. Friends will also arrive at the point where I have to interrupt him and he will say to me: 'Mr. Dimitras spoke for nine minutes'. So you're causing me problems. I would ask you very much to complete the procedure in a reasonable time. Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u645	In your understanding, Mr President, I shall begin. Ladies and gentlemen, the Macedonian agreement was announced yesterday. Today is a day of joy and pride, a day when every reasonable man, the whole democratic world, and of course all the left world, wait. Finally, the speeches and voices of reason were heard, the voices of George Rallis, Leonidas Kourkos, Charilaos Floraki, Michael Papayannakis, Manolis Anagnastakis, Cornelius Kastoriadis, Philip Elios, Aggelos Elefantis, Dimitris Maronitis, Spyros Asdrahas, Savva Agouridis and many other names and anonymous citizens who raised their stature against the nationalist blindness of their time. Greece, thanks to this government, thanks to the ability, determination and insight of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras made a historic step forward. We have an agreement that for our country is equal to the maximum of our reasonable positions, far beyond the agreed national line, while at the same time ensuring the national and collective dignity of our neighbours and stability in the region. Greece returns to the international community with prestige, after the monumental adventure that led to our national devaluation. Last night and at an absolute distance from all the official international reactions - Mrs Anagnostopoulou referred to some international publications - there was a discord, a voice of national and patriotic irresponsibility, the voice of Mr Mitsotakis. And his word was not only irresponsibly, not only biscuiting, but also unbearably obsolete. At a historic moment for the site, in its first practical test as leader Mr.Mitsotakis was measured and found in a lipobaric. Today he is thinking of putting forward a motion of censure. Welcome, but if he submits it, he will look like a motion of censure against his father, the late Constantine Mitsotakis. Ladies and gentlemen, let's now move on to the plan and look at the facts in turn. Uncertain debt developments. What do the Germans pursue? Is the IMF leaving? What are we pursuing? When do we estimate that we can safely get out on the markets? Big questions that reality poses. Maintaining primary surpluses at 3.5% and above. It is wrong to achieve surpluses at the expense of development. Did anyone notice the recommendation of the Bank of Greece's Deputy Governor Mrs Mitrakos here the other day in Parliament, who said that it would be a wish not to achieve the goals and not to overcome the surpluses of 3.5%? Patient growth is reflected in the medium term. In fact, the greater the surpluses, the less the rate of GDP growth. In 2022, a surplus of 5.19% is forecast and only 1.8% of GDP is projected. The weakness which is reflected in the development plan, to quickly fill the productive gap of the Memorandum years, which is estimated at 80 to 100 billion. Insufficient rates of reduction in unemployment are projected. It is not possible, in my opinion, to see the unemployment target as satisfactory 14.3% in 2022, twice as far as 2007. The requirement to vote for the third time on pension cuts, on the EKRD and on tax as a prerequisite to close the fourth assessment. The new claims regarding the surplus fund, which show that creditors treat our country as a quasi-equity colony, as had happened with previous governments. Enhanced memorial supervision. All this shows that the core of the policies pursued in all the Memorandums is neoliberal. The reintroduction of elements of collective bargaining, the increase in the minimum wage, the application of social measures, the facilitation of the extra-judicial compromise and a series of other positive measures, which are reflected in the multi-project, are very important - we stress it, they are very important - but they do not overthrow the core. Despite macroeconomic successes and improvement in a number of indicators, austerity as a imposed regime continues, as is the struggle for coexistence to alleviate its most extreme consequences. That's the hard reality. These are, unfortunately, the international and European links with the prevalence of neoliberalism. Developments in Greece will be all over the next period depending on European developments, provided that the time comes for positive, progressive displacements in Europe, before the risk of the collapse of the European structure, we are able to take advantage of them, having a left-wing government with SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, in this transfer of exit from the loan contract, we are called upon to reflect and plan, setting two fundamental objectives in my view. The first is the convergence of the Greek economy with the European economy, the coverage of the huge void that has become known in the years of the crisis, when from 86% to 68% we fell to the average European income and leads us to the last speed. This can only be achieved at a growth rate above the European average. The second objective is to bridge social and class inequalities, which according to ELSTAT's data have deteriorated in the years of the memoranda, while according to Eurostat, in poverty or under threat of poverty and social exclusion, 35.6% of the population lives. Two main axes, therefore, two challenges for all the political forces. Two central political goals, for which in the next densely-populated period of political development, programmatic shocks can be achieved between the forces that have referred to the left and the centre-left, as long as the latter is relieved of the size of neoliberalism and the paramount ties with the New Democracy. Along with these goals, however, we can and must shape a richer and more ambitious horizon of claims and expectations, to be measured with the greatest and most, which will take us forward rather than the small and the small one, which entangles us. Let's realize it. The exit from the memorials cannot be part of the vicious cycle of multiple internal devaluations and the continuous deterioration of the life of the weakest social layers. This would constitute a cancellation of the dynamic and hope that it can and must characterise the new era in which our country enters. The Greek people demand the end of austerity and not an austerity without end. From this point of view, our party, SYRIZA and the government must identify the 'later' that must be done at some point now and cancel the measures and cuts in pensions and tax. There are no semimetres or countermeasures in this matter. Others cannot pay for a multiplier time and others can benefit from tax reductions, especially if there can be many profitable businesses and their owners among them. That is why I proposed that VAT should be reduced, in other words, where unfair and indirect taxation strikes people's layers and poorer social strata. These cuts were imposed on us, as the Prime Minister said last year, in order to remain the IMF, which calculated for the most part a mistake, deliberately wrong, that we would not catch the targets for EFKA and the surplus. EFKA's surplus, 3.5% gets caught, the IMF's being removed. Now we can move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u646	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Mr. Yoyakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u647	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of the House of Representatives, I should be pleased to have this plan confirmed what we were saying 13 months ago. It is confirmed that the government was lying, claiming that no further measures will be adopted than provided for in the third memorandum and much more than 2019, as the Prime Minister said. It is confirmed that he was lying when he tried to convince that the countermeasures would be applied automatically when we capture the target of 3.5% for the primary surplus. But I don't feel pleased about any justice. I feel frustration and anger about the account that pensioners, employees, farmers and self-employed will be asked to pay for one to three pensions that will be lost, for one to three pensions, for one to three, the year that will be lost, because duty-free will be reduced by 40%, for the income of 500 euros a month that may be taxed, for the increase in insurance contributions, which will now account for almost one/3 of income from the free profession by themselves. Many of the pensioners and workers are already out of town. And I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, what can the government say to these people, when it seeks a surplus of 42 billion from this year to 2022, while for the same time it provides for an increase in GDP of 23 billion? Could he tell them about the so-called social countermeasures? We remember with how insistent collapsing last year in May that countermeasures are the social counterweight to hard cuts and that they would be applied as a reward for achieving the primary surplus of 3.5% of GDP for five years until 2022. We were then saying that if the surplus exceeds the target of 3.5%, it could be countermeasured, but it would be as costly to go beyond the target, and only if the institutions agreed. We also said that, in order to implement all positive measures, there should be a primary surplus of more than EUR 10 billion a year. Such a surplus in the medium term is foreseen only for 2022. Any countermeasures, therefore, beyond that they do not make up for losses in pensions and incomes, is a wish. The cuts are given. The countermeasures are blessed. That is what the citizens must keep. There is one more thing, ladies and gentlemen. What changed in less than a year and a half since the Prime Minister himself admitted that it is impossible to achieve such surpluses? What has changed is the continuation of the compression of our incomes and bleeding even of our weakest fellow citizens. What has not changed is an economy that is deceiving, without policies that will give them the momentum. It seems, however, that these are fine letters for a government that wants to end as - as with the current programme, agreeing on everything and without conditions. It is no coincidence that the word "negotiation" has recently been lost by the vocabulary of cooperation. However, the worst thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that all contact with reality has been lost, because only in this way can one explain that at the time the economy is being forced into unbearable commitments, the government is talking about the end of the committee from the institutions and that while society, numb, is preparing for tougher austerity, you are talking for better days to come. But thankfully for the country, few believe you now. Most have realized that you have wasted three precious years and that you have been giving the country for the next four years. But soon, you know they'll be judging you for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u648	Thank you, Mr Yoyakas, for being consistent on time. I wish you all could keep the five minutes like Mr. Yoyakas coming and retarded. Mr. Balomemakis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u649	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, most of the provisions introduced by this bill are the fulfilment of the country's contractual obligations by the loan contract. At the same time, however, the strong political will of the government to gradually begin to restore normality in priority areas, such as in the field of industrial relations, in line with its commitments, but also with its whole political philosophy. The political objective is to restore as quickly as possible the pathogens and injustices caused in the Memorandum years, but at the same time to establish new rules for the functioning of the political system by eradicating corruption and interlocutory, by providing social rights in terms of equality, by developing for the establishment of participatory democratic institutions, as the era and the prospect of an open democratic state worthy of the Greek people. The confrontation of the first arrangements which have been abolished by the first and second Memorandums - I am referring to the chapter with the provisions of the Ministry of Labour - has been disappointing. I am not talking about the New Democracy, which has historically been placed against every attempt - hostile, that is to say - to create a chance for the labour movement to have a say in shaping the terms of work and pay. It is well-known that this is about the protracting of extremist liberalism. I am referring above all to the area that has ever covered the PASOK, in whatever form it is trying to show, a political area that has recorded positive choices in the field of labour law, especially in the 1980s. "Slowly the eggs," the rapporteur of the Democratic Independence announced, referring to the Arbitration Arrangements. He is a trade unionist, and indeed a fellow Member who has repudiated such contemptuous provisions that, as he has to understand very well, significantly restore the disability that was imposed on the institution by the Memorandum of Understandings of 2010 and 2012, No.3845 and No.4046 that is to say. These two laws hit key two key points. First, they drastically limited the subjectmatter of the arbitration procedure. Secondly, they banned the unilateral action. The Greek people who listen to us and in particular to the workers, especially the young people and young people who are now entering the field of life, must be aware that guaranteeing the right to collective action and to claim better working conditions and remuneration have always been a point of friction with the forces of employers. Every time there was freedom regime and better conditions had been created, they were reflected in the greatest margins for better pay, improved working class, social competition. It must be borne in mind that the arbitration, even with its handicapped and semi-stated form since 1955, has been abolished by the junta for the first time post-war years and has taken the status of the first and second memoranda to our own days. It is indicative that only 2.5% of the very limited collective arrangements of this period have been the result of mediation, a percentage which certainly does not honour any modern European country. Previously, it took sixteen whole post-military years to introduce a modern arrangement. It was Law 1876/1990 on a universal government which together with the establishment of the OSH and with the help of jurisprudence had formed a sufficient and comparable European institution. These are the 'oils' of the honourable Member, who have, of course, been broken over their own days, of the coup d'état, even with his personal assistance. That is why, now that the Government's initiatives for the reintroduction of the institution have come in a framework that can work better and above all for the benefit of the more probable parts, i.e. workers, with a strange but completely understandable atmosphere, are causing workers' intelligence by saying that nothing changes. But the reality is here. The restoration of the regularity of collective redundancies at work begins with the introduction of regulations and will be completed very soon with changes in collective labour agreements and improved interventions at the minimum wage, for which the Government has committed itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u650	Thank you, Mr. Balomenakis, and because he's finished in less than five minutes. Congratulations on the consistency. Mr Screkas has the floor for five minutes, and I hope that they will be consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u651	I will try, Mr President. I do not believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is accidental today that you are bringing an agreement on a huge national issue that concerns millions of Greeks, at the same time bringing this multi-brand plan, a multi-branded tombstone, as I will say below, for the poor and weak Greeks, because it is hitting mainly them. I followed yesterday Mr. Tsipras, the Prime Minister of the country, to attend what he said at a television interview at the ERT and saw him celebrate, as I heard Mr. Phile earlier, and said that today is a day of joy and pride in the withdrawal agreement - in our view - brought by Mr. Tsipras after a few months of negotiation with the Skopje partners. And I ask the simple thing: what did Greece gain from this agreement? Because at the moment what Mr. Tsipras has done is to recognize that in the north of our borders we are experiencing a Macedonian nation, which speaks Macedonian language. And I beg very much if anyone can explain to me by SYRIZA Members who support this government, and ANELs, who also support this government with their actions and with their tolerance, what the country has won. Because one can say a lot about what one might lose in the near future. And the question of millions of Greeks and my staff is this: will Mr Tsipras go on to sign this roadmap for this agreement, without bringing it for ratification and a vote by the Greek Parliament? Mr Tsipras, who has moved to referendums, has granted authorisations for much more minor economic issues, for this important national issue, which concerns the nation, the Greek identity, the unborn Greeks, will proceed and will broadly sign it by an agreement that will not even make it to the House of Greeks and ask for it to be voted on by the representatives of the Greek people? What is the role of Kammenos throughout this process? Mr Kammenos has repeatedly stated that he does not support an agreement that has these characteristics. Will Mr. Kammenos continue to stand up to this ministerial prostitute he has today and to protect the political partnership with Mr. Tsipras, to hide behind arguments and excuses, that, since the agreement does not come for ratification in this House, he continues to support the government? Why are you doing this? Why do you do everything to remain in the rulership of this place? Do you produce positive results for the economy? Do you produce positive results for Greek citizens? Have wages, pensions? Has ENVIRONMENT been abolished? Did education improve? Are investment increased? No, none of them, exactly the opposite. Nowadays you bring a multi-project and for the next four years you impose on Greek citizens and on the Greek economy 20 billion taxes and cuts. Two basic things: First, you reduce pensions and reduce tax. Result: up to three pensions will be lost by pensioners, up to one low wage. You're the government that taxs poverty. You are the government that took a tax-free limit, which the New Democracy and Antonis Samaras government had taken out of the 5,000 euros and had gone to 12,000 euros for a four - member family. And you, the left-wing government, the so-called defender of the weak and the poor, have taken the tax free of 12 000 euros and you have gone it under half to 5 500 euros so that he also pays tax below the poverty line. With you left-wing government in the country, the 500 euro-dollar will pay a wage per year in taxes. This is the success of the left government. What good has Mr. Tsipras done? All Mr. Tsipras and his Government have done is stripped the Left. People understood what left rule means, a left rule that taxs the poor, increases inequalities, makes the richer and poorer. Today what Mr Tsipras envisions is the average Greek to live from the benefits of poverty and misery that he will share in order to keep politically imprisoned at his party audience. This is the vision of Mr. Tsipras for the young and the Greek and Greek women of this country. But that's not all. On the altar of political survival, on the altar of party interest, we have unfortunately sacrificed everything - from what we have seen - even these large, national ones. That is why there is one solution, ladies and gentlemen of the conflict, Mr Ministers: to collect as much dignity as you have left behind and as courageous as you have and to resign, because it is the only way to stop the downhill that you have brought Greece today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u652	Thank you, Mr. Screka. Mr. Prison has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u653	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the wake of a bad agreement with Skopje, which is a national retreat, you are bringing in a multi-brand plan, which in essence validates the fourth memorandum and the second of your term of office. You know very well that our country is not coming out of this memorial this summer. Proof of this is that you bring measures of EUR 5.1 billion with reductions in pensions and tax burdens, increases in contributions and HISPI and others. You are kneeling the economy with a public payment stop and surpluses amounting to 3.5% to 5.2% over the next five years. You pledge public property up to EUR 25 billion. On the other hand, you do not offer any comprehensive development plan. Three and a half years have passed and I continue to ask what your account of Evros and Thrace is. We proposed that you should be given the accuracy clause in proportion to the insularity clause, but you have caused key blows to the emeralds of the northeastern and southeastern Aegean through the open borders policy. You have abolished the payroll subsidy of 12% in the operations of Evros and Thrace and strangled employment, leading businesses to migration. We proposed to you the setting up of a intergroup special committee on the progress and development of Thrace, following on from the one set up for Constantine Mitsotakis in the early 1990s. Unfortunately, you turned our backs on us. We stressed the demographic problem of the prefecture of Evros and especially the desolation of the two hundred and fifty villages near the border. You showed gross indifference on your part. We suggested the new sea Egnatia to unite Thrace with its vital area, which are the islands of the northeastern Aegean. You drowned in a spoonful of water on the ferry routes. We presented a specific proposal for satellite tolls in the new Egnatia. You also decided to set up frontal tolls in the Ardane of the Prefecture of Evros and chose to double their price by abolishing the exemptions for the permanent residents of Evros and Rhodope. We offered you the connection of transportation as a basis for Evros' development. You didn't deal with it. You have shown a flaw in the new 'Orient Express', that is, the Baku railway line - Vienna, and you have allowed it to cross the border through the neighbouring country. We asked for the self-interest and autonomy of the Dumos Hospital. You hide and do not come to talk about this matter in the House, despite the timely questions that have been put. We have highlighted the problems of the New Orestiad sugar factory, as well as the major economic problem faced by customs producers, of which two and a half thousand acres have been left unwitting even now. You are still looking for an investor for the Greek Sugar Industry. We wanted a Democritus University of Thrace, which would be a pillar of development and progress for the wider region. You complimented us with a Minister of Education that undermines our university. We have put forward concrete proposals to tackle the growing refugee and migration flows through land and sea borders. You responded with vows and cries. We called for anti-military armour and allowed agriculture to drown in the mudwaters of Evros and its offspring. We asked for the scientific embezzlement through the establishment of a veterinary school to deal with aggressive zoonoses and you have not been able to operate for three and a half years or the Institute for Exotic Diseases of New Orestiad. We have handed you a rule of law and you have turned it into an iniquity state, its capital and certain areas of it into a destination of criminal tourism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With your agreement on the Skopje you split the Greeks to unite the Skopje. With secret diplomacy, you have brought a shameful agreement on our national interests, with painful consequences for Hellenism, the nation and the genus. You do not have political legitimacy because you have put the country into constitutional and political irregularity. The government's declared trampled. Other governments in the past have dealt with the national issue, but they have not given the terms such as "Macedonian language" and "Macedonian ethnicity", as you have done with a great deal of willingness. In Evros and Thrace even the people who voted SYRIZA and ANEL feel betrayed and their national prestige has been eaten. At the same time, for a hundred-five days, the Armed Forces are facing a crisis for two members of our troops who are being held in Adrianoupolis as evilmen in a uniform of the Greek soldier and none of the authorities are responsible for political responsibility and none of them resigns. You're trying to stay as long as you can fantasize in your chairs. You will remain in history as the "Government of Postpopulation Expectants". Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u654	Thank you, Mr. Prussakis. Mr. Bukouros has the floor. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Well, I like that you're not losing your mind, even right now. That's good, that's good for us to go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u655	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while the medium-term casts its shadow on the lives of the Greeks for the next four years, but also for many decades on the basis of its predictions, it is absolutely certain that the shadow in the medium-term debate is also the agreement announced by the Prime Minister for Macedonia. I fully understand that this agreement does not have the same political significance for all of us. You majority mainly consist of untreated internationalists, who really do not understand meanings and concepts such as "national fairs", such as "borders", such as "future claims" and all that. It's another your ideology. We are perhaps more important to all these issues, and we are therefore more strongly asking ourselves and thinking about the outcome of the negotiation. But I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that my concern for your late allies, from the old, 'patriotic' PASOK, from Macedonia's constituencies, is also reasonable, and I wonder how they treat this agreement. I wonder, of course, how your government partner, the Independent Greeks, is dealing with it. I have taken a quick look, before I go to Stepma, on the list of speakers and among a hundred fifteen Members I have not seen a single representative of your government partner asking for the floor today. They've literally disappeared. But this does not give them any kind of forgiveness about what they have said about this matter to the Greek people. I also attended the Prime Minister's interview tonight, on public television, which posed the new question: 'But well, will we have a referendum to decide what our neighbours are going to say?' No, Prime Minister. We will have a referendum to ask the Greek people if they approve the product of your negotiation. In addition, the country's charter on serious national issues expressly provides for it. You held a referendum on an issue of economic content. You even refuse to listen to the word 'vote' on an issue that is a top national issue. You will be judged by the Greek people. I understand and I will not call you, as you have done on the glorious days of your counter-population, nor the government of german germans, nor the government of national miners, and all these sad things that have poisoned public life and public speech. I understand that other things you believe. For your late allies from the patriotic PASOK and especially from the prefectures of Macedonia and your government partner I wonder. And now come to the medium-term, which we are discussing. What are the components of the medium-term programme? Horizontal cuts, endless austerity, that is, beastly surpluses, embedded public property and weak growth. Who's gonna pay for it? One and a half million private pensioners, one to three pensions and one supplementary, five hundred thousand public pensioners, three pensions, hundreds of thousands of free professionals and farmers who will see from 1 January 2019 increasing their insurance contributions by 17.4%. The conclusion is that the medium-term touches about four million Greek households. But do we have a clean exit at the same time? What's the clean exit? With the strict comitology, the atrocious surpluses, the ongoing control for everything that you are voting for and deciding today? No clean exits exist. The strengthening of public property up to 25 billion is the great proof. Also, who is hitting the left government today? It makes it difficult for the victims of the crisis, the high-priced households. It will tax the employee of EUR 660, who, as of January 1, 2019, will have to pay one of his 12 wages in tax, which is not happening today. It raises HNVIA to sixty municipalities and mainly to the people's neighborhoods of over 50, 200 euros and tells us that it reduces it to one and a half million taxpayers. How much? Five and seven euros. Is it the same? Is it the same, ladies and gentlemen of the majority? They once said 'the numbers prosper and people are unhappy'. You, with your informal policies, have succeeded in not prospering neither the numbers nor the people. You are pharmacizing growth. You have not achieved your own development goals. Growth rates are the key size showing the state of an economy. Not only did you not achieve the international organisations' estimates for 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. You did not even achieve the forecasts you had entered in the budgets. Do you realize how many billions you lack, surpluses from a restrictive policy, surpluses from overtaxation, which the Minister of Finance tells us is high, but isn't taxation in Greece too high?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u656	Mr. Buquoir, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u657	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. I call for the tolerance that you have shown to previous colleagues and nothing more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u658	You've already reached seven minutes, so don't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u659	All right, Mr. President. I'll finish in a minute. Despite Armageddon's new measures, which hits the weakest, despite the fact that you deprive the Greek people of the right to express themselves on a large national issue, you still deprive him of the opportunity to make use of public property through the empowerment, with the superstate, the eternal, the 100 billion heroic negotiation. National concessions, the second negotiation. Eternal commitment to public property. Nevertheless, I am glad to say that you are government, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. Fortunately, because we saved Hardouvelis mail and let it be five times the medium term from Hardouvelis mail and let it be four times greater than Hardouveli mail what you have legislated in meters since you took over. But the sovereign, in my view, is that you are mistaken for any development potential. Your partner, the former Minister, Mr. Friend, told you too, even though it was mild tone, he said very substantial things about how wrong your policy is. You are tampering with the future of the country and the new Greeks. You're pushing our children abroad with your policies all the time. The policies that you are adopting and implementing are unrelenting and unrelenting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u660	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. There are seven colleagues left, the time is twenty-five minutes after midnight. You don't keep the time, so I think it's great to finish at 1,00'. If you keep your time, five minutes, we'll be done by 1,00'. The turn is: Mrs Katsavria will now speak, then Mr. Lambroulis, Mr. Papadopoulos, Mr. Theodoktikos, Mr. Kavvadas, Mr. Aivatidis and Mr. Papaliou. I understand that you all want to talk, but we also respect the services that are up to now. Here, Mrs. Katsavria, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u661	Thank you, Mr President. How many lies, how many half-truths and how many misinterpretations, aiming to terrorise society, Mr. Boukoro and ladies and gentlemen of Anti-Population, have you once again resorted to lies, without yielding any creative feature and no proposal for solutions to today's bill. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, prerequisites are being laid down, namely the obligations of the fourth programme, but there are balances of legislation between the requirements of creditors and social needs arising from the persistence of the government's consultations and systematic efforts, which have led to satisfactory arrangements for several issues of major importance. According to the projections, a new era is inaugurated for Greece, a time of exit from the multi-annual crisis and the memoranda. Our Government, covering social security deficits and resolving legacy problems of decades, has attempted deep areas, based on sustainable development and social justice and with the priority of supporting weak groups and collective goods - health, education and social solidarity - as well as institutional consolidation at all levels. In 2016 and 2017, support policies and actions were implemented aimed at vulnerable social groups and prosperous policies to address the social humanitarian crisis, such as social income of solidarity, family allowances, school meals, the integration of children of unemployed and poor mothers into nurseries and the health coverage of uninsured citizens. After eight years of economic recession for the first time, the country records a budget surplus, which is expected to be maintained in the medium term, while the objectives of the primary surpluses have been exceeded. Despite the difficulties of recent years, for the first time you may allow us to look at the future with optimism. In 2019, the financial area created will allow tax reductions to help increase households’ available income, as well as targeted social policy actions for all, to combat child poverty and invest in human capital on equal terms and justice. With a view to sustainable reduction of youth unemployment by the unacceptable 27%, which we received at the end of 2014, up to 14.3% estimated to reach 2022. At the same time, real GDP is expected to increase by 2% in 2018 on a yearly basis, with further economic acceleration by 2021, due to a positive investment contribution, and provision is made for the minimum wage to be redefined. With this bill we continue this effort. Let me stand selectively in certain regulations with a positive social figure. There are two measures in the bill to be passed, which, while they seem to be unconnected to each other, are essentially two measures that are deeply social: the reintroduction of the single book price and the extension of the measure of school meals to all the primary schools in the country. With regard to the reintroduction of the single book price, which existed in our country, as in most European countries, and was abolished overnight by those who are today in the face of this bill, it is perhaps easy to think that large publishing houses are favoured. Yet, when we read the numbers of years that have passed without a single price, we will see small publishers and bookshops closing without being able to withstand competition, authors with a significant print on literature and culture no longer find publishers, because their books are considered difficult for a few, therefore non-commercial ones. But language, culture, education, the diversity of public dialogue and democracy itself need balance, which cannot be achieved with the free and ultimately binding and effective functioning of the market. But with the bill that will be passed tomorrow, the government dares even more, it reintroduces, in full, the re-issuance of exhausted books, not easy or in a slow life cycle, but important for the literature of the Greek language. We are sure that tonight and tomorrow we will give a breath to the small publisher, the remote libraries, who are struggling to survive, the tireless spiritual man who touches his thoughts on paper and shares them with us. The second point I would like to make is school meals, as a necessary counterweight to the crisis in recent years, which extends to all primary schools in the country, particularly to areas and schools hosting populations in poverty. Not a single child should be deprived of basic food. The measure is to be added to a number of others, with the aim of supporting the family. More specifically, strong support is given to the majority of low and medium-income families. The housing allowance of a budgeted total amount of EUR 600 million will be breathtaking for thousands of households, either for the rent of their main residence or for the loan instalment for the acquisition of first home ownership. I consider it particularly important that the provision of the bill also refers to disabled people. They reduce their movements and suffering in the award of the benefits with a friendly information system and support from the two hundred community centres in the municipalities of the whole country and in the regional administrations of the OPECA. Transparency and verification of the actual needs of the SMEs shall be ensured. In addition, the establishment of an obligation to register in the OAS's unemployment register of all the unemployed beneficiaries of the OAS facilitates their integration into labour market activation, training, retraining, employment. Ladies and gentlemen, I am used to saying that we are here and for the difficult things. But we are here to do what we promised. All these positive measures in the bill were promised, they were fair and they were carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u662	Thank you, Mrs. Katsavria. Mr. Lambroulis has the floor for five minutes. You'll tell me it's a little bit of time, but you understand me at least more than the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u663	Yes, Mr President, I will make the corresponding effort. The new barbaric measures put forward by the government, which will be added to all of the previous ones, confirm that the fair growth of capitalist profitability does not only bring about a recovery of losses for workers and the people, but presupposes an intensity of the anti-grass attack. This is the picture after the typical completion of the third memorandum, with the Government trying provokingly to present the account of the magical image of the next day, highlighting the infamous countermeasures that will quickly soften the working people's families from the consequences of anti-Fraud, anti-Fraud policy. These are countermeasures, the 'blooded' surpluses of which are, in fact, measures to manage the consequences of the anti-grassroots policy itself implemented by the government. They are measures and countermeasures which form the two sides of the same anti-population project, which will in the inter-relationships have cuts and memorials for the people's families. Thus, for example, zero participation in the choice of generic medicine does not mean that patients will not pay because the insurance price, which is not matched by the popular price and the difference, will also be paid by the patient. So, it's another 0% participation and another free medicine. However, even the coverage of about 5 million, as mentioned in the report of the bill, this counter-measure is not covered by the State budget, but by other receipts from the EEAS or possibly by the charisma to pharmacists. And the government baptises this "anti-medium", winning with foreign collisions, at the same time as bio-medical expenditure has been launched, as a result of anti-grassroots policy, drug and health, while the new pension cuts will make it even more difficult for many pensioners to access medicines that are in need, how much more expensive to services, through the commercialised, privatised health system. For example, e-registration for young disabled people is not just a measure to facilitate their registration, but a measure to which benefits and rights this system is interconnected, since the government's policy provides for low welfare budgets, benefits far behind the needs and benefits of a level of poorer housing for the most extreme cases. Will the development of the concept of functionality or not act as an extra tool for reducing disability benefits, benefits and so on? Since, on this basis, although the level of benefits or pensions for disabled persons will depend not only on the disability rate, but also on the possibility of the disabled being able to work, his social, educational level, the potential of the disabled because of the economic and family situation to deal with a series of daily problems arising from the type of disability. This content includes the so-called ‘depreciation’ of the Disabled Pensions and Benefits criterion. In practice, even these currently confined benefits to the disabled will be able to be taken by those who are mainly part of the heavy disability, along with the lack of other income, family support, assets and so on. Thus, the criterion of functionality comes to specialize in the area of disabled persons in the policy of rationalising state expenditure, i.e. cuts with serious consequences, even for the essential additional needs of disabled people. This is the general direction, as is mentioned in the official texts of the European Union, of increasing reductions in public and insurance costs and their limitations on the most impoverished. Furthermore, this logic of minimum benefits to the severely disabled and financially impoverished shows the World Bank's report in 2006, which has been committed by the Greek Government to implement, based on the classification of disability more on a person's functionality than on the state of health. Here is how, in the light of the OECD guidelines and the World Bank report, the concept of functionality will be used as a cut-off mechanism for the benefits of disabled people, reduce disability rates and pensions and go by saying. So here is what people with disabilities, like workers, poor people from the measures and fraud of the so-called 'anti-measures' are expecting. The only breath they can expect will not come from the management policies that support the capitalist development path, but only from their struggle and alliance for loss recovery, from meeting their needs in conflict with their capital, governments and parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u664	Thank you, Mr. President. There has been a change internally in the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. While I had announced Mr Papadopoulos, who will speak tomorrow, Mr Mardas will speak. Immediately after that is Mr. Theocratic, Mr. Kavvadas, Mr. Aivatidis and Mr. Papaliou, to complete today's process. Mr Marda, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u665	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many interesting issues are being raised in the House. Of course, many of these are out of the question, in accordance with Rule 66(8) of our Rules of Procedure. They are interesting, but, as it is out of the question, I do not want to make any points. I'll do it when the time comes. As for the rest, I can say that there are often inaccurate sounds, despite the fact that we have texts which are clearly written and incomprehensible. On the other hand, there are some excesses. My point is the superstition. And I would like to make a few points, to see how we got to the excess. Let me remind you that our debt in 2010 was about 330 billion euros, about 146% of the country's GDP. At that time, the Public Building Agency had conducted a study and had found that the public property amounted to 272 billion. And she wasn't the only one, as we had the Health and Welfare Ministry's property, two thousand four hundred and ninety-nine real estates of between 50 and 60 billion euros. There were other state-owned properties which did not belong to the study carried out by the CED, rather in the first section of 272 billion. Also, as you all know, the areas you are returning, which you visit, there is a terrifying fortune of the municipalities, which is still unexploited. It was estimated by the New Democracy that this whole amount was up to 350 to 400 billion euros. At that time we had the first medium-term programme in June 2011, in the medium-term 2012-2015, on page 36 of which there would be a deprivation programme of EUR 50 billion. I'm filing the medium-term page for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Mardas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The same on 7 July, Mr Samaras referred to a capital increase of EUR 50 billion. It was then estimated that if we exploited 40% of all the property I mentioned earlier - because the 272 billion were not clean, in the sense that there were some problems, but according to the study of the JRC 40% remained clean and were to be exploited - if we entered such a process with PPP or with leasing, with long-term rental, without the State losing ownership, there could be revenues of EUR 5 billion per year. These were written at the time. Then our property had a value. Since you did not go into a process of exploiting the property in the time that you had to, it was reasonable - and anyone could appreciate it - that, because of the crisis, we would have a depreciation of this property. Thus, despite any commitments, despite any promises, despite the fact that in 2010 this property had a high height and could cover with quite a lot of comfort in debt, nothing has been made or made very little, to be more precise, in the period 2011-2014. What does that mean? Greece indicated that it was unreliable, there were relics, there were delays, there was a form of institution retardation, and that we would reach the superstate. The superstition is a creation of the inconsistency of the 2010-2014 period, as well as of seeing it. Because if you were to apply what you promised or what was recorded in the medium term, there would be no excess today. And a debate is currently taking place on 25 billion, which is a guarantee and not a pledge to a total of about 320 billion euros. So our entire concern is 25 billion and we ignore the 320 billion which we owe or imply that, beyond 25 billion, all the rest will remain either unpaid or I don't know what else? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u666	Thank you, Mr. Marda. Mr. Sanctuary, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u667	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask a question so that we can get a little bit of this from the outset. Do you want to get out of the memorandum or not? Do you want to finish the memos or not? Who wants and who doesn't want to start with the basics. We and our Government want to end with the memorials and that is what we do with this bill, which successfully closes the fourth evaluation of the third programme and takes our country out of the memoranda in August 2018. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, do you want to get out of the memorials or not? The Greek people want to hear because so many months our clean exit has been announced since the memorials in August, we are listening. Do you want, yes or no? Does PASOK colleagues want to get out of the memoirs, yes or no? First of all, we need to know if they want to. They're not in the Chamber, but they'll listen to us. Because of the political mistakes and crimes of New Democracy and PASOK the country went bankrupt and entered the memoranda, with the "air" loans, with scandals in health, with armaments, with public contracts and so much more. That's what you bankrupt the country, you put it in the memos, and now that we're taking it out, you don't want it to come out. That's at least a misdemeanor. All the European Union, all the international actors, all the institutions, and especially all the Greeks and Greek women, want to get out of this humiliating comitology, except for Mitsotakis and New Democracy. But whether they want it or not, this bill also closes the fourth evaluation and, while respecting the sacrifices of the Greek people for eight years now, we are taking the country out of the memoranda. The economy has stabilised, ladies and gentlemen. According to figures, it has more than one, a year and a half that goes well in foreign direct investment. I mention, for example, that tourism each year breaks one record after another. There is growth, there are surpluses, falling unemployment and so many others. We've known these for a long time. We also know society, it has more than six months since we see this thing stabilising and slowly going to a budgetary upwards, on an economic upwards. In society we see that. With this plan, we don't have any new measures to make that clear. On the contrary, we have positive provisions and, for example, I mention labour and health. It is expected that there will be a financial area for both the conducting of pro-collegiate policies and the reduction of tax rates. Now, the Vice-Presidents are talking again about what had been voted on in the second assessment. They say we're going to cut pensions in 2019. That's what they said before, that we'd activate the cutter. Let them do this first and then tell us. Then they say we cut the pensions. They cut them 11 times and now they say 'you'll cut them'. Let's do it first. Now, some of us have been forced into the second assessment with an irrational obsession to vote for it, and I mean the IMF. We know that, but let's see if we're gonna do it. I can only highlight the worship and umbilical cord that the New Democracy has in 2014. The ball's stuck over there. It was good in 2014, it was gold in 2014. They are defending it and they do not see that the people have condemned it. So that's what they want to bring back. I would like to say a few words about the Macedonian. Let this national case not happen, ladies and gentlemen, history of lost opportunities, such as the Cyprus issue, which we say 'every last year'. In 1992, if we closed the deal, it would have been better. Now it's a good deal. If we leave her for twenty, twenty-five years, it'll be worse. That's what happened to the Cyprus issue. Don't get it right now. It's a good momentum. It is a good deal, which puts an end to the lid of the name "Macedonia" as well, which has been taking place for decades. One hundred and forty countries have recognized it. They recognize the northern neighbours that there are no albumination. Of course, the attitude of counterpopulation is incomprehensible, because both the government of Kostas Karamanlis and the government of Samaras - Venizelos spoke of a complex name everywhere. As a government, they said a complex name. Now, what serious voter on the right will see these revolts and tolerate them? We have heard from my colleague, Mr Skreka, this paradox. Bring in, he says, we have to ratify it in the House and then sign it. The agreements are first signed and then ratified. And that's what the Prime Minister said in his interview with the ERT. It's really a profit in the negotiation. In other words, the agreement will come to the Greek Parliament, after passing through the Parliament of the northern neighbours, by a possible referendum and by a change in their constitution. Is that a profit and we will lose that profit of negotiation and agreement? Why imagine that we have ratified an agreement and then that the Constitution will not be passed or changed, which is how difficult it is. Mr President, I also referred to the committee yesterday - and allow me a minute - on proposals to the chapter on red loans with the Katseli Act and the extrajudicial mechanism. It's in the positive direction. I made some suggestions yesterday and I don't see any legislative improvements from the government. I say them now and there is time until tomorrow. In Article 45, the extrajudicial mechanism should be extended to debts in 2017, in order to understand the outstanding applications. It must enter into the transitional provisions. It's important. In the explanatory statement, Article 47, what it says does not include loans that are not business-related. I repeat that it is a person and not a loan, both in Katseli and in the extrajudicial mechanism. In Article 56, not just to the legitimate shareholders, that is to say, to the close family, but to all the heirs, and let the judge judge judge whether there is a treacherous or not. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In Article 58 1d, the responsible statement must be deleted. It is degrading, foolish and unreasonable to ask for a responsible statement industry. Make a responsible statement that you're not a dealer, he says. It's a legal concept. The judge will judge her. The involvement of the secretariat in Article 58(2) must be expressly provided that the professions, for example doctors, lawyers, engineers, are excluded from this note. With regard to Law No4354, it should be clarified that 'formally' will not be made orally, only by a phone call. This has to be clarified.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u668	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u669	I should like to close my suggestions with regard to Article 60(5), which also made a plea of non-constitutionality by Mr Carras, who is not standing by at all, because the cessation of toddlers in the Katseli Act is done by submitting the application to the court, on the condition that the application is finally accepted. If such an application is not accepted, interest shall, in any case, be revived without the provision we had. Eight years of the Katseli Act, that's how it applies. The market and the laws are thus implemented. Now it's just coming in with an explicit order and it's cleared up. Of course, there is no question of unconstitutionality. That is to say, otherwise it would be easy for anyone to stop the toddlers by submitting an application to the law of Katseli. This plan, ladies and gentlemen, is the last act of the drama of the memoranda and is essentially the beginning of the redemption of the Greek people, so I would ask you to vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u670	Thank you, Mr. Theocratic. Mr. Kavadas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u671	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government has once again brought in a bill with the urgency procedure and in a treaty which is extremely critical, not only for the economy, but also for our national issues. The tragic, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is that, as in the economy you negotiate in a toxic and nationally harmful manner, so you negotiate on foreign policy issues. I am referring to the issue of Skopje, without even having the necessary government cohesion. The Annells condemned Mr. Tsipras's agreement with Skopje. Therefore, Mr. Tsipras has no political legitimacy to go without his own support for his government, but he continues without regard for everyone, for his co-government, for the opposition he has never informed, and especially for the Greeks who have risen up to state their opposition. I will not get carried away by the government's disorientation tactics. The New Democracy will do what must and will bring the government before its responsibilities for this national retreat, which cannot be accepted. On the bill, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder what more I have to add after the disarmament of the former Minister and MP of SYRIZA Mr. Friends to the committee yesterday, which has established Mr Tsakalotou's arguments, stressing that the countermeasures contained in the bill will not relieve employees and pensioners and that the surpluses will not help the development of the Greek economy. And Mr. Friend is not the only one. Many of the SYRIZA and ANEL Parliamentary Groups share the same view. This, Minister, is the proof that this bill also stipulates the fact that your policy is not supported by you either. Even you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, who until yesterday cultivated the myth of clean exit from the memorandum, do not believe it. The most likely is to discipline parties and vote. You know, however, that by voting you are bringing new obligations, new future commitments, new austerity, and even without new funding. You know that, with your vote, you are unconditionally ratifying the fourth Memorandum. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this bill, a new memorandum with the signature for the second time of the Left Government, a memorandum with measures of 5.1 billion, with reductions in pensions and a reduction in duty, which you have been telling us a few months ago is another red line for the government, with primary surpluses not from growth, but from overtaxation and pendanting of pensions, with a mortgage on public property of 25 billion as a guarantee for the repayment of the ESM, with a growth that does not meet the needs and needs of the country, with heavy insurance contributions for freelance professionals and a mountain of new fertilising austerity measures. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, it would be nice before you came here with this bill to have made your self-criticism and, at least, if you could not have done differently, to legislate differently, to have had the political courage to ask for a renewal of citizens' confidence and to face up to reality. And the reality is that for your days you have increased taxes, increased citizens' debts, confiscated dwellings, made one million eight hundred thousand budget seizures, reduced the citizens' available income, the poor have become poorer and will become even more in this bill and all that has been thanked was the party state of SYRIZA - ANEL. Ladies and gentlemen, thankfully for the Greeks the works and days of SYRIZA - ANEL are over. Sadly, however, for as little time as you have left, you are still managing their fates and you are here today to lightly vote for the heart of new heavy measures of austerity. That is the reality and the reality is the one that opposes you, not just us. Finally, you understand that, apart from false words, there are great acts and actions, your statutes, your memorials are stripping and people are clearly seeing political deception and mocking and that they will prove this to you in the elections that will come sooner or later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u672	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. Mr. Aivatidis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u673	Thank you, Mr President. The coup d'état has bombed the Greek citizen in recent times, of course with the help of various media, with the announcement of supposedly clean exit from the memoranda in August. This is a false premise, a libious and misleading premise. The question is very specific: is it another delusion or is it a political deception? In the first case they are political ethers. In the second case they are clearly political archivals. I have heard from the SYRIZA rapporteur an argument in order to show how correct - and to resolve the problem - there is a conflict. It mentioned the sharp decline in unemployment in our country. In fact, in March of this year unemployment was 20.1%. This argument is a debatable argument. Let me remind you, without of course being an economist, but, basic things I have to know, growth can be achieved through investment and, of course, through high employment with sufficient efficiency and, of course, hard work. In 2008, the people employed in Greece, i.e. those with a job, were four million six hundred and fifty thousand. The unemployed in 2008 were thirty - five thousand. Ten years later, today, the people employed in Greece are three million seventy - seventy thousand, one million less. The unemployed are six hundred and fifty thousand more. They amount to nine hundred and seventy - four thousand. Let me note here that three hundred thousand, at least, Greeks have left. 60% of these have at least one degree and only one in four wants to return to Greece under the present conditions. In January of this year, we had a recession of 0.2%. In February we had a 0.1% growth. In March we had a recession of 0.2%. In other words, we see some revolts in the indicators. In April, the index was zero, and in May it was 0.6%. The forecast for 2020 is about 2%. The excess in 2022 is more than 5%. What does that mean? That over-excession will not be based on growth, but over-taxation. I also note that the ratio of debt to Gross Domestic Product at the end of June will be around 176%. Maximum was in 2016 on SYRIZA, 180.80%. So the conditions are not good at all. The government's lying about the clean exit. The third memorial to the vote is the most pertinent of all. Of course, the root of evil is in the previous governments. There are two clauses, a definitive commitment not to question the nominal value of the debt by Alexis Tsipras and a mortgage on the present and future movable and immovable property. To confirm these, the "Stamp", I would say, is Article 109, with which the "Greek Participation and Property Company" is a guarantor for up to 25 billion. Public property is essentially predetermined. The introduced draft law is the shipwreck of the Marxist - Leninist Left in Greece. It is a full subjection to international loan sharks. A similar shipwreck of Marxism took place on 4 May of this year, when the arch capitalist Jean-Claude Juncker in Trir made a fiery speech in favour of Marx, essentially ironing the Marxist theory and, of course, declaring this subjection of Marxism to capitalism. Golden Dawn invites all Greeks - not Greeks, of course - on Friday at the rally that will take place in order to protest against the Tsipras Zaev agreement. I note a similarity between 'Athens Pride 2018' and what I can call 'Prespes Pride 2018'. In "Athens Pride 2018" peculiar sexual fellow citizens proudly demonstrate their peculiarity. In Prespes Pride, peculiar politicians like our Prime Minister proudly demonstrate their inadequacy, making a national moderation. Golden Dawn calls on the people to resist by all legal means in order to preserve Macedonia's Greekity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u674	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Papaliou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u675	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the multi-brand plan under discussion includes the prerequisites for the completion of the fourth evaluation of the third Memorandum, which will pave the way for the country's exit from the grid and the mechanism of the memorandum policies, and of course for the settlement of public debt. This means returning to normality, without this return being a return to the past. It means that from now on the country will have greater freedom of movement and therefore choices. The hard commission will cease and the bill is the last of the Memorandum. There will be supervision, which exists in all the Member States of the European Union, even if it is in our country's case that it will be strengthened. And, of course, the country will also have responsibility for the post-mortem policies. In all the posts of colleagues from the New Democracy and PASOK there were intentional omissions. Colleagues did not say a word about when, after what policies and what governments the country went bankrupt. The bankruptcy took place after a period of plating prosperity under the intermittent corruption regime. They did not say a word about which government the Memorandum was imposed. They did not say a word about the 2010-2014 period. Let us remember what happened at the time. GDP fell by 25%, 11 times the pensions fell, hundreds of thousands of businesses closed, unemployment flew to unthinkable heights, and also the country bleeded with thousands of scientists fleeing abroad, the so-called 'brain drain'. This discourse of the colleagues of the New Democracy and of the PASOK for their responsibilities also confirmed by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, who said that 'we are not dealing with the past'. Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen, the past is burdening you, it is burdening you and it always has consequences for the present and future. New Democracy and PASOK did not say a word that, following the failure of the left-hand side strategy and the repeated discrepancies of their forecasts, the humanitarian crisis, the improvement of macroeconomic indicators, the gradual decline in unemployment, the increase in exports, institutional changes that define the framework in many areas of public life, and changes that should have taken place for many years and, furthermore, the'solistic' development plan following regional development conferences, which has been a large participation of organised local communities. In this context, this multi-brand plan includes, in addition to commitments that are based on the August 2015 Memorandum, and positive measures in the fields of industrial relations, entrepreneurship, health. In particular, in the area of industrial relations, mediation is strengthened, unilateral referral to arbitration is confirmed, collective autonomy is restored, sectoral collective agreements are extended, the principle of favor is restored, etc. These arrangements also reflect our difference in relation to the neoliberal policies of the New Democracy and above all reflect our difference in the memorial era, that is, our difference in the perspective of time. Ladies and gentlemen, this will counteract the social state's policy with the policy of neoliberal arbitrary and neoliberal barbarism. After years of recession the Greek economy enters a recovery orbit, which is consolidated and expected to last. Institutional areas - reforms in all areas are a prerequisite for the implementation of the development plan, which can change the country's productive model and the orientation of the Greek economy. The country finally acquires Land registers, forest maps, clear land uses, organised business reception structures, single law on public procurement, modern company law, new simple licensing and business operation regimes. Both these and other reforms launched in the judiciary and public administration require time to consolidate and deliver. In this context, it is expected that investment will increase and unemployment further decline. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to all of this, we have been trying to radically tackle the interactive and corruption phenomena that have been afflicting the country for many years. Let us not forget the hugging of the old party system with the media, business interests and banks. The unpaid bulk loans of the parties that have governed the country, the collapse of historical publishing groups, the injuries to the credibility of the political system reminds us of a past that we must leave behind definitively. The people have already condemned it. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy and the PASOK are insisting on neoliberal policies. Against them, and against the backdrop of interests behind these policies, we need a single social and political front. The memorial era must be a period of growth, productive reconstruction, a fair distribution of the wealth produced, so that the country and the citizens can see it. We expect to make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u676	Thank you, Mr. Papaliou. We're done for tonight. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Priminal Responsibility of the Ministers", as applicable, on June 12, 2018, a criminal case for the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Juliarakis. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Tuesday 24 April 2018, Wednesday 25 April 2018, Thursday 26 April 2018 (morning) and Thursday 26 April 2018 (morning) have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u677	The minutes of Tuesday 24 April 2018, Wednesday 25 April 2018, Thursday 26 April 2018 (morning) and Thursday 26 April 2018 (morning) were ratified. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-13-S1-commons.u678	With the consent of the House at 1.16' time, the meeting for Thursday, June 14, 2018, at 10.00, on the subject of the House's legislative work is to continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Provisions for the completion of the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement - the medium-term framework of the Financial Strategy 2019-2022 and other provisions".
