ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's 18-12-2018 authorisation, the minutes of Wednesday 12 December 2018, the MG meeting on Thursday 13 December 2018, the MG meeting on Friday 14 December 2018, the MG meeting on Monday 14 December 2018, the MG meeting on Monday 17 December 2018 and the MF meeting on Tuesday 18 December 2018, including the discussion and vote of the State Budget for the financial year 2019 were confirmed.]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘Environmental arrangements of the Ministry of Environment and Energy - Clearing it from 20.11.2018 Convention between the Greek State and the companies ENERGEAN OIL AND GAS - ENERGEAN AEGEAN AEGEAN ISLANDS ANIMAL INVESTMENT AND PRODUCTION OF HYDROGONTHROKONOMY AND KAVAL OIL ANONYMERIA, amending the Convention on the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the maritime area of the Thrace between the Greek Government and the KAVA OIL ANONYRIZIA ratified by the Law. Regulation (EC) No 2779/1999 (A to 296) and other provisions.' The above bill, following a decision taken by the Standing Committee on Production and Trade and on a proposal from the relevant Minister, is discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure, in accordance with Rule 76(4) of the Constitution and Rule 109 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents at its meeting on 17 December 2018, the debate on the principle and on the articles will be concluded in a meeting of a maximum of ten hours duration. The rapporteurs and special speakers, the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and one of their representatives, as well as an independent MEP, are involved in the debate. Their speech is limited to half the year provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I therefore propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that a speaker be appointed by each parliamentary group, as well as a speaker by the independent Members. Finally, I propose that the debate on the principle and the articles should be uniform. With regard to speaking times, I propose that the rapporteurs and the special speaker should have eight (8) minutes, the competent ministers ten (10) minutes, any other ministers and Deputys of five (5) minutes, the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, as well as the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group ten (10) minutes, the Presidents of the other Parliamentary Groups eight (8) minutes. I propose that Parliamentary Representatives should have six (6) minutes, and finally, the speakers appointed by their party five (5) minutes. Does the House agree with this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u4	Mr Arvanitides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, I would like to ask whether Members will be given the floor to support or take the floor on the amendments which have been tabled since the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u6	This is not the case, but we usually follow this practice, because it has a functional effect, so that it can develop an amendment, which on two lines does not appear to be apparent. We'll do it. So we're moving on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, will this be a commitment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u8	The Bureau has followed up. For two minutes, time will be given to develop. It does not open a list of speakers, it should be stated by those who have been designated and who are to inform the services.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u9	Secondarys, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u10	Yes, three minutes will be the seconds. Let's move on with SYRIZA's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, will a list of Members of Parliament be opened on the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u14	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u15	I have tabled an amendment in the short term, and I would like to support it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u16	No, it's the process...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u17	The Rules of Procedure, if I may, do not provide for any different treatment of amendments, even if the bill is urgent, since the urgency has been overcome by six ministerial amendments, irrespective of the main theme of the legislation. So I think we need to move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u18	Mr Carras, a list of speakers in the urgent debate is not opening, because you understand what would happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u19	No, on the amendments. For those who have testified. I have tabled an amendment in the short term, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u20	You will be given the floor, but there will be no general debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u23	The list has been opened. I've already registered. That's first. Secondly, we cannot talk about the amendments. Look, this process, which comes up with a bill as urgent, and there we make amendments, these amendments, and photographs are not, who believes that they are correct? It can be legislative work, can we? So, whoever wants it? We said, let's go for elections, but everything in the bag?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u24	For everything, there's an explanation. Obviously, there is an explanation why this road is being chosen, which, I will agree with you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u25	No, no amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u26	...that's not the Orthodox parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u27	If you want us to keep the urgent procedure, to be honest, to have no amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u28	It is right that there should be no amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u29	It can't be done, of course...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u30	If it has amendments, at least we should be given the floor to say our objection, people should listen to us and judge us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u31	It will be given the floor to speak whoever wants, but there will be no list of speakers in the sense that we have said. Obviously, the debate will be facilitated because you are quite right. It is not a good parliamentary practice, but it is followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u32	The point is to find it right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u33	We're gonna make an effort to alleviate it as much as possible. Let's move on with SYRIZA's rapporteur, Ilia Cameroon. You have the floor for eight minutes. And respect times, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, why protests? I do not think that there are any amendments to the urgency when it comes to articles giving extensions, etc. There are counter-proposals to extend the period differently. And if you see, most of them -- not to say all of them -- are in this direction. Anyway, don't waste my time. After the end of yesterday's plenary sitting on top of the budget - it is the first sitting following this procedure - we are coming today to discuss an urgent draft law. Actually, we're running a race, a race of speed, to catch up with some things. It is impossible not to link the procedure today with this top debate, which has taken place in the budget. In what sense? That it has emerged in the budget debate that we are talking here now, coming out of the memoranda, about the clearing of two different policies, which we have been seeing for months when we are being called upon to vote mainly on positive measures. And the budget had no negative measures. That's normal. It creates an irritation in opposition. And so it is justifiable that the inadmissible behaviour of the Chief of Officerial Opposition, which I, at least, as a Member of Parliament, have been elected for the first time in recent years, made me feel like I was being interfered in this House, despite being the property of some families and who have the right to behave, as they want, without taking into account any presidency or anything. In any case, they will have to swallow the glass, because the people have sent us here, not to pursue this policy, which they have been conducting for so many years, but a completely different policy. And that, like I said before, started to look. Let's see what bills are urgent now, in the last days of the year, to see through what happens? Allow me, in a minute, to give more information on what is currently being discussed in this House these days. Apart from our own bill, which is urgent - and I will say now - an urgent bill on immigration is being discussed. And because you're always enjoying to blame for the rest of our government for incompetence, for sloppy, etc. - You guys capable of doing everything right - to see in migration what you would have done, if you weren't SYRIZA? Did what our Mayor did in Kos, where more than ten, twelve thousand immigrants were on the beach and in the town parks and we paid for it in 2015 and 2016, in your view of immigration? And you covered this policy here as the New Democracy and other parties, unfortunately. Another draft law on motorways, which is urgent, is also being discussed. Again, will you blame us for sluggishness and incompetence when we found the motorways stopped, for projects being unable to proceed with scandalous contracts and regulations? I fell out of the clouds, when you took part in the committee just before, I heard that only for the maintenance fee, for the maintenance of a piece of road, you agreed to give 1.7 billion. And our government, by negotiating, saved me, not only this, but hundreds of millions, unlike your own contracts. And much more, it's over and it's already inaugurated these projects here. Inside, therefore, the bill that we are discussing today still seems to be the different policy, which we are pursuing and which irritates you. What are we talking about today in our bill? It's first-- first setups for the Stock Exchange. Let's see here, you guys who've done a serious job with design, what have you done for the Stock Exchange all these years? We are fined by the European Union because we should have finished it. Not to say that it is an essential tool, so that anyone can plan seriously and correctly in this country. And you who are in favour of investment, how much did you make sure that you have a very clear field to attract competent and proper investors? Other investors were able to attract. The ones who wanted to grab them and get up and go. The regulations on the register therefore concern an extension, which is necessary, in order to be able to be completed in some areas because of problems that have arisen. And that is why it is urgent, because we care to end the register and do not leave it like this, as well as issues that regulate the administration of the register. We're going to another thing that regulates the bill. It regulates energy issues. The energy, where we know what you did: you had it all, to go to private people. We too, with many efforts and in spite of the commitments we have had, the negative, have tried and held public control, in most cases on energy issues. There is a need for regulation in this area too. I'll just stand out for one or two, due to a lack of time. It is very serious to finance support measures, which we must vote on and it is urgent. It concerns mainly the areas of Kosani, Florina and Megalopolis, where there is a transition from the lignite age. Slowly, lignites are being abolished, so by 2020 these actions should be financed here. So the bill we are debating now provides for how it will be done, as soon as possible and juster. Provisions are also made concerning the 'Security at home' as regards the calculation, how the budget will be determined, in order to be radical or not to renovate a building that is necessary to move forward. An extension of the deadline is given for the submission of declarations by professional farmers of energy production. We know the difficulties that people have had and they can't make it. Although the deadline is short-term, I think it serves them. And it's necessary. Arrangements are also being made on urban issues. Again here, in town and country planning, do you want to see your own design and what direction was it? Or your own sloppiness, for which you blame us? Who should we catch? The spatial plans, which were either not or were destroyed? Or urban studies? Or the regional spatial plans, which, although they were in the locker room, are we starting to approve? Now we're even giving funding to get local villagers going. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One, two minutes, Mr. President. It is necessary and given in the draft law an extension of the validity of the seismic crew permits. You understand the need for people to be able to complete damage recovery. Expansions are also given to internal deadlines in the bill, which regulates urban issues and arbitrary settlements. I say 'internal' - I repeat - to prevent any misunderstandings. It does not concern an extension of the final deadline for declarations for the settlement of arbitrary but internal deadlines, the need of which arises from the difficulties encountered by electronic systems. I'm on my way, and that's what we're doing. And in that we are doing so, and without a plan, which all slowly becomes electronic and facilitates, not only the fight against bureaucracy and the shortening of time, but above all transparency. There are also issues, as they are, for the building of education and health buildings, precisely because we are interested in making such constructions in the building of education and health, without the need to amend the modal plan, always an instrument under the other conditions of construction, which are applied. We are interested in protecting them, and so far you have not even obtained a decree to protect areas. And it needs this extension to be protected until the presidential decrees are completed and adopted. Also, it is very important to see what happens with the settlement of St. Anargyros, which is being transported. Again there is an urgent need and an interest in how people are transferred fairly, how they will be restored, how they will be compensated. That is why matters of land compensation and return are regulated. I conclude, Mr President, with the last part of the bill concerning the extension of concessions. It is the fifth extension, which is given - but is necessary - by 2020 for the gas storage site at 'South Kavala' until the GIDE is prepared for the necessary tender for the operation of this space. So you will be subjected to this storm of proposals, the urgent amendments and amendments which must come, in order to restore what you have so far been incapable of doing and incapable of doing so - and many times, not only with incompetentness and inadmissibility, but also with which you have been able to move in this brilliant landscape, in your own way, which you know very well, to manage until now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Thursday 20 December 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) The 226/17-12-2018 topical question of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Dimitrios Vettas, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Tax problems relating to the non-successfulness of agricultural parcels". Under No 228/17-12-2018, a topical question by MP I Athens, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "What is the strategy of the Ministry of Culture and Sport for managing the cultural stock?" Under No 227/17-12-2018, the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on 'Remuneration of oil producers and other producers for the damage they suffered'. The 234/18-12-2018 topical question by MP Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Serious problems of workers in the interests of “Zoura””. The Question No 225/14-12-2018 by Mr Marios Georgiadis to the Minister of Culture and Sport on "Financial Funding of the Pan-Hellenic Typhlon Association from the gross revenues of private television". The Question No 218/12-12-2018 by Z' Vice President of the Parliament and Mr Spyridon Lykoudis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "The Elderly of Athens is in a marginal state". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) Under No 229/17-12-2018, a topical question by MP Argolidas of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Andrianos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Great and unjustified delays in the implementation of the extension of the Palais to Kosopodi, Mycena, Monastery, Fichia and Ermionida". Under No 232-18-12-2018, the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: '12 years of sustainable and permanent regulation only for existing dues for insurance contributions'. The Question No 223/13-12-2018 by Independent MEP Mr. Georgios Lazaridis to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Great delays in the work to highlight the archaeological monument of Lofus Kasta". The 193/30-11-2018 topical question by Congressman I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on "The administration of the Aegean is being promoted by the Government". The question by MP I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Skopje port becomes Thessaloniki on the basis of the Prespecies Agreement". The Question No 75-16-10-2018 by MP Pireos of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Protection of crews from abandonment of a ship of inland waterways”. The 1/1-10-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Antonios Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Macedonian Museum and other institutions, associations and associations of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u36	Mr Christos Boukokouros, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, despite the fact that this is a bill which is a stirring-up of amendments, as you have agreed during the committee, we will not be avoiding the storm of the amendments today. It is a bill, which all its articles are amendments, since they amend articles of previous laws, and new amendments in the draft law debate. This is a very bad way of coining. We're pointing it out. We underline that. The Minister has his conversation and he doesn't notice me. I say, Minister, that although you have agreed that this is a draft amendments, we will not be avoiding the storm of new amendments today. We have to stop this story sometime. To have better planning, better planning. I am not saying that it is your responsibility alone. It's just the previous governments. But for how this House legislates, we are all accountable. You've broken every record. First of all, we are positive about the bill. Of course, we have serious reservations about many articles. It regulates the bill some issues of the electricity market, urban issues, issues of the Land register and renews the contract for the concession of the underground warehouse in the region of Kavala, as is the title of the bill. In Article 1, the extension of a period of inaccurate registration to 15 years is legitimate, Minister. Give time to all these people. In some areas, however, particular problems have arisen, such as in the East Attica area and, perhaps, problems which you do not know, such as the failure to register at least seven hundred properties, under the responsibility of the contractor. And these people now are "in the air", literally. The amendment by Mr Karras is in the positive direction and you should see it. You should also see the voice of anguish in the message of the Moroccan Warden Marathon on this particular subject. I imagine you've received it too. They are hundreds of people and in some way we need to regulate this issue. These provisions on the register are certainly in a positive direction. Of course, we disagree very strongly with Article 2. It's the government's maneuvers. You forced the land register lawyers to be dismissed - for the first time, if I am not mistaken, in the history of public administration - their legal status. Some of them left. They went to the market. Now perhaps some people came to you and want to come back. You're asking them to pay the compensation. All this does not show a design. And, in any case, of the sixty of you had arranged for the twelve to maintain their legal capacity, while the remaining forty-eight not. These provisions had been commented on. In Article 3, we will definitely say 'yes', because it is the Greek state's obligation to speed up, stand a sick man, to help move the lignite areas to the new era. However, you do not specify any specific amounts. You do not make specific commitments, Minister, as to how these areas will be strengthened. Last year, fifteen New Democracy MPs had visited the regions of Western Macedonia and we discussed in detail the institutions there. It is a strong demand and it is right to demand that these areas be strengthened for their transition. The New Democracy will support it over time until this transition to local economies is completed. In Article 4 we have reservations. We would like to vote for all this change, because it facilitates the collection chain for this fee. But as usual, the government badly thinks in the same article puts other provisions. So, Minister, what does the change in the fee collection chain have to do with the secondments of PPC employees at the end of the article? That is why we are aiming at 'the present'. We have a reservation. Article 5 refers to the determination of the value of the buildings. Instructs the Minister to determine the value of the properties. Your partners tell us there are some mechanisms. We don't doubt it. In any case, the value of the property must be determined in order to join energy upgrade programmes. A radical renovation is considered the one covering 25% or more interventions. We ask for some clarification on the mechanism. It was not said in committee. We believe that with your present position you will also explain to us about the mechanism to determine the property value, which will be yours. In Article 6, we are positive. The authorisation procedure of RES stations participating in competitive tendering procedures is amended. We also consider that it is reasonable to extend the definitive binding offers provided in PV. We consider it necessary to regulate Article 7, as it is expected that the owners of the RES stations will be given the opportunity to obtain a significant part of the costs of the specific Polypotamos project - New Makri. So we will support this article. We have serious reservations about Article 8. Article 9 gives a very small prolongation to farmers with net metering which, for health reasons or other reasons, had lost deadlines. I also told you to the committees, Minister, that the extension is a few days until 31 December.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u38	Can you take it until 31 March, as was the case last year?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u39	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u40	We are talking about farmers, Mr Papadopoulos. In Article 10 we have reservations. Article 11, which makes it easier for residents of buildings for repairs from fire-fighting areas, etc. We will vote for it because we must strengthen them. With regard to Article 12, while having some positive forecasts, we need to point out that this is the second time that is being extended. And you know, when all issues are given extension, extension, extension, does not indicate that public administration works, otherwise. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And in Article 13, despite the fact that we want to say 'yes', Minister, because it says here about abolishing fines for fire-fighting areas, and so on, we must certainly make it easier for them. You come and put three or four provisions in the same article and I tell you one example: for small-scale work, someone who is part of the 'Security II' programme, saves fines. The next door apartment, which is not part of any program, is considered an offender and pays the fines. There are some other provisions that are problematic. Time is not enough to analyse them in full. Article 14, too. Bring the bypass of land uses for building health units or training units. This provision can create monstrous turbulences in the future. They may come privately in small tourist areas to violate land uses, build competitive centres. We are not against investment, Minister - to know it - but we are against distortion of competition, other conditions for one another, other conditions for the other. It speeds up and facilitates, we recognize it, but we will say "residents" and look at how you will clarify it, because the two divorcing conditions it sets out are the existence of an orbital plan before 1923 or an orbital plan in a settlement of less than two thousand inhabitants or one or the other. But there they will certainly infiltrate other issues if you do not clarify it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u41	I'll make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u42	In Article 15 we are negative. Of course, Mr President, it is not enough time to refer to either an outline for each article. They are twenty-two articles and we will eventually be able to announce the title of each article and what it is about. In Article 16, we realise that the financing of the island interconnection is being concealed, so we see it positively. And Article 17 provides for the provision of memoranda of the relevant Ministries with the Ministry of Culture on archaeological research and studies, moving in the positive direction and promoting the cooperation of the Ministries. This is a wish for all Greeks, not ours, Minister, to finally see the Ministries cooperate on all issues. But, you know, everyone wishes it, you legislate it now, but it never happens. Articles 18 and 19 relate to the settlement of Anargis. We are 'in favour' clearly. These people must be restored. In fact, the New Democracy will perhaps also table an amendment to get rid of HUNGARY. They've lost their homes. They live in houses that PPC has hired. Houses have cracks, unsuitable for dwelling and use. More generally, these people should not be paid for. With Article 20, Mr Minister, for the most part - third or fourth time I think - an extension of the prosecutions for the FIFG and so on. In the logic of prolongation, we will be unsatisfactory. Article 21 on the possibility of the Renewable Energy Centre being positive because its role is certainly important. And in Article 22 on contract, we have also explained to the committees that it is a work that is beneficial and economically and economically and geostrategically. Of course, you extend the contract which expired on 23 November with the private and you do well, because the maintenance costs of the Greek public must not be borne by the Greek State. However, an asset has been granted, we want to believe in the TAPD, in order to exploit and rekind our poor finances, to help us. That's what's stalling. The procedures should have gone faster. Generally, it's a project of great geopolitical importance, you know. With the existing pipelines there, with the possibility of creating a regasification station in Alexandroupolis, it is a project that comes to button on a group of projects that strengthen the country and eastern Macedonia geopolitically and energyly. Thank you and I will come back to secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr Bukkoro, rapporteur of the New Democracy. Mr Georgios Arvanitidis has the floor. Here, Mr Arvanitides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's technical tensions between the government and the Civilian Reconciliation Officer in the budget debate show how unacceptable the two of them are. People's crowns on the one hand, authoritarian behaviors and superstitions on the other, gave and took to well-known shadows between SYRIZA and New Democracy. A small bipartisan struggling to be big with hectolitres. None of them understood anything over the years of the crisis. They did not realize that these practices were the ones that led Greek citizens to turn the political world away. They didn't realize that was how the country lost credibility. SYRIZA and the New Democracy have the luxury of fighting today, because our party kept the country up when it had to, when the urgent bills were really urgent, Minister, to come to our bill today. It was not a contract ratification, some scorpion settings, and let us also take some extensions of time to baptize as urgent a bill. I also heard your arguments in committee. And you and Mr Katameros have made an honest effort to justify your way of functioning and legislating, charging it in bad handling. The argument was that "there are arrangements that are necessary to be made, why are you telling us that we are making a mistake in the procedure?" This account we have spent four years on it now, and I think you should improve it, because in the end, unfortunately, you are underestimating our intelligence, especially those of the Members who lived in this Chamber and in the stone years, when others were across the street. And it is not only the badly understood urgent procedure, but you are also bringing a whole bunch of ministerial amendments with an election perfume. Regarding the bill, therefore, after this budget, the expansionist, the memorandum, unfortunately, as I told you in committee, you were unable to extend in 2018, to fit all the legislative loose ends that you have been open to. We had to get to nothing but one to get a stitch of arrangements, without a hearing of institutions. Why would that be? What prevented you from bringing it before, and for a month now you have announced that it was a ready contract? You have therefore decided to bring in a string of different regulations, which have been announced several times by you. You are right, you have told the committee that you are very detailed, especially in the presentations of your policies, but the problems and the deadlines for having accumulated dangerously for the land register, for energy, for urban, environmental and even for this very convention. While we should be discussing in detail, for example, in relation to the use of underground gas storage and the role of HICP in this, you choose fast, fast track procedures to extend the contract. And it is a contract which, Mr Kamaterre, these previous, the 'bads', must remind you that with an energy minister Vangelis Venizelos, we have launched in Prinos the only look that is in operation in the country, with the participation of workers. These are to remember how there were real choices in the country, giving it the right to design its new energy future. I would like, Minister, to warn you, and I urge you to commit before us today that in 2019 we will not open in the same way, as you have accumulated a lot of your issues, not to run back fast track lately. You have before you the DEPA, the IGME. Of course you are not allowed to choose again in these last-minute processes, because we will still have problems to deal with. I told you and the committee that it happened to you that you were dealing with very serious issues at this time with great borderlines. So let us do it in this Chamber with the necessary seriousness. The energy sector does not deserve such a treatment, a treatment characterised by delays and procrastination, not to say clandestine, with continuous extensions to the timetables, which are not respected. As I have said to the committee, because the bill contains many technical regulations, I will stand politically and in some latest developments, which are directly or indirectly related to what is being regulated here today. Then I will only make a few points about the articles of the bill. I will begin, as in committee, on the subject of the interconnection between Crete and the Eurasia Interconnector, which, as I have pointed out, you actually acknowledged yesterday that it was covered by Articles 16 and 21. So the questions remain. Who's going to fund the connection? Will the project be of common interest or not? Who's responsible for the delays? Will it be ready in time, or will we still be running at the last minute? More generally, how does the upgrading of the networks go ahead, small and large? This is a public opportunity today to tell us your views. With regard to blackouts, will winter and summer continue by the end of the year, Minister? Yesterday we still had the northern and southern suburbs of Athens on power breaks. If you have an image, we would ask you to let us know. The second very important issue is the transition to the post-linguistic era of decades of lignite. Here, Minister, let me say that we need to formulate policies, focusing on this issue positively rather than negatively, with an optimistic look, seeing what these regions have to gain and not what they are losing. This approach to social cohesion and the acceptance by residents of these areas of any design is very important. Unfortunately, here too, we see a short-sighted logic. A short-term and non-planned action for the post-living period for the years 2019 and 2020 is foreseen. This is not a long-term planning that these areas need to feel that something positive may arise. We plan and believe that the transition of these areas should be completed by 2030, regardless of whether some lignite plants remain in operation in 2030 or not. So I asked you, too, for more specific information on each region, Kosani, Florina, Megalopolis. You mentioned, if I recall, a sum of EUR 60 million for all the regions over the next two years. Specialize it. Tell us what you're planning and in which area. I think that this transition plan in the post-liner age should also be reflected in the national energy and climate plan. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will also use the time of my dentistry, Mr President. The commitment of the country to the energy transition must be clear and must be social and, of course, linked to national geopolitical interests. I say this, Minister, in relation to just the earlier announcements by the Turkish Atomic Energy Authority, which granted limited authorisation to a Turkish nuclear power company which manages the individual station in Akugiou, and I think it is a very important issue to which you could make the Greek side public or its approach public. The third issue is the question of the DESA and the DEPA. In a week's time it comes and is supposed to have completed the transfer of the shares in the ICCAT and at the beginning of the new year you will bring a draft law for the ICCAT. Yesterday, workers in state gas companies had a strike on this matter and the knot has arrived at the tennis. The employment status of contract workers has not yet been cleared up. We do not know your intentions to sign a collective labour contract for permanent workers before transferring the shares. I assume you're expecting to consult our national representative of energy, Mr. Petsiti. I'll see you on Friday. Today I want to discuss an Oxford climate, as the Prime Minister said, and I expect concrete answers to the three central political issues that I have raised in the energy sector. As far as the individual regulations of the bill are concerned, I believe that Mr Karras is right in Articles 1 and 2. It has tabled an amendment for even more rational and objective regulation of the question of the deadline for bringing proceedings for twenty years. I have a personal appreciation for the development of the property register in the local area, if you like. This time it's happening. We have not even reached 50%, after all the extensions and all the dates have been exhausted. Even 50% of people have not submitted their supporting documents to the Registry. This is something very serious. There are many obligations that arise as a result of all this development. I think you should look particularly at this and adopt Mr Karras' amendment for twenty years. I must also tell you that I will vote'representations' in these articles, because there are strong concerns about the correctness of the provisions, as formulated, and also about the ministerial view in Article 2. Article 3 introduces the levying of the 3% fee for over 20 MW and over 400 acres. I asked you to the committee, and I am waiting for an answer. It is understandable and you are right to make this arrangement, but in cases where the 400 acres add up to the 400 acres of small owners who are 400 acres and are much smaller their own parks, they are also concerned, because that would be particularly unfair. With regard to Articles 6, 7 and 8 on extensions of authorisations for RES and SITU projects, the question remains as to which projects these extensions relate. I asked you to give us a list, if possible, in order to finally understand what need is to impose this extension. In Article 14 you will have to look very carefully at the objections to the unconstitutionality of the report of the Scientific Council of Parliament and the clarifications it proposes. I fear that, while there is good intention on your part, this regulation can actually be blocked. Article 18 entrusts the Region of Western Macedonia with the process of expropriation of settlements in Ammonio because of the landslides that had taken place two years ago, a subject for which I had tabled a question for you. The question is whether there is a specific time commitment on when the CSM will be issued, so that the problem can be addressed immediately. With regard to the amendments, I would like to talk about an amendment on the matter of the Ministry of Labour. I wish Mr Petropoulos was here, and I think he should have come, because the reduction resulting from personal differences - and that is right - is likely to cause severely reduced sums to the AACC and to the EEAC. Because the report by the General Accounting Office of the State does not mention what these remaining amounts will be in relation to the AAGE and the EOPYY, I think that Mr Petropoulos should come to Parliament and say what they are and how they will be covered. I close by wishing, Minister, in 2019 to come with better planning for the government on your behalf. I hope both you and the New Democracy have received the right signals as to how political confrontation should be made from now on. Be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u45	Thank you for the special speaker from the Democratic Association, Mr Arvanitides. I would ask Mr Shahinides and Mr Vardalis for a small change in order to lead Mr Katsikis, who has another parliamentary obligation and has to leave. Do you agree, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u46	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u47	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President, and colleagues for granting priority. Heavy reasons have caused my decision to beg for that. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after the vote yesterday on the first Memorandum of Understanding, the positions of the Independent Greeks for their cooperation with SYRIZA are vindicated. The way out - step by step from the economic crisis was and is for us one of our election commitments, which is now being implemented. In this direction we are moving. We are currently continuing our work and we are continuing to regulate and improve the legislative framework, as is seen in the current draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. For the strict content of this draft law, I will not make a detailed report, ladies and gentlemen, as I believe that adequate explanations have been given at the previous meeting to the responsible Committee on Production and Trade by the Minister himself, Mr Stathakis. The proposed provisions in the energy sector, such as the abolition of the fee for supplier, the abolition of the lignite fee, the reduced charges for the specific emission reduction in the electricity bills paid by farmers and industries, as well as the support for a transition to a new model, less polluting local economies based on lignite extraction to date, I believe that it is necessary for them to be established so that the country can move forward. Changes in the same philosophy concern the extension of the deadline for the submission of declarations, of the professional farmers, as well as the extensions given for the settlement of arbitrary constructions. In particular, for the latter, I believe that the extension granted until 31 December 2019 to the validity of the land repair permits for earthquake-stricken and firefighting areas, as well as the extension by three years of the validity of building permits and building permits issued and expired from 1 March 2016 to 31 December 2018, are measures that are fair and enforced. Socially just, also imperative solution is given to the problem of the settlement of Anargyri of the Municipality of Amyntaios in Florina, through Articles 17 and 18. We are all aware of the problems created after the mine was slashed, which took place on June 10, 2017, and has resulted in the settlement of part of the village of Anargyroi and damage to the roads and networks of the area. The evacuation of the village of Anargyra and the relocation of the inhabitants to another area are the only and appropriate solution for this reason and, through this draft law, the Region of Western Macedonia is defined as a body implementing the expropriation of the settlement of the Municipality of Amydion, through credits from the Public Investment Program, in order to move forward the whole process and our fellow humans to feel safe again by making a new start. Finally, as regards the second part, namely for the South Kavala underground gas storage area, as defined in Article 22 of the draft law, the duration of the ‘South Kavala’ licence is extended until 2020, with the possibility of extending another year and by 23 November 2021, if the contractor so requests and the relevant decision is adopted by the Minister for the Environment and Energy. At the same time, according to the content of the change being validated, in the event that the competitive process to be conducted by the Private Property Response Fund on the granting of the right to use growth and exploitation as a natural gas storage area in the underground natural gas storage area of the South Kavala gas storage area before the end of the operating licence, it will follow - as defined - the particular use. This amendment follows on from the corresponding amendments made to the convention in the past. Indeed, it is the fifth in turn, since the gas deposit "South Kavala" has not been exhausted, its exploitation continues and is functionally linked to the oil deposit of Prinos. In any case, however, there is provision for the use of underground natural space resulting from the almost exhausted South Kavala gas deposit as a gas storage site, which is estimated to contribute to strengthening the country's energy adequacy and wider geographical area in ensuring the necessary strategic reserves and increasing the country's security of supply levels. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Independent Greeks are voting in favour of this draft law in accordance with Article, in principle and as a whole, and the amendments accompanying it, as we see, Mr Minister, that there are technical contingencies and financial management problems and loose ends are resolved on specific issues of responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Katsiki. We're moving on to the list as it is in order. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn Association, Ioannis Sahinides. Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. As I mentioned to the committee, on Article 22, which was mentioned by your co-chairman, the only reason why we did not hear as an excuse is ecological consciousness. After the natural gas space is empty - because of ecological consciousness - you will return back to nature what you get. In this connection, however, with this Article 22 - what was not mentioned - it is a impression that the current co-government that brings about an amending contract between the public and the 'Energean Oil and Gas' and 'Oil Ball'. I say this because in 2013 the first amending contract, SYRIZA and Independent Greeks had requested the withdrawal of the ratification. Mr. Minister, you have strongly criticised the contribution of the Energy Aegean and stressed that this contract means condemning the nightmare of unemployment for hundreds of families of the Kavala Prefecture, the economic ripping of the region and a single oil drip that could be exploited by the Greek State. In fact, the President of the Independent Greeks had denounced the contract illegally, as annulled, that public wealth is sold and specific interests are met, there is no fraudulent and unjust interests. Accordingly, your own speaker at the time of SYRIZA had denounced the intention of the then government of Samaras - Venizelos to serve the interests of ambitious researchers of hydrocarbons and not the interests of the public. This convention demonstrates that, once again, our country is unfortunately a protectorate of Brussels and that we are logically the only state where there are foreign companies which have the exclusive power to do the research, management or the disposal of wealth resulting from the exploitation of the energy deposits - now also with the official involvement of the ICTI. Of course we will vote against. Mr President, I shall not go into the articles. But because we do not know what amendments are to be accepted, the Minister should probably have taken the lead. I shall refer to a specific amendment, Nos 1868 and 211. Keep in mind that you must withdraw the law passed in the draft law incorporating Directive 2014/24 of the European Council and of the European Parliament on 16-4-2018. This was Law 4574 with FEK 192A on 14-11-2018 and had become Article 16. You are coming with this amendment today and you want to regulate matters of responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. You are amending provisions of Law 4071/2012 on the system of governance of TAs. The amendment you had brought in and made the law of the State renounced from the companies of the municipalities all criminal and civil liability for those who had commanded them. If this law is not withdrawn, if you do not abolish it, there is no way that the Golden Dawn will vote in favour of anything that will have to do with the management of municipal businesses, be it water and sewerage, or any other form. This was heard in yesterday's debate and vote on the 2019 budget. Unfortunately, I could not say this in my speech because I did not know that no one would be mentioned by any party. There was something about the retrospective claims that were entirely related to yesterday's debate on the 2019 budget. Yesterday it was discussed for the last day and the 2019 budget was passed. It is a budget which has not in any case financed the financial costs resulting from the financial claims of the retrospectives, which will arise and be added to the existing dangerous decisions of the Council of State, concerning the new actions to be brought. Your Government should decide that you are forced to conflict with lenders, because you have to abolish or otherwise maintain measures of 6 billion euros. If, in fact, the issue of retroactive claims over a longer period of time is raised, the amounts that will arise will no longer be managed by your co-management. This, together with a commitment you have signed, and indeed a statement by Mr Mitsotakis that the Greek state has a constant commitment to primary surpluses of 3.5% by 2022, you can see how much this problem will increase. So you have three categories of retrospective economic contenders. The first relates to the public's presents, the second to the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions and the third to the pension cuts. There is a very serious issue here, however, which must also be answered by you, by your co-government, but also by the optimists of power, of the New Democracy, of the People's Right, as it is being taken, but something that has not been mentioned by the New Democracy in the budget debate: while the seriousness of this issue has been highlighted, as I said before, by the Greek Financial Council, but also by the European Commission, which has hit you repeatedly in the bell, no one mentioned anything in yesterday's debate and the previous days. Indeed, the impression is that the speakers on the New Democracy list were sixty-nine in the number, but no one mentioned this issue. The point, however, is that the next government will be forced to comply with and enforce judicial decisions. We expect you to tell us the truth, exactly what you are hiding today as Co-government, but also the ambitious lovers of power who want to rule, because in your usual practice you will come and tell us again that you have found a burnt land. It is clear here that there is going to be a huge budget deficit. How does it intend, whether your own government or the one that will arise, to cover this deficit? Will you take more measures? Will you bring us any more memos? The only clear solution, therefore, to all this and the only ones who are telling the truth in this Chamber is Golden Dawn. If there is no national government with the Golden Dawn, unfortunately Greece will continue to blame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport ‘State the Amendment Agreement from 31 May 2007 to the Concession Agreement for the Project ‘Study, Construction, Financing, Maintenance and Exploration of the Car of Central Greece (E65)’, ratified by Law 3597/2007 (A'168), as amended: (a) by the 28-11-2013 ‘Agreement amending the Provisions of the Concession Convention’, ratified by Article 2 of Law 4219/2013 ‘Structuring the Concession Agreements and Arrangements of Contributions’ (A'269) and (b) by 19-12-2013 ‘Agreement of the Amendment of the Concession Agreements of 28-11-2013’, We proceed with the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Athanasio Bardalis, for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will begin with an amendment tabled by the Communist Party of Greece concerning the Greek Defence Systems, calling for the amendment of Law 4446/2016, because first of all you know that this company has been found a successor to the previous situation, inheriting large debts and without the possibility of financing from the banking system. The main shareholder is the Greek State. In view of the need for tax and insurance information to continue its operation, which, in our view, is necessary because it is also linked to the country's defence capacity and in order to enable it to continue working, we propose this amendment through the amendment we have tabled and we ask that you accept it. Now, regarding the bill, I would like to say the following. The first and main aim is to incorporate a number of energy-related regulations, with a view, of course, to further promoting the liberalisation of the energy market to make PPC's lignite plants more attractive to the "investors". It draws up the best way with the European framework for competition, but also the national plan for energy and climate, which one could say a lot, of course, but which will be discussed in the next few years, in which the main objectives of energy policy are reflected, to which our country will follow by 2030 and which has been drawn up through dialogue with representatives of the business groups in the energy sector and which meets all their demands. Only to think - I will stand on the bill-related side - that this energy and climate plan limits lignite participation by 2030 to 17% and raises the proportion of RES to 55%. This objective is estimated to attract investments of around EUR 32 billion. So here is the question of the profits of business groups active in this sector. Both the government and the other opposition parties fully agree on this. In the liberalisation of the energy market, the privatisation of PPC's units, in the course of the post-lining period, the opening-up of the way to attract new investments. What should anyone want first? Because the liberalisation of the energy market has not started now. Does everyone claim that green growth, the shift in renewable energy sources, would lead to environmental protection and the improvement of the lives of all of us? That investment will come, we'll have growth, and we'll all have benefits from this growth? Now we have experience. Life has brought many families ahead of the range of energy poverty: high-priced rheumatism, redundancies, contractors, unpaid workers, flexible labour relations, wage cuts and more. On the other hand, there has indeed been a growth in productivity and of course the profits of business groups in energy. After all, the very same thing is happening everywhere in the world and the same is happening in all the countries of the European Union, where liberalisation of the energy market has gone ahead. Here we have arrived, increased energy production and, at the same time, the people's families do not have electricity and heating. The JRC, from the very beginning, revealed this truth. We therefore call on the workers in the industry and also on the Greek people to draw their conclusions from it, using their own experience, to give an answer to the mockery by organising their struggle against the whole framework of liberalisation of the electricity market, because evil is not going to stop here. The Government continues to negotiate with the business groups for the sale of lignite plants and it is unlikely that, in fact, we would say that they will reopen matters for jobs, for the status of industrial relations, in order to make them even more attractive and to proceed with the sale. That is to say, the abolition of the end of lignite is also the facilitation of the sale of lignite. This is a gift of 30 million each year to those who buy lignite units. Reduce lignite activity and swing in the face of the people of western Macedonia and Megalopolitan mirrors and beads. I am referring to the local resource, which will supposedly strengthen the productive reconstruction of these regions to pass into the post-lignary era. This is a resource that you are giving to accepting the people of the region, these regions, your anti-grassroots policy of liberalising the electricity market and the passage to the post-linguistic era. Your aim is to incorporate the people into them precisely the anti-popular objectives, that is, to adopt the goals of business groups as their own objectives and thus achieve them without resistance or with the smallest resistance. You refer to the region's development opportunities, its comparative advantages, hiding that all these projects deliberately ignore the fact that the basic criterion for any investment in any sector of the economy is the maximum profit rate and that the market laws are the ones to determine the desire for investment. This money will therefore go to support - you say -'sustainable' investments, that is, grants again to business groups to invest in other sectors. Of whatever investment is made in these areas, none of them will benefit workers and the people. In the normal operation of the RES competition sector, the abolition of the exemption from PV power producers is also initiated. This is a regulation which facilitates the development of business groups in wind and photovoltaic stations. To conclude - there is no time on the basis of the procedure you have chosen - I would also like to focus on some of the regulations that we consider to be important. Article 17 moves to the logic of unlocking the acceleration of major public works, so that the business of the big businessmen in this sector can be speeded up, so that archaeological findings do not constitute an obstacle. The suspension of the confiscations to the EGMM - and we have also told the committee - for the third time clearly demonstrates the implication of workers and pensioners. First blackmail to compromise workers and pensioners and then postponed from three to three months in order to collect even the rest of the money. You continue your efforts to create a small and flexible HIGH at the service of business groups. Finally, for the contract for the concession of hydrocarbons from the Thrace Sea with the 'KAVAL OIL', we are firmly opposed. The exploitation and storage rights have passed in the hands of the HICP since 2011 for up to fifty years after the authorisation of the underground storage project. This investment, like LNG in Alexandroupolis, is part of the European Union strategy for gradual decommissioning or reducing dependence on Russian gas. The slate gas of the United States enters the game. Like the whole energy game, this investment is part of the overall geopolitical bazaar, and that is why the Americans often declare their lively interest in the ports of Alexandroupolis and Kavala. The interests that conflict here are huge and the scenarios are too many. The prolongation given is precisely the promotion of these projects. On the basis of all the above, we will vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd General High School of Amarousi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let us inform students and students that they are attending a bill discussion session. As you know, in this Chamber, in plenary session, two functions are performed. One is the adoption of laws which are the laws of the State, and the second is parliamentary scrutiny, that is, the government is controlled by Members of all the parties and is obliged to respond by a specific procedure. Today, then, we have the vote of a bill. They speak of MPs from the different parties, and at the end of the procedure there is one vote, and the bill becomes law. Mr. George Amyras, special speaker from the river, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. You have seen, dear students and dear students, how detailed and good President-in-Office we have today at the meeting. It put you in the climate, and now let's come to the scout. Amendments, Mr Minister, amendments. Well, we have five ministerial and seven MPs. I would like to know what you will accept and what you will not accept from the Members of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u56	Now the President will give me time and tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u57	It would make it very easy for me to tell us now which MEPs are simply accepting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u58	He'll then tell us, after Mr. Georgiadis, I imagine.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u59	Why not now? Do you mind, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u60	Of course not. If you want to get the floor for a brief comment, I'll give it to you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u61	All right, I'll call him. However, the debate would have been more efficient if we knew what amendments we would or wouldn't have talked about in their actual dimension. Well, I come to two of the parliamentary amendments. Firstly, the amendment by Mr Karras from the Democratic Partnership on the need to introduce a single 20-year exclusive deadline for properties not declared in the register. We see her positively on the river. And I come to another MEP from a SYRIZA colleague for an extension of the authorisation of shale quarries. Isn't it a little strange in an urgent bill with an amendment to come to such a decision? So it's easy to extend the permits for quarries? I'm not sure she's good or bad. I'm not honest with you. But I refuse to really read it. And I refuse to place myself on the substance, because for a quarry, which is a special case, when the quarry law still does not exist, here we have the same law forty, forty years. Well, no, Minister, I would say this amendment to you that you do not accept it and should come by the normal procedure to discuss it with our calmness and put us in place. Now the'start' amendment of the evening is another. Who is she? It is the amendment that allows direct assignments to projects, supplies, transfer of personnel to take place elections. And this is where we get news. Mr. Stathakis knows when the elections are going to take place, I guess. Mr. Stathakis is laughing. Will you tell us when the elections are going to take place? You don't know?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u62	I know about primary school.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u63	For primary school, I know how to tell you. I have to tell you when the European elections will take place. You tell us when the MPs will be. In any case, it was a Memorandum of Understanding, these three-scare memoranda had forced the Greek state not to proceed directly with the procurement of materials, contracts and so on for the election cycle and the election process. We got out of the memorandum, you tell us the first Memorandum of Understanding and the first one you did to get away from the Memorandum of Surveillance is to allow direct awards. 'No' we say in this amendment. And now I come to the draft law, which has it all, and it's a good thing where we're talking about it. He's got a little of everything, it's like a pretty pebble somewhere in the Cyclades. Well, he's got ways of registering, provisions for energy, provisions for town planning, other provisions, and a ratification contract for Kavala and underground tanks there. So we have a set of unrelated provisions. As far as renewable energy is concerned, the arrangements are a little too daunty, in general the framework of operation and the introduction of rules are problematic for this activity. For the register, what to say should have been solved for many years and we will have agreed on that. For urban and arbitrary, here you have the applied cooked recipe, i.e. extensions, changes in time without justification, time-consuming demonic procedures. I am tired in these few years that I am a Member of Parliament to see the governments on the one hand saying: "Outside the arbitrary" and on the other hand to bring in a series of amendments, regulations and others that serve the logic of arbitrary construction. We in the river will vote 'no' in all these arbitrary provisions. I come now - because time is going through because of the urgency procedure - to some questions and I have said them in committee too. Dear Minister, I come to Article 2, on the register, for the appointment of President, Director-General and Board members by ministerial decision. You have not answered the criteria for this position, the evaluation criteria. We in the Potami, believe that anyone who is being run by the wider or narrow public sector should be able to enter on meritous criteria and have the opportunity to have equal access to such a responsibility for all citizens. Now, Article 3 concerns the setting-up of a Committee on Dispute Settlement and the establishment of a Committee on Objections on the percentages of revenues resulting from the trade in unreserved emissions of pollutants. On what criteria does the Minister define the members, the secretaries and the chairmen of these committees? You're not giving me an answer to the previous session. I come to Article 4, for PPC staff and its subsidiaries. The secondment, it tells us this article, to public bodies from PPC, is considered a real service in an organic position. I also asked you at the committee meeting, but I did not get an answer, and I hope you will answer me now. How many of these PPC employees are seconded to other positions and in what positions? Are they also seconded to political offices, ministerial offices or MPs? Please answer that. You are also taking the time with Article 10 to apply for a permit for an independent gas system, which, instead of eighteen months, will take it to twelve. It's positive. The report does not write anything. I would like some clarification on that. With you I'm at it, the sooner the better. I now come to Article 16 for a grant from IPTO from national or Community resources. There is an vague use of this money. In your reply to the same question I had raised at the committee meeting, you said that this grant was made for the management of services of general public interest. More unclear, you're becoming Barofalis. I would specifically like you to tell us about the PPC and IPTO grant, in addition. On what criteria will the use of money be made? Where are these money going and for what reason? I remind you that PPC has to cover the huge debts of its customers, 2.8 billion euros late. PPC is more "red" than the red color itself. And it is under investigation that PPC and its administration, because in the first half of 2017 it had profitable data, but finally it proved that there was a great loss of EUR 249.5 million. That's what I had to tell you about the bill. We're positive. I told you who we're not going to vote on. What has to do with arbitrary decisions is not to vote on them. We're going to vote against it. And for the rest, we'll put an article with the article. I would like some answers to these very specific questions that I have raised to you again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u64	The Minister for the Environment and Energy, George Stathakis, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we have two sections of issues that come in the form of urgency, first and foremost because there is a matter of time, I mean the end of the year, and a number of these regulations need to be covered. Secondly, there are changes that we want to implement from 1-1-2019. A large part of these regulations - and I will then be given the opportunity to confirm that - were in a process of and approval by the European Union and the Commission, and at the same time are arrangements which emerge from the institutional framework and from the major changes that have been made in the field of energy and spatial planning. These two sections are, in essence, and the measures we take. I will start from the energy sector and the big, the most important changes that come with these regulations. Most of these measures had already been announced, that is, they had been put into the public debate and were well-known. I start from the most important and most important, the abolition of the supplier fee and the abolition of the end of lignite. As you know, the special EIA account has now been fully refined. It is recalled that in 2015 we received it with very large deficits. We will continue to disagree with Mr. Maniotis on the exact amount. We say that 700 million was the deficit in 2015, Mr. Maniotis downloads it to 300 million, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u66	It was 166 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u67	The substance, however, remains that in 2015 the present government had a dilemma on how to close this deficit. It would either increase the EMCDDA, that is to say the charge for consumers, or introduce a new institution, the institutions of the end of the supplier, and this gap would be mainly covered by suppliers. There was a fear that they would move it to consumers, but the electricity prices did not increase in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. On the contrary, they were reduced to an average of 6% in two consecutive years. Therefore, the measure worked without the consumers being charged and has now balanced the specific account of the RES and I would remind you, having reduced the repayment period of the RES producers from the ten months we found them at three. In other words, within the ninety days now, marginally, the money is paid to the RES producers, solving another major problem. Today we are pleased to abolish the terminal supplier. This will have many benefits to everyone, of course, in the energy sector, PPC that will acquire an additional liquidity of 200-225 million and of course will create additional security, I repeat, on the ELA account. We are abolishing the lignite fee, which was introduced in 2012 and represents EUR 2 per MWh. At the same time, we are moving forward with another arrangement concerning the shape of reduced debts in the EMFF. Incidentally, today has been approved by the Commission in the shape of EMEPAR. So what we are voting on will apply from 1-1-2019. Today is the approval of the new shape of EMFF - I am tabling it for the Minutes - which maintains a special aid scheme for reduced EMFF for a large part of the country's productive sector, farmers, industries, etc. This new scheme is adopted by the regulation we are doing today. The official ministerial decision will come out in the next few days after the adoption to resolve this matter. [[At this point, the Minister, George Stathakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now, the National Fair Transfer Fund is our third point. Here, as you know, it's about his funding. It is not the only tool for the post-liner period, but it is an important step. I would remind you that on the basis of the regulations that exist here, a reserve will be set up based on about 6% of the order of 60 million in the first three years. In other parts of the articles, I would like to stand by for 3% of the photovoltaics with the large wind parks. It is a regulation that we are introducing. Therefore, large photovoltaics will also pay 3% for local communities just while maintaining equal competition mainly in the competitions, which I recall are separate wind and separate photovoltaics, but now are common competitions regardless of whether they are photovoltaic or windy. So 3% is an equal treatment for the two technologies. There are several extensions of regulations concerning the energy sector. I won't stand on them. Professional farmers are given little prolongation. I repeat that they have already received a great deal of prolongation. Farmers want a 'click' to get their compensation. They have to. I would remind you that no further extension should be granted. It's a key point. They've taken several extensions. If there are any issues, they must now be dealt with immediately. There is no possibility of further extensions. One last amendment, which is important, concerns the fee-paying fee for RES. These were never given. They were granted in 2016 and 2017 for the 2010-2014 period, the first ones. This is where precise topics related to delimitation are identified and clearly specified in which communities the money is distributed within the municipality. I shall turn to a final point raised by many speakers. It concerns how the value of the real estate unit is calculated to qualify for a renovation as a radical one. Here, in fact, it refers to a ministerial decision. The target is energy, it's not spatial or other. That's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u68	The mechanism?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u69	What does this mechanism actually say? He's going out on a ministerial decision. Interestingly, the value of the building resulting from building costs, the use of the building, the useful area, the marginal costs of radical renovation, the costs equal to 25%, the renovation costs of building shells, the cost of renovating technical building systems, maximum renovation costs and so on. This is therefore a parametric equation, which introduces the five - six main factors, in order to determine this way. I repeat, the target is energy. I'm going into the field of spatial planning. Let me remind you that the basic changes here concern some arrangements for the register. We are not going to reopen the debate on the lawmakers in the register, I think it is over. It concerns issues that are being imposed. The large section relates to the arbitrary compliance protocol. Essentially, practically with the existing legislation and fines, as they exist, the choice of someone who made arbitrary after 2011, or someone who has arbitrary that is not part of the law on identification is one: to demolify it. This protocol of conformity, therefore, actually introduces the process by which the self-destructuring protocol is to take place. As a result, all the burdens will be erased on the particular property resulting from its arbitrary nature. Apparently, there are special cares for the firefighting areas. There are also some arrangements for those who had joined the previous arbitrary law and had requested that they be incorporated electronically, since they are now being made electronically in the law on the identification of arbitrary persons. But, as you all know, since October 15, all Greeks now electronically issue the permits for their real estate, for homes they will build, for anything. So, wherever in Greece and build, they enter the electronic system and import the license details of the building and the license is issued electronically. In the first month of application we have a record of electronic licences, which seemed impossible. The Greek citizen no longer needs to go to town to license his building with anything that that implies - I suppose only good. Now, I will dwell on some other articles, because issues have been raised and I will incorporate some comments. Arrangements for building education and health buildings. I have listened very carefully to the comments made by the rapporteur of the New Democracy. I think we will add the term 'public utilities in education and health', which resolves this issue. As you know - we will not reopen the debate now on the major interconnection, it is a clarification - after the division of the industry is financed from national and Community resources for the management of services of general public interest and the Public Investment Programme. In other words, the small interconnection of Crete, which was signed by the Convention now, is done by IPTO and has ECU 25%, the European Investment Bank and so on. The IPTO has been kept under public control, as you know. 51% remained in public. We overthrowded the privatisation that existed before, which was mostly private. So IPTO proceeds with high speed and high efficiency along with the strategic investor and will continue to do so. We estimate that in 2024 IPTO will be exactly twice as much value and function as it was in 2015. We are talking about a very long extension and I also answer the questions of the development of infrastructures for electricity connections. The 'CYCLADES I' competition' was signed, the small interconnection ended, the competition of 'CYCLADON II' will be opened for the competition of 'CYCLADES III' and the large interconnection, I think we are now ready and very close to the first quarter of 2019 to declare the great interconnection of Crete. These are projects of enormous importance. For the Ministry of Culture there is, I think, a great consensus. The Region of Western Macedonia undertakes to speed up all procedures for the settlement of the Anargyra there is a great consensus. For the IGM, I reiterated this in committee, we have found a regulation whereby 100% of the retired people who claimed have signed and accepted the proposal to compensate them with 60% of their claims and conditional on their judicial claims being withdrawn. I repeat 100% has consented. I think it's too much of a condition for retired people to be blackmailed. It was a reasonable solution, which was finally accepted by all sides. For the CAPE, there is a consensus. I shall end with the amendments that are accepted. Let's go to Amendment No 1862 by Mr Balomenaki. Apart from being Haniotis, and I can't deny my neighbor... [[Laughers in the Chamber]] ...it is essentially about an extension, especially for cooperatives issued by the relevant decentralised administrations, that no overall urban plan has been approved in these areas, FCL, has substantially changed the urban data of these areas and there is still a need to build them up. It is essentially an extension to complete the urban studies by building cooperatives. I would remind you that we have had a record of approval in the last three years, and a large part of them have been unlocked, good studies have been taken, approved and moved on. I think that an extension, to complete others who are ready, is good and positive. Of course, many building cooperatives still have problems, forests and others, which are not solved, so what could go ahead and what can be done today, let us get an extension. The second amendment I accept concerns an amendment by the SYRIZA Member, Mr Kamaterou, to our rapporteur. What is this amendment actually doing? It is the amendment with a general number of 1863, which gives an extension of the deadline and an exercise to correct inaccurate first entry into the register for three more months for the areas that were registered before 2006 and the initial fourteen-year period said in 2018. Here our principle was fourteen years plus one year. One of them was fourteen years plus nine months. We are basically restored and say fourteen years plus a year for this charge. Therefore, Amendment No 1863 is accepted. The third amendment is Amendment No 1872. A period of one year is given to the slate quarries to comply with the new licensing framework. As you know, the new Code has come out, the new legislation on minerals and quarries. So the quarantine law is modern. They haven't adapted. These activities are mainly of Karystos. It'll take a year of extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u70	Is she a parliamentarian?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u71	She's a parliamentarian. The proposing Members are: Pratsolis, Aristotle, Apostle, Emmanoulidis, Lebanon, Morfidis, Papaphilipos. Ladies and gentlemen, the next amendment wants your attention, because it is important. This is Amendment No 1873. It comes from the MP of SYRIZA Mr. Dimitriadis and enables the staff to be moved from the separated companies and is at the stage of disinvestment in the lignite plants in Megalopolis and Florina. It gives the opportunity to move staff from these companies to PPC and the DEDO, voluntarily and with the agreement of the administrations of the two companies. This amendment is made as part of the disinvestment process of course and allows workers at their request...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u72	All those who want it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u73	I think my position was clear. They have the right to apply and to...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u74	What are the hosts going to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u75	The transfer is co-decided by PPC and DEDDI. They're accepted. I move on to those who are not accepted. The amendment under number 1861 of the Greek Defence Systems MPs is not accepted. This is an issue that I do not have official information on. Furthermore, the proposal, although we agree on the substance, is not acceptable to exempt the buildings affected by natural disaster. It is Amendment No 1855, if I read it well, by Mr Antoniadis and Mr Kasapidis. It's a legitimate request. It has already been transferred and is being examined by Mrs Papanatsiou's office and the Independent Public Income Authority. It is therefore legitimate, but we expect it to be completed through this procedure and not by an amendment. It is also unacceptable to extend a period of fourteen years, plus one year, from 15 years. It is the amendment by Mr Carras number 1856. In twenty-five years, as you know, it is more than sufficient to settle the property issues of citizens and the public - I repeat - after the end of realisation. So, we suggest we remain in the bill as it stands, which is fifteen years old. I think I said it all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Stathakis. I would say that we can go to the speakers with the first speaker Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis from SYRIZA. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is urgent and the main reason for urgency is because it is essentially a part of the provision and actions of the Ministry of Energy, which was preparing for a single bill focusing on geothermality, but the reasons of time and need for governance require that this bill be abstracted in its present form to prevent certain dates and certain issues relating to direct governance and running and, as you know, the issue of energy is a lot. And there is a lot because, first of all, we have inherited a series of distortions and, secondly, there are the needs of a new field in the European Union, an area of competition in the European Union, and our country and production processes in energy must be adapted in this direction. Therefore, the extension and acceleration of procedures on a number of problems of the day-to-day governance of energy issues is imperative and, therefore, this bill is also a set of articles in various sections. These sections concern, firstly, the extension of building permits by three years, a more favourable regulation on urban health and education buildings, where the Minister added that we will make the clarification of 'public buildings' so that there are no misunderstandings. Recently, we have had the confirmation, namely that the European Union agrees with the new TIMEAR scheme. It is about the National Fair Transfer Fund, to which I shall refer in particular below, and the payroll from RES to municipalities and communities, that is to say, clarifications on this issue. An article which is of two importance, and I would like to start with that, is what it is about transferring the right, since, of course, the money from the Public Investment Programme - it is about 2018 - is about urgency, because we need to catch up - from the PPP to the West Macedonia Region to deal with the issue of forced expropriation of the municipality of Amydium. It is both an example and an important one, because firstly it speeds up the process of taking the money, but at the same time it enables - and one example - regional self-government and the West Macedonia region to operate in a decentralised way, in terms of direct democracy and to demonstrate once again the region of Western Macedonia and, more generally, the regions of the country to be able to take a series of action to facilitate direct democracy and the service of citizens in matters of governance. So this double benefit is satisfied. We have from a rapid execution, that is, much more quickly, people will get their money and we have decentralisation on governance issues. Since we are in the field of lignite, we are also taking a second initiative, which resolves a specific issue of forced expropriation, the forced expropriation of the Pantokomi community of the Municipality of Kozani this time, which will be relocated to a specific site and therefore we need a regulation and that is what we do with this Article 19, so that the beneficiaries can be declared so that before the final decision of the decentralised administration is taken. When the decentralised administration decides definitively, it will then be possible to make a second draw and to satisfy all the beneficiaries as regards their periodicity. On the Greek issue, and I still have an additional initiative, which concerns - in the context of the removal of distortions all of this - the lignite fields and the fact that the end of lignite is now being imposed, precisely to put lignite where it deserves competition and not to have any additional burdens and costs more and ultimately the domestic consumer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I shall conclude. The second is that in return for this very procedure and for the correction of distortions, a 3% energy charge is imposed on large RES investments, which have so far been excluded from this process and have therefore not favoured competition. In short, we have a series of small interventions and rules which facilitate the single area of competition, facilitate the single market for energy and facilitate competition on equal terms and on equal terms. I promised to say this in my speech - I will say a few words because the time has elapsed - that the national fair transition fund that we established and planned at first stage within three years to allocate a sum of 60 million, resulting from the savings and good management that we have made on the issues of EPE, gives us the assurance that, together with those provided for in the 2130 PPP programme for greenhouse gas emissions, we will have a significant amount, which will support actions for those areas that have lignite production, namely, so that the switching of the carbon flow economy to new economic activities, be more smooth, fairer and have greater potential for sound and fair growth. One point concerning my region, Mr President, is the fact that an amendment has been tabled by Members of the New Democracy for the ENPI of the people of Anargyra. It is something that we have anticipated for six months, because it is actually about the ENPIA in 2018. It's about the current year. He's already on...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u78	Why are you bringing it today?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u79	I'll tell you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u80	Identify something to us, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u81	It is a pleasant initiative on legal grounds. That's exactly what I'm explaining. We have already adopted it for a period of six months, because it is at the AIA, precisely to implement it. In any case, because the AIA is an independent authority, we are here to take a joint initiative if this need is not met. But I'll tell you something. In the process of both settlements - i.e. Saints Anargyri and Pantokomi - dozens of popular assemblies have been held in matters concerning real problems, important assumptions concerning literally the life and future of the inhabitants of these communities. In these procedures, people today - never too late - who seem to be very keen and suddenly interested, have never been involved. It is never too late and it is pleasant yet that we agree that legal actions should be taken to resolve these problems...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u82	The ministries were pushing, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Demetriadis. Mr Konstantinos Katsafadas from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, all the previous days during the budget debate, the SYRIZA parliamentary group was trying to convince us that we had spent a memorandum phase. You have all said that the new budget is the first budget, which is free from the memorandum. The tactic you are following, however, is the same as that you followed during the memorial period. And to explain, Minister, I cannot understand how it is possible in the urgency procedure to bring in a bill that his title has nothing to do with reality. Because what it has to do with the contract, it employs few articles, while all the other articles are a stitch and a box of loose ends, from amateur legislative initiatives, which you have taken in the past, and let me say that there is an intense fragrance and service and rhetoric, but also from normal situations, which are the result of your own management. Unfortunately, however, Minister, this effort you are making, we see that it will not end. Of course, Mr Kamaeros, who is not here at this moment in the Chamber, when he took the floor, asked why we are making noise and saying that this procedure should not be stopped, that at the time the budget is being discussed, we should have a committee that is, if you would like, the upper parliamentary procedure of the year and bring in a bill with so many different issues and he wondered, as if he were not here during the previous parliamentary term of 2012 to 2015, when we, when the country had to stand on its feet, brought drafts to the urgency procedure, Mrs Constantopoulos, your former comrade with Mr. Lafazianis was revolutionary. That's the reality. In studying this bill, then, all we can see is that it is a bill that is a broom, because it is trying to resolve issues which, as I said, and at the beginning of my position, are due to you. It therefore contains issues from the stock register and regulations on arbitrary issues, even issues relating to arrangements for the end of the PVs, the end which you have imposed, the end of lignite and a number of issues which are irrelevant to the convention that we should discuss. In fact, Minister, when we were telling you that it is a amateur way of creating problems as you legislated on the property register, you disagreed. May I ask the Observatory what it has to do with the arbitrary? Have commissions been commissioned? Let me tell you that for Hydra - because I am speaking with examples - through this whole procedure of committees and subcommittees, which you have done, we have told you that it is very difficult for them to be served, at the moment a building permit cannot be issued. And because you went out and celebrated that we are now electronically issuing building permits, who did you get this from? Was it ready in 2015 through the Technical Chamber to be done? Are you three years late, Minister? And why did this delay take place? Apparently, because of your ideas. That's the reality. What it has to do - to talk about a number of issues, which we consider need to be of particular attention, and we also want some clarification on them - with Article 5, Minister, authorizing the Minister for the Environment and Energy, to define how the value of the building or building unit is calculated to characterise a renovation as a radical renovation, as well as every other detail. As our rapporteur, Mr Bukoros, said, 25% of the building's value in order to put a radical renovation of the building, should be determined by a ministerial decision. You told us there was a mechanism. You don't explain him to us. I would like to believe that in your dentext - because in your protology I have listened very carefully, you have not mentioned it - you will explain to us what this mechanism is and how it is to be done. For Rule 14, which we had once again touched on to you in committee, but also at the beginning of the debate today, we are partly covered by the addition to what you are doing with the public, but we should see whether it covers and when a citizen goes to Skopje, that is, whether there can be state coverage on it. I think you should see it from a legal point of view, so that we do not have any other problems. It's about the Florina Rear Deer community, twenty months you've been late, Minister. That's the reality. Twenty months, these people are afflicted. Unfortunately, your reflexes were not what they should have been for all these citizens, who have suffered all this suffering for twenty months, after the flooding. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me for a minute, Mr President. It's not Mr. Dimitriadis in the Chamber who talked about mobilizations and all that. I don't know, the SYRIZA MPs, when they go to the people's assemblies, have a attendance list and get absence from who other colleagues are at these gatherings or are they not? I don't understand that. There is an amendment here, Minister, which is socially just. Is it possible for anyone to pay for a property that is damaged, for a property that is not operational or for a rural business? And we sit down and talk and say, we talk to the independent authority, let's see? When it comes to another rumble, however, there are neither independent authorities nor anything else, there is the right request of our political friend. That reality. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] In conclusion, we obviously agree with what has to do with the contract, which is between the Greek State and the companies for the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the maritime area of the Thracian Pelagos. We believe that this increases geopolitically and economically the wider region of Macedonia and Greece still. We think that this space can also be found in relation to the TAP, but also with the other pipelines to create a strong polo for investment and development in the area. We believe, of course, - because these were things that were initiated by the previous government - that the region is actually being upgraded and that the region of Eastern Thrace can be a place, a region that can be a serious regulator of what has to do with energy in all the Balkans. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President, and thank you very much for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Katsafandos. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Zaroulia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u87	Thank you. Last night, listening to Mr Tsakalotou's speech, I can only agree with him on the hate he sees. Only this hate is expelled - a difficult word -, revives from, to say it in his language, to understand it, by his likes against the Greeks. This hatred is evident from the economic war, which the Greek people are suffering, through the wild taxation and the memorials, from the seizures of their homes, falsely supported by the Syrians, being in the opposition, that they would protect them from the homes, while now they have arranged to be in the hands of the bankers, from all sorts of left-wingers, who each so much are destroying with savage and rabies everything they find before them, burning, breaking our fellow citizens' cars, who, from blind hatred, attack the police forces, from the indifference and oligopoly of this state to our compatriots who have been hit by extreme weather and not only. And we saw this attributes when we saw Mr. Tsipras, the communist, but "associated" of the Americans, who represents the Prime Minister of all Greeks, while he actually thinks he's still in the CNN, when he visited Matty, asking his advisers about some wounded person who gave him the floor if he is theirs. At this point I think it is advisable to see what the 'partners' believe in violence, the followers of Lenin, Trotsky, Marx. "Birming is the midwife of history," Marx said. "The major problems of civil freedom and class struggle are ultimately solved only by violence," Lenin. "A revolution is not established without terrorism, general disorganization or even ruthless disasters, as it is impossible to make omelets without breaking eggs," Buchharin. "The question to whom power will belong in this country, which goes to say whether the bourgeoisie will survive or disappear, will not be solved by reference to the articles of the Constitution, but by recourse to all forms of violence," Trotsky. "Don't look for any evidence or evidence that the defendant acted in words and works against Soviet power. Question One: What class does it belong to? This question should determine the defendant's fate. This is the essence of red terrorism," Lats, Head of Cheka. Let us now come to our home country and say how the People's Association - Golden Dawn, our third political party, hate and violence by the Bolsheviks have experienced. In January 2018 at least we had two murderous attacks. One was a legally elected regional consultant in Crete, Mr. George Spiropoulos, and the other was to our MP, Mr. Germenis. We had an arson attack against a competitor vehicle in Xanthi. I shall table here for the Minutes, for the reason of the true, relevant document. We had a enthusiastic terrorist attack on competitor Michael Arvanitis, who was also our MP, with a powerful explosive mechanism in his office on February 18, 2018. They tried to downgrade this attack, talking about jazz. However, the extent of the disaster leaves no doubt that it was an explosive, arsonist mechanism of great power. Murdering attack by para-states at the offices of the central administration of the Golden Dawn - I will also present this for the Minutes - on 31 March 2017. The impunity arms the para-states. An incendiary hit on a Golden Dawn strain car in the western suburbs on September 2, 2017. And I'll testify to that in the Minutes. Parastates attacked and robbed a regional councillor of the Greek Dawn. EL.AS. He refused to make arrests, with orders from above. This was done on September 1, 2017. There was also a murderous attack by a left-wing para-state gang at the Golden Dawn offices in Aspropyrgos. Male murder attack against three members of our party from more than twenty left hooded terrorists, with the absolute tolerance of the government and state authorities, took place on 15 June 2017, before our offices in Aspropyrgos opened. I'll testify. Among these wounded were a girl, for whom the Secretary General of the Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos yesterday, tabled to plenary, for the Minutes, a photograph, a photograph, a girl who was severely attacked by hammers, with the result that she would suffer severe hand fractures and receive dangerous blows to the body and the head. On November 1, we had the murder of George and Manos at the offices of the northern suburbs. The killers, though known on the starboard circuits, remain inconceivable. I am sure that many more deeds of love have escaped from those who are against violence and against hatred. Since we are in December, a month of treason on the left, which was mentioned specifically by the Secretary-General of the Golden Dawn, Nikolaos Michaliokos, yesterday with evidence, I do not want to lie wide. I just want to add a personal element. My grandfather's cinnamon is empty. And this, because abhorred Bolsheviks, Marxists, entered his home in December 1944, and took him. My father searched everywhere where the comets were taken and slaughtered. He never found him. Communism is synonymous with violence, terrorism, darkness and freedom. One look at the prisons, you will find left-wing leftists of the “17 November” terrorist group and not just condemned murderers and other centrifuges of “red” terrorism. So do not refer to the Golden Dawn as the party of hatred. Hate is Stalinist, Marxist, Leninist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u88	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u89	Wait a minute, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u90	That is why I am pressing you closely.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u91	You're absolutely right, I'll be done in half a minute. This hatred and especially hatred of any Greek, for their bad fortune, have instilled in the souls of our children, but thankfully, with the exception of a few exceptions, as we see here in the photograph I will be tabling in the Minutes, threatening with wood the Greeks, holding murderous lilies, did not succeed in poisoning the majority of the Greek student youth, who came out on the streets and protested on a major national theme, the Greekity of our Macedonia. Of course, we have not seen in the occupations of these students that there should be a vandalism, unlike what we have been used to seeing all the years since the hate of the red catastrophes, which break coils, computers and harm the state. And your hatred towards these children - you see, they don't have a Daddy Minister - because they keep the Greek flag and don't burn it like your own children, it seems, since you impose sanctions on these children, and of course you leave all the violations that burn it freely. What has to do with Greece is hate it, while on the contrary you are not disturbed...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u92	Good, Mrs. Zaroulia. Please, seven and a half minutes you're talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u93	A word, Mr President. You are not disturbed by the nationalism of Albania, the Turks and the Skopje. You're dangerous for the country. You want to cut off youth, and within this framework you have legalized the hashish, because, as you know, the weak body is not fighting, the weak mind is not thinking. Don't touch your mouth as pure as there is today in Greece. Through youth, the Golden Dawn of Hellenism slowly rises. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEIGERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-seven students and students and three school attendants from the 8th Municipal School of Thevas. We welcome you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Maniotis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, I would like the floor for a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u96	Wait a minute, Mr. Maniatis, because the Minister wants to make a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u97	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u98	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u99	I'm making some legislative improvements. I would like to point out that it is the one we have discussed. And secondly, with regard to transferring the management of the special account from IPTO to the entity that is now managing it, which was 1-1-2019, we do 1-4-2019, giving a quarter to make the transfer more smooth. These are the two main changes. Everything else is secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Maniotis has the floor. Mr Petropoulou, I will give you the floor for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Petersburg, what can we do? We know the amendment you have tabled. Our parliamentary representative will ask you and answer you. Dear Mr Stathakis, I really am pleased with you every time you table a bill, because we have the opportunity to discuss with you this special relationship of the space time that exists in the operation of your government. Because our rapporteur, George Arvanitides, has said so clearly and documentedly, I will be content with this bill to address just two or three issues. The first relates to the underground gas warehouse and I have to make it clear from the outset, because the underground gas warehouse in Kavala is a great dowry of the country's geopolitical upgrading. It was until 2011 a forgotten element of this geopolitical domination. In 2011, then, we started - PASOK government, not to forget - and we first studied what is happening with this underground look, which I note has a capacity of one billion cubic metres of gas, a BCM. In other words, it is a great intervention. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I will present the first study we have prepared, the first study ever carried out by the Greek State, finally 2011 beginnings, to convert the exhausted natural gas deposit of Prinos South Kavala into a new geopolitical tool in the country, in conjunction with the other initiatives. Let me point out that in the whole of the European Union there are today a hundred and twenty-six underground warehouses speaking. Greece has no one. So we started in 2011-2012 and studied for the first time with the National Technical University of Athens the potential for use. Please, I am tabling them for the Minutes and giving them to the Minister. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above study, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Then there was a mistake, political mistake, by the government. Whilst, until then, responsibility belonged to the Ministry of the Environment, unfortunately for speed reasons was transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and continues to be in the Ministry of Environment and nothing has happened. In 2014, therefore, April 2014, the second and full study was now carried out by an international house, "POYRY", a large house, commissioned by the IPCC and the IPCC. In the total of about fifty pages, the potential use of this underground deposit is recorded. Please, I'm tabling this for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is where the question arises: In 2014 the studies were completed. 2015 SYRIZA, 2016 SYRIZA, 2017 SYRIZA, 2018 SYRIZA. What did SYRIZA, supposedly interested in the country's geopolitical upgrading, when voting against the TAP, is it against the EASTMED pipeline? And as the President of the Change Movement said yesterday, "Photo Genuines", you were across from across all the geopolitical energy partnerships that we had started with Israel in 2011 and with Egypt in 2013-2014. And now we're coming to do what? The government must admit that even in what it found all ready, and only one, it was left to open an international competition for the investor concerned to undertake an investment of EUR 400,000, 000 - because we are talking about an investment of EUR 400,000, 000 - it unfortunately did nothing for four years and we are going for another extension. Minister, the lost time for your Government may have a zero value, but it is an overpriced national patriotic time and you have no right to waste it like this. I have a second comment, ladies and gentlemen. You know, because I like the Minister, he disappoints me when a man of civil education and academic lies, as Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos says. I don't want that to happen. So Mr Stathakis, and today he reiterated something I have asked him not to repeat.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Maniotis, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u103	I shall conclude, Mr President. It says that when SYRIZA took over in 2015, the Renewable Energy deficit was 800,000,000 euros. He has said it three - four times in the House, he has said it a dozen times in his interviews. I submit for the third time the cover of UNSCR March 2015, Government SYRIZA, which says on a specific page that the specific deficit of the RES at the beginning of 2014 was 238,000, and we reduced it within this year by 72,000,000 and delivered it to the SYRIZA Government only of 166,000, which means that in itself the account was zeroed in a year and a half. Minister, please warmly after the third time we have tabled this number to agree on this: when the truth and reality disagree with you, I am not the one to blame. It's probably the truth and reality. However, documentaries prove the truth about our arguments. Thank you very much, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u104	To give the floor to Mr Petropoulos, on an amendment that he wants to support and then the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Skrekas, will speak and we will continue on the list. You have the floor for three minutes, Minister, for the development of the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u105	I would like, Mr President, if there is any question, to answer because I will have to leave after Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u106	If there are any questions, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u107	The provision concerns the payment, the calculation of the solidarity levy and the health contribution. Because until now, until L.4387, the AACC and health contributions were calculated in the initial pension amounts paid before the successive cuts in the Memorandum of the previous Governments took place - and therefore were withholdings in an amount that was not collected by the insured - this has to be definitively corrected. We have already made some corrections in practice, returning the wrongly withheld contributions. It is thus regulated - because, as from 1 January 2019, all pensions with personal differences will be paid without cuts - the issue of the level of withholding contributions to the GFCM and the EEAS. To explain and understand: the AKE and the health contribution for the EOPY, for these pensions, were still calculated on the basis of the amount initially paid before the reductions. It must therefore be regulated by law in order to make it clear that the amount calculated as a basis for the contributions of these categories is the actual amount paid rather than the pre-material cuts. But there is the case, because this has happened, some pensions paid after April 2016, after Law No4387, had a difference, because, according to Law No4387, if more than 20% of the pension is paid in the first year, 1/3 et seq. And there was a difference. In these cases, no contribution will be retained for these pensions and the amount resulting from the debts incurred in respect of GNI and EOPY will be paid by the State budget. That's what the order says.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u108	What provision is this, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u109	It is the provision in Amendment No 1870 and special number 212. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Kutsuko, you want to ask me some questions. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, if the Minister answers me, I may not have to make use of the position we agreed with the Bureau this morning on the amendments, since it is well known that the amendments have come after the drafting of the bill and its debate as urgent. Minister, I would like to ask you three questions. The first question relates to the fact that, as is apparent from the wording of the amendment, new pensions after the recalculation are reduced. Old pensions, after recalculation, are down. Because, if they were not reduced, there would be no lower contribution in favour of an R & D&D&I, as stated in paragraph 2, that the ETUC would pay it. So the first question is: how much money is the loss of revenue of the AAA? I can't make a calculation. But my mind goes to the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, which said that the personal difference that was not finally cut was 2,700,000. That's where we're going to calculate the loss of the revenues of the CAA? Tell us, 100,000, 200,000, 500,000? Because the State General Accounting Office doesn't say it. And here you have to tell us and how it will be paid to the AAGE: every month, at the end of the year? The second question is: will the ECKA lose, because will it pay this money, which is now becoming its surplus? And the third and most important - in my opinion - is it: these contributions, which will be reduced for pensioners in favour of ASEAN and EOPY, will be attributed, Mr Minister, to pensioners, in return for the increased detention imposed by your Government or will they be incorporated into the personal disparity? I would like a clear answer, that the House should know and that the pensioners should also know it, because the right and right are the difference in going to the pensioners' accounts. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. Mr. Petropoulou, Mr. Amyras would like to ask you something.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u113	I'm covered by Mr. Koutsukos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u114	Good. So there are no further questions. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u115	First of all, we never said that all pensions were getting increased. Mr. Bukkaro, have you ever heard me say that all pensions are getting increased? We said that out of the uncut pensions already paid, six hundred and twenty thousand of them are getting an increase. That is what we have said, and that proves that the new pensions granted are also being increased. 'New pensions' which are granted, we did not say 'or new pensions'. Greek, we all understand the right way. I do not say 'all', I say 'pensions'. And these pensions are those which are highly reciprocated due to the payment of large contributions. And we have already said that the low pensions of up to EUR 600, the ones that mainly received the EASA, have an increase of around EUR 98. We have a reduction in the loss that these pensions have had and with the others, the accompanying measures that support vulnerable layers, we are trying to cover those losses that have been caused in the previous period. So there's no conclusion. It is arbitrary what you said, Mr Kutsuko, that there is a reduction in pensions. Secondly, you will know - we have said and accounted for this - that we have returned EUR 375,000 to the insured, who have paid more than the contribution due to EEAS and ACAE. We returned 375,000 in two years. This has been done for five years to you, with your own regulations, badly, and we have come and solved the problem. So I do not think there is any reason to worry about what will happen and when exactly these amounts will be paid from the public budget. Thirdly, our aim is to maintain them intact to the extent that these pensions were paid, as they were. And that is the purpose of this provision, any disputes that may be covered by the State budget, through the procedure provided for in the provision. Fourthly, there is no case of influencing the ECA’s reserves because they are accounts collected by ECA for them, by ECAI and by the ECAI. The AAA is over 9,000,000 already if I'm not mistaken. It is an account that, in accordance with the law establishing the AAGE, could pay out from 2019 to assist pensions on the basis of solidarity between generations. We do not predict in 2019 from the budget, if you read, to deduct any amount from the GFCM, it stays there. And therefore, the ACAE operates in a way of guarantee, as it operated. No deficit for the FBI, and it's all right. Since you, too, agree on the non-reduction of pensions, you do not raise matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u116	Are pensioners going to get any increases?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u117	What am I telling you? There are increases in those cases where they have actually paid contributions. They occur, compared to the old system. We've given this evidence on several occasions. We've given numbers. It will be reflected in the amount that the pensioners will get on the 19th and 21st and you will see it there. It is already largely reflected in the pensions already paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u118	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. I had announced that after Mr. Petropoulos, Mr. Skrekas will speak. However, because Mr Santorinios and Mr Haritsis have already requested the floor for amendments, I also see Mr Polakis entering the Chamber for his own amendment, giving the ministers priority to develop the amendments. The speakers on the list are two more Members of Parliament than the Bureau's image so far are three who will speak or intervene. So let's start with Mr. Santorinio.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u119	And a brief second word to have in support of the amendments, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u120	This is for later. That's true. I didn't mention that. I have just confirmed what Mr Kutsukouko has said earlier on about the abstractions that have been decided since this morning, in breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Santorinier, in order not to waste time, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u121	As you know, the measure of transport equivalent has been introduced by Law 4551/2018. As provided for in the Act, the amendment is the general number 1874 and special 2016. I repeat that with Law 4551 the measure of transport equivalent has started to work. The transport equivalent actually has three pillars, namely transport, ticket subsidies for islands, the grant of goods to and from the islands and the grant of fuel. So far, the fuel subsidy has not been started. With our amendment, we are making the necessary legal clarifications in order to start the subsidisation of fuel in small and remote islands as political implementation and then to continue normal application in all islands. As I am given the opportunity, I will say that from 1 January 2019 the normal application throughout Greece of the other two measures, namely tickets and goods, begins. What does the amendment provide for? We define operators as beneficiaries in order to obtain the cost subsidy. This subsidy, based on the calculations we have made, will bring the price to the small and the remote islands of 10 to 15 minutes - at most - in relation to the average of Attica. So you understand that we are talking about a very important change in the cost of living of islanders. The check will be carried out by the Liquid Fuel Prices Observatory. The amendment also provides for the way in which it will be controlled and the administrative sanctions. Mr President, may I conclude by saying that the islands concerned are Agathonisi, Alonissos, Amorgos, Anafis, Antiparos, Asypalaea, Ios, Ikaria, Karpathos, Kassos, Kessos, Kythera, Kythera, Kythnos, Leipzig, Leros, Meglos, Milos, Nissyros, Patmos, Samothrace, Serifos, Sikinos, Siphnos, Skiathos, Skiathos, Syros, Symi, Tylos, Tylos, Folegandros, Psaras. Immediately after piloting, this will be applied throughout Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u122	Mr. President, are we going to ask questions later?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u123	Let the ministers be put forward and ask questions afterward, with the request that the ministers remain in the Chamber and that any questions be answered. Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor. You have three amendments. I would ask you to be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u124	I will be very brief, Mr President. In fact, there are three amendments. The first is 1867 and is concerned with the reintroduction of Article 130(2) of the Law 26/2012. In fact, this is a permanent arrangement in relation to the electoral procedure and the possibility of direct commissions being given to the procurement of the electoral material. That was a provision that applied to all elections. Repealed with Mr. 4412/2016 and reintroduce it for the upcoming elections so that there is no delay in the supply of the necessary electoral material. The second amendment is 1871. It is about the measure of administrative support. What is administrative support? According to Article 94 of Law 3852/2010, responsibilities were transferred to the LAGs, to the local authorities and to the same law as Article 95(2), the relevant responsibilities are necessarily exercised by the municipality of the prefecture in the event that the municipality concerned fails to fulfil the relevant services. The above measure has been in force since then through successive extensions. On the government side, a very large effort has been made so that in this time all municipalities can have the material and institutional conditions for the self-enforcement of their obligations in all their services. Since we are here and there is Minister Stathakis, I mention, for example, the Building Environment Control Observatorys and the initiatives to strengthen municipalities with specialised scientific staff. You know very well that a call for 118 scientific staff for small mountains and island municipalities is under way. The next period will also proceed to new notices for the positions of scientific staff for the technical services of the municipalities after consultation with the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction. However, despite the steps taken, there are many cases of municipalities that still have not made the necessary conditions so that they can meet all their obligations. Thus, we are giving a temporary extension of the measure of this administrative support until 31 December 2019 in order to ensure the undisturbed provision of the relevant services to all citizens, all citizens and all 325 municipalities in the country. The third amendment is 1868. It is about municipal water and sewerage operations. The proposed provision also incorporates the JHA into the permanent regulation that exists for the municipalities and regions since 2012 with L.4071/2012, and the possibility is to include similar or similar expenditure in separate appropriations by specific body and OEM in the budget, since they are of course different regional or municipal units. This has made it very easier for the municipalities and regions, the LAGs, to draw up and implement their budgets, i.e. to register similar or similar expenditures. We now make the same arrangement for JHA. We are introducing them into the same regime. Indeed, after their merger with KALIKARAT in 2010, they have expanded their responsibilities, covering spatially more than one Capodistrian municipality, as was the case in the past. This is a provision which will facilitate municipal water and sewerage operations in the performance of their work and in the recording and execution of their costs. These are the amendments, Mr President. If there are questions, I will remain for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u125	Mr Paulakis has the floor to develop the Ministry of Health's amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much. This is the amendment with a general number of 1865 with a special number of 209. Those provisions shall extend from the end of 2018 to the movements of personnel, health service providers moved by decision of the relevant Directors of the DPO, either within the same health region or between two sanitary regions. The reason why this arrangement is being made is because there has been a problem with the payment of some of the members who have been moved and the Commissioners of the Court of Auditors do not recognise the decisions of the governors alone, but they also want this legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, will you ask questions?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u128	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u129	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u130	Would you like to ask a question, Mr. Screka? I ask because you are the next speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u131	I shall speak later as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u132	Special speakers and rapporteurs precede, so Mr Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Haritsis, to you is the question of the amendment whereby direct commissions for supply, purchase, etc. will be allowed. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if he is prepared to give us a reply. My question is as follows. I had a similar steep with Mr Stathakis earlier: Since the national elections will take place in September or October 2019, why are you now bringing a provision for a derogation? Is it also about the European elections and municipal elections? I just want to understand this: if the elections are held on time, would your Ministry be able to get on with the regular procedure and be ready for elections? That is my question and it is very specific, that is, whether your ministry would have made it within a year of now being ready for the elections. Why direct awards? What do you have in mind, Mr. Haritsi? Will you give us the election date, too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Screkas wanted to ask some questions. Make it clear who's going to ask the questions. We will collect them so that one of the groups can ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u136	My question is very specific and very short.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u137	I'm not addressing you. I am addressing the New Democracy. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Cassidy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u138	Here the explanatory statement is a specific one. I say it because I saw some meanings on the part of the Ministers. It concerns the text on the law on the election of Members, not MEPs, nor municipal councillors, nor regional consultants. So here specifically refers the text to parliamentary elections. So the question is clear: shall we go to parliamentary elections? For if we listen to what the ministers say at times, the parliamentary elections will take place September to October. Another minister comes, however, today and tells us that direct assignments must be made, that direct money must be given - possibly with opaque, because where there is direct delegation there is opaque - and he says: "We must press, hurry, because the time frames are pressurized". To give this answer. Are the time limits for holding parliamentary elections pressed? Are we going to a parliamentary election right away? Because that was said a moment ago. This should be cleared up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u139	Good. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Haritsis, the conduct of the supply of such material, as we know, was a memorial obligation of the country. What argument do you come with now? Because we're talking about expenditure that's important. We are not talking about trivial expenditure. It says some things in the explanatory statement, but what is it that requires you to change a commitment that - if you like - saved resources for the public sector? For electoral expenditure, Minister, as a whole, is some million euros. We're not talking about a thousand euros. We'd like convincing explanations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u142	Minister, these direct assignments were indeed a memorial obligation to save. You change it and bring it now, a moment that makes suspicions, but I would like to ask a specific question: Once it is adopted today, how long will it take to implement this action? Because if this is a two-month period from now on, I don't understand why you don't bring it in June or May and decide and bring it in from now on. Give us the exact timeframe needed for direct assignments - which you calculate, I mean - to implement this process. You realize it's critical, so we can understand your way of thinking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mr. Screka, will you ask questions now or during your placement?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u144	Now that the Minister is here, Mr. Santorinios.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u145	All right, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u146	Minister, with regard to the equivalent, I will ask you specific questions and we would like you to answer us. In the explanatory statement, paragraph 5, it states that the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy and the Minister for Economy and Development is authorised to establish the key elements to be regulated in order to implement the transport equivalent measure. In other words, the authorisation is given to you and the Minister of Economy and Development to identify in future the arrangements, the procedure and the way in which the measure will work. First of all, this amendment is - I will call it - an election because it cannot operate tomorrow's transport equivalent. Because if this process could work tomorrow, this methodology would not need authorisation for you and the Minister of Economy and Development to take the relevant ministerial decisions and determine how it will be done. After you have brought this amendment, we would like you to explain exactly how this mechanism will work. We've got a gas station, a fuel station...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Screka, don't expand with the question in detail. You asked the question. Do you have any more questions?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, if you will allow me, because we have time, I would like to identify the content of the question, so that we can have that answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u149	We don't have time. Do you have any more questions with other ministers?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u150	I have another question, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u151	Make our questions. Don't time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u152	First, he's going a car to refuel to a fuel station. How is it determined whether he is a permanent resident or a visitor of the island? Secondly, how will you ensure that we do not have a circumvention of this measure? In other words, how will you ensure that the quantities of fuel that will then be subsidised and which the operator will undertake to reduce the retail price it sells will only be promoted to residents and not visitors. How will we not create a grey area, a future smuggler that can take place, with this significant difference from retail and retail subsidies? I would also like to ask the Minister for the Interior what I said to our rapporteur and which is very right. You are currently bringing an amendment, and you say: 'It is imperative to carry out the work in question quickly and to conclude the conventions required for the completion of the parliamentary elections'. We have a year - almost - until the constitutional period of government ends from the present government. Isn't it nine months enough to complete the procedures? Didn't you know we're going to have elections in 2019 and move on to direct assignments?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u154	The questions were many, but they were practically similar and revolved around the same subject. In order to reach agreement, and because some Members have tried to create impressions without any substance, it is - I repeat - a fixed provision for a procedure that is followed by all the election campaigns. And I would like to advise those Members from parties who have nursed in the government to ask their colleagues who had nursed at the Ministry of Interior and to tell them why the truth is. The procedures for the procurement of electoral material shall be complex. The Department doesn't start working now. He has been working with the regions and municipalities throughout the country for too long to meet his obligations and through this process we ensure that there is no problem with the supply of the material. Because you know very well that in a case of competition, there are many times - we have seen it in too many works and commissions - that there are objections procedures, time-consuming and delaying procedures. We have no luxury at all when we talk about national parliamentary elections, about any doubt as to the timely supply of all the necessary electoral material. That is what we ensure. She has been working in this direction for a long time. All the rest that has been heard about the timing of the elections is not about reality. National elections will take place in October 2019, such as government planning. We, as the Ministry of the Interior, have to do all the necessary technical preparation and that is what we are doing with this provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr. Haritsi. Mr Santorinios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u156	I'd say it's reasonable to ask your questions. All that is not reasonable is what you say about election. Why, firstly, if it is an electoral service that cannot be implemented, then what kind of election provision can it be? Secondly, all your colleagues, Mr Skreka, in the summer and in particular in June when we passed the Transport Equivalent Act, said that it will never be implemented. The law has been implemented since 1 July 2018 and is currently applicable to tickets and goods on forty-nine islands and from 1 January to 1 January throughout the island. What was left to do was apply to fuel. You're asking me why it's done by a joint ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u157	What's the mechanism? I asked you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u158	I'll answer you because it's done by a joint ministerial decision. For some technical details need to be laid down which, if they are lawfully, you understand that every time we have to amend laws. Therefore, it is not easy every time to come to the House to change a small technical detail. That is why there are also joint ministerial decisions in our law. How's the mechanism? It's not about islanders. It concerns the service stations and the fuel they sell to any islander or non-Islander who is on the island. So when you're going to Alonissos, since you're nearby and Mr. Bukoros, you're going and you're going with this subsidy. In other words, the price of fuel in the Alonissos will be up to ten to fifteen minutes from the average fuel price in Attica. That's it. How's it going to happen? Simple. Every time the operator gets a quantity of fuel, with some criteria to do with distance, whether there are many stations on the island and if there are storage facilities, there will be a certain amount per litre that will be subsidised. He'll send us the invoice, how many cubic times he put in, and he'll take the money. That's it. Simple as that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u159	And if he has...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u160	Listen to me, Mr. Screka. It is therefore checked by the price agency and if it does not apply that price, then the subsidy received and imposed is sought and a fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u161	Mr Screka, come to Stepma, because you are the next speaker, as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u162	I have a question, Mr President, why do we not want to get into trouble?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u163	Again on the same subject? So you weren't covered by the answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u164	Imagine that a fuel station...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u165	About the same thing? For Mr Santorini's amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u166	What did the Minister say, Mr President? He said the fuel station would indicate the quantities it has sold and on the basis of the quantities...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u167	That's not what I said, Mr. Screka. What didn't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u168	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u169	Minister, explain more specifically.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u170	I say quantities, when a quantity of fuel is supplied, will send this invoice to the General Secretariat of the Aegean, how much cubic fuel it has received, the amount of the subsidy will be calculated, and within one month the amount of the subsidy will be sent to him. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Screka, please don't do it like that. Come to Stepma. You have the floor now as a parliamentarian and you also have it. You have the floor in the framework given to you by the Rules of Procedure, to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u172	With regard to the last amendment brought by Mr Santorinios, the Minister responsible, I would like to say, Mr Minister, that with a purchase price for a quantity of fuel that will have a service of fuel on an island, on the basis of the purchase price for this quantity, without knowing this quantity which has been allocated and how it was made, you will give a subsidy per litre, and you believe that this is a mechanism that ensures the proper use of this money and that the money of the taxpayers of Greek citizens will not go to the future smugglers who are today with this amendment you are coming and creating? Because that's the reality. How will you ensure that this quantity of the market, without having the sales invoices, without knowing where this amount of fuel has been promoted, how do you know that this quantity of fuel will not return to the inland, using the subsidy that all Greek citizens will incur? Congratulations to your government. You create new fuel smugglers, using the money of the heavily taxed Greek citizens. And you come and celebrate. Congratulations on this mechanism. Also, because a great deal has been said, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as this country's energy map is concerned, the energy system by the relevant Minister is concerned, I would like to say that I have told you many times, ladies and gentlemen, I have told the Minister for Energy and the Environment that the energy system and the energy sector are not something for which the SYRIZA Government should be proud. What has been done in the energy sector is things that have never been done in the country for for forty years. At the moment, the energy system of the country is on a borderline and is, well or badly, before the disaster. I explain: It comes many times and the Minister speaks and says that we are coming and helping the consumables of energy, we have found money to finance this special account, so that we can close a deficit that was supposedly too big. The rapporteur from KINAAL has already come here and said that the so-called great deficit which the SYRIZANEL Government invoked was already covered, according to his own regulator's announcements, and there would be no need for any further intervention to cover this funding. Not only that, but you have just assumed the country's governance, Mr Minister, and the then Minister for Energy, Mr Lafazanis, came and reduced the EMSMAR, because he had said that the charges of EMSMAR were properly enough and satisfying to cover the special account directed towards the energy consumables. So your own practice, four years ago, proves what Mr Maniotis said before, that the account was covered and did not need any more money. So the fact that you are coming today and you are reducing the charge of the supplier, which came from your own governance, because you have come and reduced EMFFAR in 2015, because you have followed the energy strategy, is essentially something that has no substance and no issue with reality. We're going to abolish the lignite fee. Why do you dismantle the lignite ending? First of all, let us say that this fee was directed to the local communities where lignite production units operate and as a compensation you were giving this fee, this money to the municipalities concerned, in the home areas. You effectively abolish this only, Mr Ministers, to make even more attractive these lignite plants that you have been trying to sell for six months and there is no buyer. But that's not all. It is not that you abolish the lignite ending, but you come and bring an amendment, wicked - wicked. Because you have been divorced with reality and with truth, we know that, but we said that you will have learned from your sufferings, but continue, unfortunately, to be wicked. What are you saying here in an amendment you have brought? You have brought an amendment that enables you to move staff, which is currently working in the sales units, Meliti and Megalopolis, in so far as these workers are applied for, and if their application is approved by you, by a committee that you will appoint, the competent companies of PPC and TEDO. You will therefore be able to move staff from your sales units, to PPC and the DEDDI. You're not saying whoever wants to move, you'll approve of the move. So what's that? You go only for your customers, you go only for your voters, only for those who will worship the SYRIZA and ask to move and only them will you approve, because for the others you do not care. Is there a worse amendment than the one you bring? That's a mock. And not only that, but once again it proves how bankrupt it is to deinvest you are saying, that is, the lignite plant sale plan, once you abolish the lignite charge that has borne the investment units and that you also carry staff to ease them even further than the burdens. And where are you taking this staff, Minister? You're transferring it to PPC. And how is PPC's financial situation today, Minister? From 4 million profits a day he had in 2014, he has one million damages a day in 2018 and we expect to see the financial results. I'm gonna need a minute or two, Mr. President, if you'll excuse me. We expect to see when you will announce the financial results for the month of 2018. And you talk and celebrate the connections. What are you celebrating? One interconnection of the Cyclades was a project that, in two years' time of the New Democracy, 2012-2014, was envisioned, planned, awarded, and started to build, in two years' time. You have delayed a year and a half to build the project and you have come home to inaugurate it half a year ago, charging Greek taxpayers a tax with services of approximately EUR 40 million from this delay. So what are you celebrating for? For the little interface? To understand how well you have done, you have still not applied to the European Commission to get 148 million that is subsidisation from the ESRB. You know that and you come and celebrate here for the little interconnection, when you haven't yet applied as a Greek state to get the 148 million, which is ready money, and which they're waiting for you in the NSRF? And you celebrate that for four years you have made a competition, which is not the whole contest, because for the airspace part the competition is not yet complete, i.e. the section of the Peloponnese, which reaches the edge of the quality system. So once again you're mocking and cheating people and celebrating for something that no one would dare do. And we are going to the big interconnection, and this is very important, Mr President, I would like a minute. The big interconnection is a big problem. Greece since 2013 has supported the great interconnection and connection of Greece through Crete with Cyprus and Israel later. In September, although it had been informed by the Commission in time, RAE ignored the legal interpretation of the article governing the implementation and operation of the PCI, i.e. the projects of great importance of the European Commission, and proceeded to the adoption of two decisions according to which it entrusted IPTO with the implementation of the work of Crete - Attica, while violating the terms of the Memorandum of Cooperation signed between IPTO and EuroAsia Interconnector in October 2017. In other words, on your own governance, this memorandum of cooperation had been signed. While the Commission has proposed a roadmap which has offered a solution to all the problems that had arisen up until then and has ensured the conditions for the interconnection of Crete - Cyprus to be technically and economically feasible, although all the Cypriot parties at that time had agreed with the Commission's proposal, the Greek side unfortunately continues to rely on the RAE's decisions, which the Commission has repeatedly stressed, Minister, that they are in breach of the TEN-E Regulation. And the committee, according to reports, sent on 13 December a few days ago...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u173	Mr. Screka, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u174	One minute, Mr President, because it is very important, because it is unfortunately about money that Greek taxpayers may be asked to pay, and we are talking about money that may exceed EUR 300 million. So while the committee sent on 13 December, a few days ago, clearing up its position once again, warning about the regulatory and economic consequences that the Greek state and the Greek taxpayers can have, and while there is concern about the initiation of proceedings by the European Commission against Greece, which can end up with the European Court of Justice, while the implementing body has already appealed to RAE's decisions and will perhaps continue on other roads, and this can create delays in the implementation of the project, but also obstacles to the possible financing by EIB and EBRD, I would like to say to you this, Mr. They come and say some of your officials that this project can join the next programming period, mocking the world, because in the next programming period it is not predicted that such interconnectivity projects can be financed unless only they transport electricity from renewable energy sources. You come and leave Cyprus a chariot. What will be done geopolitically if northern Cyprus comes and is electrically connected with Turkey? You say nothing about this and you come, Minister, and you celebrate and ask for congratulations on what you have achieved. Why don't you go ahead with this solution that the European Commission has set? What did he say? A committee to lay down common standards for the project and to proceed with the project. What's got into you precursor and you don't want to proceed to such a solution? What are you hiding from behind, what are you hiding? And you will be solely responsible as a government if the project ends up with a loss of ECU 300 million. And if you think you can get 300 million from the NRP, I'll tell you that the projects...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u175	Please, very much, Mr. Screka.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u176	I shall conclude, Mr President. The money coming from the ETUC, from the fund for Europe's interconnectivity, is money that is beyond and above the ESDP. So Greece will lose 300 million that it does not have today and the rest of the interconnection of Crete - Cyprus will probably lose 700 million, which it does not have today. That's what you've done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty students and students and three educational sessions from the 3rd High School Argos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now the ministers want to answer. Here, Mr Stathakis, you have the floor for a minute. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u178	Short of what the New Democracy puts?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u179	Anyway, try to be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u180	I wasn't expecting this conversion of Mr. Screka. It is confirmed: New Democracy's views are very dangerous in the national interest, too dangerous. And I mean it, and I'll tell you straight and no spin. At the moment there is a major project, the triple interconnection PCI, which since 2014 has set an inalienable condition for the national part of this triple project, the national, the non-border, Attica - Crete. The only red line the current government has put in place is that the implementation body of this section will have 51% IPTO - Greek public - and 39%, that is, a minority, EuroAsia and Project Promoter. This red line was signed by EuroAsia in October 2017, and this is the MOU, which not only creates what was an inevitable rule of the European Union that, in the cross-border projects, the official body, the national body, see IPTO, in Germany, something else, but also in the cross-border part also maintains the proto-promoter, Crete - Cyprus, EuroAsia. So this basic principle, which exists in all PCIs and which we nationally defended, was signed by EuroAsia in October 2017. From that day until the RAI's decision, the following simple things happened, and I wonder why you are aligning yourself with views which - I repeat - are affecting the substance of the argument. From October the agreement of the partners on this scheme should have come to an end, which is now called 'Ariadne', 51% IPTO, 39% EuroAsia, 11% investors. In April, four months later, RAE comes and takes out a yellow card and says: "What are you doing? Where's the Shareholders agreement? How do you promote the work to which I approved you?’ And not only did the MOU approve the RAE, but the two decisions of the RAE Cyprus and Greece say: "We approve Crete - Cyprus subject to the MoU's application". The PCI without the MOU doesn't exist in any of the tracks. Is that clear? Clearly. So RAE comes in April and says: “What are you guys doing? Where's the progress? In 2022 I want Crete to have a current from Attica. Why are you stalling?" It is then necessary to negotiate between April and July in the presence of the Commission in order to build the Shareholders agreement, where the Commission notes that the positions expressed by EuroAsia are unrealistic. Let me remind you that he asked for statutory majority voting, while minority voters, the aspect of IPTO gave the full statutory rights provided by the law, 34%, plus increased powers and ended up in a deadlock in July 2018. In July 2018, PCI’s two-year period is closed, according to the European Agency. In the two years of delay in the PCI, RAE acquires the right to assign the person it considers to carry out the project. And this was in her decision last September, which commissioned "Ariadne", the natural follower of the MOU, who had in her hands and nothing else. There is a legal dispute with the Commission on the interpretation of these two issues when the two-year PCI and RAE have been given the right. Did it end in July or end on December 31st? That's the difference. And the RAE, as you know, says in its decision: "Make Ariadne" up to 10 December, for twenty-one days the universe will not be broken." Whatever interpretation you may get, whether RAE or the Commission, the problem is lacking in content. So the delay is clear, one-sided, and I wonder why you are coming today and we are getting our fingers up and you say 'Why are you stalling'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u181	Minister, please complete as soon as you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u182	I'll be done. Now let's go to your second argument, who decides. Will you tell us who decides? Is the Energy Regulatory Authority deciding, or are you questioning the role of the Energy Regulatory Authority in deciding, judging and taking its decisions on the basis of its statutory role? Who are you aligning with? There is a controversy about the interpretation with the Commission. There was no controversy about the technical committee, I assure you, that is not the point. It's too much. Who recognizes this data? My answer is very simple. There's no matter. If EuroAsia, which was typically the project promoter, respecting the MOU, wrote a proposal that says 'I recognise Ariadne' as the body implementing the project, all the problems would be solved. We are not very interested in this proposal for various reasons. We are now going to the loss of Greece's money or not. For the part Crete - Attiki Crete pays 450 million a year. Not Crete, we all pay 450 million to keep Crete power. Attica - Crete is a 1 billion-dollar project, i.e. the depreciation of the project will take place in three years. The PCI finances, by analogy, the efficient and inefficient parts of a project. Heraklion - Attica is commercially viable. So the funding will be relatively small. It will be in the non-commercial part, Crete - Cyprus, which has no commercial viability. So the idea and the lies you reproduce - and you surprise me - that he will lose 400 million is not the case. Third theme: The small interconnection, which is not PCI, did it get 25% of the ESRB or not? He called. So in the idea that we are excluded from European funding, because on a matter of the highest national interest we have kept the right direction from the start to the end, I think you are entering dangerous paths. I do not know whose interests you want to represent, but if you want to represent such interests, you have taken too wrongly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Screka, you want to answer that. Don't go to a controversy procedure now. Other speakers and parliamentary representatives are waiting patiently. I understand the need to intervene. I'll give you two minutes. Respect this time to follow the positions of the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u185	First of all, Mr President, if I may say that I am deeply sorry that the Minister, in order to justify the inadequacy of his government, ends up in slander. I'm gonna ask him to get back the last thing he said, his last sentence. I have never said that he can represent other interests - which are discussed on the market and on the various journalistic tables - because I do not believe that we must reach political dialogue there. What I know is that a letter was sent from the Commission to the RAE and the last line says that if they continue to apply the RAE's decisions, which are contrary to the legislation, there is a possibility that there will be serious economic and regulatory consequences for Greece. And all this is things that the Greeks in the end come and pay for, who is trying to survive with his family, trying to find income at a time when it's hard to find income and find jobs. So when it is easy to fly a possibility for Greece to get 300m euros to carry out a project, the great interconnection of Attica - Crete, which will not have a depreciation value of 400m PKO, because before the small interconnection has been built, which, combined with the renewable energy sources that are on Crete and combined with some of the few factories that are operating in Crete producing diesel or fuel oil, for security of supply, almost 80% of Crete's adequacy, will not be these PKOs which will have to depreciate this project and you know it very well. In the way you spoke you mislead and the Members who are listening to you, because they will be much less of the OHIM to depreciate this great work. That is why we must use even a euro over and above the ESRB. I told you - and I conclude, Mr President - that the small interface is to get 148 million from the NSRF, because it was a project that could be financed, because we had foreseen in 2014 the programmes that we sent to the European Commission to be able to finance with such interconnectivity projects. But I told you very specifically, and you did not hear that in the new programming period - because from there you, your own executives say that big fun will be financed, if it can be financed - according to the information we have, they will not be financed by such projects. So here the only thing we are serving, Mr President, is the public interest and the interests of the poor and the many who are currently paying PPC and electricity bills that they cannot pay. PPC has reached 3 billion, and there is nothing the government has done to reduce this cost. On the contrary, it destroyed PPC, and I fear that it will eventually be at the expense of Greek consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u186	To give the floor to Mr King to develop two amendments from the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u187	I want to give an answer for a minute, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Santorinier, what about you? The answers were given. Don't come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u189	He said we're making smugglers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u190	Let's get Mr. King ahead of us. These are two amendments which have not even been announced and have not even been discussed. Mr. King, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. One amendment concerns regulation on the Hellenic Defence Systems. It is the possibility of giving the tax and insurance information to the company for an additional six months. I think you've read it. What I want to point out to you - and so that there are no crowns such as those that I have heard for a long time on other issues - are not on the side of the OSH. Firstly, I would like to remind them that the OSHs had been driven for sale. That was the concept we had. We managed and held, because it's on the part of the Greek Defence Industry, to stay because they're useful to us. Secondly, there are skeletons in the wardrobes, which in other times also the previous Deputy Ministers had mentioned. We have now succeeded in keeping the human resources in the company to make a great effort to complete the contracts under way. But in order to do all this - as you can see, the situation was tragic, as with other companies when we received the government - there is a need for this amendment. With regard to the second amendment, it is about the payment of the outstanding debts of military hospitals and the EBRD Foundation, NIMTS, and military pharmacies. This has to do with the timescales that have existed. I want to point out three things. Firstly, the large number of health emergencies, and this concerns all hospitals, and their treatment has not enabled all legal procedures to be complied with. Secondly, there have been significant reductions in 2010 and then the relevant budgets of the General Staff and there are liabilities from the EEA. But - to prevent - these debts have been maximised in terms of their fulfilment over the last period. I should also like to point out that the proposed legislation will not impose an additional financial burden on the state budget, so that we do not have any other thoughts. Because the reimbursement of all expenditure will be done and will be covered by the budget of the Ministry of National Defence. Finally, Mr President, many meetings have been held throughout this period with all the hospitals and with the heads of staff in order to ensure that these debts are minimised, because of the needs that arise, with the best rationalisation of the open tender procedures. Because there are difficulties there too, because the competitions do not show companies and do not complete them. So this is a difficulty that exists through the market. I also want to say that this has been minimised to the greatest extent over the last period. So I close and come back to the fact that this procedure is being carried out through this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr. Minister. They already want to ask questions, and Mr. Bukoros and Mr. Theocharopoulos and Mr. Vardalis. In the course we'll see if there's anyone else. Mr Bukkokouros has the floor to ask his questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, I ask for your understanding, but in a bill, which is a stirring-up of amendments, we have important amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u194	It's understandable. Ask the questions, you don't need this prologue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u195	No, but, as Mr Santorini is still present, there must be another important clarification. But I am addressing Mr. King, and I say that the amendment does not call into question either the offer of NIMTS or the military pharmacies or the Centre for the Procurement of the Navy, etc. It is coming to cover a long period of time, from October 2017 to August 2018, some supplies, reagents and all sorts of costs on a condition only: those funds should be in the budget of those bodies. If that were the case, Minister, there would be no need for any way of supplying the public. We would give a budget to the institution and say 'evaluate it as you wish'. And, in any case, accepting the offer of all these bodies, but coming to the General Accounting Office of the State and telling you that the expedited Ministry has not determined the amount of the expenditure three months later from the period covered and for a very long, about ten months, if I am counting properly - October 2017 - August 2018 - why is this sloppyness? What potential does it give? Is this management compatible with public accounting, Minister? And to you, Mr. Santorinier, it's not a simple matter. Since you are here, we want further clarification and I focus on it as follows: we had asked for modernisation of the bill. So we cannot vote for provisions that come into a bill such as transport equivalent, which we consider to be suffering. I blame you, Minister, for being election fireworks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u196	The question of what is it, Mr. Buquarre?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u197	Yes, of course. You will hear that, Mr President, right now. If they are not election fireworks, how do you ensure that they will initially pass to the final consumer? Why do you take your amendment out of the scripture that required you to publish the KHS in a two-month period? You can answer that. And why are you giving the Minister, namely yourself, all the conditions for subsidising fuels in the context of the transport equivalent? Are you a legislator, Minister? Because here we are talking about important regulations relating to public funds, and I would also like to see serious responses mainly to the CSCE and, secondly, to the competence given to the ministers. Do you know what you're doing, Minister? Just before the elections that come, you drop the ball and you say that "we also legislated the transport equivalent on fuel, but the New Democracy that came doesn't implement it". That's what you mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u198	Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor on the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u199	Minister, in addition to the fact that, for this amendment, you need to see a little bit of the argument about tabling the amendment, which is, among other things, the contract for the sale of the land in Elefsina, which has already been made, so there is an issue that you should see in relation to the arguments you have put forward in the text, I would like to ask you something, because we are not here in an environment sterile. Today, outside the House, workers from Elefsina shipyards are protesting and you are here today. They're seventy people. You know, we had made a very big effort, Mr President, with Mr Vitsa, the Deputy Minister of State, and he had actually taken a cross-party amendment at that time, which solved the issue for five hundred workers for the 70% they get and paid every month. We all know the story, you know it, and you know it better. Now seventy employees have been paying since May. They're protesting as far as we know. We've been told that ten days are trying to find someone from the Department of National Defence and you don't even answer the phones. Today they came to protest outside the House. So I ask you what is going on. Because work issues, I think, must be on the forefront. And why, for these seventy workers, the issue has not been resolved in a similar way, as was resolved with the five hundred workers in the problem that exists in relation to the Elefsina shipyards, which you know, we know and we are trying to provide solutions. But at the moment we see that the government is not even talking to the workers in this particular matter. If you can give an answer, because I think it's critical, by the way you're here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Vardalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u201	I have a question about NSAs. You know that we have tabled a corresponding amendment to NSAs, as a Communist Party of Greece. I can understand that you don't want to vote for ours and you're tabling yours. The question is: Why do you give this possibility for another six months? You obviously know this isn't the first time that this arrangement comes in. It's happened in the past, and it's certain that after six months it'll need this again. In our amendment, the proposal is to be given for a year. What's the need to stay in six months? That's what I'm asking. Because I don't know if I'm gonna take the floor later, we're gonna vote on it. I'm not putting that up. But not after six months the same problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u202	Questions were raised to Mr. King. Mr. King, because the questions are more to you, should we propose Mr. Santorinio, why did he want to answer something else? And then you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u203	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to make two remarks. Finally, you are proved to be more than memorial to the memorial tombs. That's all I have to tell you. What you have put forward has not been put forward by the institutions, when we discussed this measure in June.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u205	Why do you remove it from CIA?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u206	Secondly, you have said exactly the same about passenger tickets and goods. But the transport equivalent, a request from the islanders for years, began. And I expect to see how you speak to the islanders, Mr. Bukouros, who are also your voters.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u207	Leave my communication.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u208	It started, Mr. Bukoro, and it's a reality. Secondly, you have just discovered the major fuel smugglers, the new smugglers. Mr. Screkas told us that this is how the smuggling will take place. But isn't there an input-out system in the stations? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u209	I asked you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u210	You tell people, fuel dealers, smugglers...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u211	You say it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u212	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u213	No, Mr. Screkas mentioned them. Let's be a little serious. There is an input-out system. Nothing needs to be done at all, because it is also controlled by the General Secretariat of Consumers and Trade and controlled by all fuel entering and leaving offices. Now, why the CIA? I answered it before. Because they are technical details which cannot be regulated by law, because every time the law should be amended. We did the same in the tickets. We did the same in the goods. Why did we abolish the obligation to issue two months? Because we couldn't achieve it. It had to be within two months of the date of the law's adoption to get the C.T.A. out. That is why we have not been able to bring this regulation to a successful conclusion and proceed to a new CSR.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u214	Good. Thank you, Mr. Santorinio. Mr. King, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u215	I'm starting with Mr. Bardalis. Mr Bardalis, it is not a matter that we did not want to vote on the amendment. I'm telling you, honestly. This amendment has already been in place, for days we have been trying to complete this process. It's not a question, and I'm glad we agree. Now the semester thing. Why? Because there is a great deal of effort to ensure that this rationalisation which I have told you is also forceful to a certain extent, both to the administration and to the part of all the executives, is able to proceed with all these contracts. If necessary, and if necessary, we will do the same. We're determined. I think you fully understand that we have taken these companies out of this whole story, the adventure of the ugly thing which we have been through because we regard them as crucial for our country and for the economy. Secondly, we manage to keep all these jobs and I am the last to talk about it. I now come to Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mr. Theocharopoulos, while I was upstairs, I accepted everyone and parts that aren't in my jurisdiction. So, what do I mean? It is not the Ministry's responsibility, because I want you to know that this does not mean that I avoid the government's collective responsibility to be clear. So as far as the part of the workers - which some people have allergy, you know the New Democracy with the workers and how they want to close companies - or, in any case, about this part you said with the Elefsina shipyards, what they had and what adventure we are going through with them, with all these strange and strange transactions that they have done and given them. So let's move on to the point. The workers have been informed - today they have already been informed, because I have had a Ministerial Council since the morning, and now I am here, but they have also been informed by the Director of my political office and, for days now, by the fact that all seventy workers will join and be paid, just let me finish the procedure for their payments, how it will be done. Thirdly, it was not the seventy in the tripartite, which had been done, and then all the workers and the union had agreed on the number of workers who would enter through the tripartite agreement, which had become a seafarer, a government and a union. So we take these seventy workers as well, and we guarantee them. Okay, well you did and you put it, just...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u216	When will they be paid...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Colleague, don't interrupt. Mr. King, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u218	I said, Mr Theocharopoulos, leave me a short space and will be solved immediately, without much - much, it will be through the same procedure, which we have. I guarantee it and we guarantee it. Finally, if workers are aware of this - I imagine the public statement, which I am making - because they have been informed, I repeat, from previous days on this subject. Finally, as far as hospitals are concerned, when I explain that these debts will not be charged to the budget, so from the same budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u219	I asked you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u220	Listen to me, Mr. Bukoro. With the whole of the leadership and hospitals and staff, what we are trying to do is to improve the situation as much as possible, because it is not easy. And it is not easy for this simple reason: because there are too many necessary medical and pharmaceutical materials, which must be done at all times and cannot be budgeted. Finally, I told you that I've been pressing for the last time to go...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u221	That's not what I asked you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u222	Let go, Mr. Bukkaro. Don't interrupt me. You'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u223	I asked you one thing...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u224	Mr. Bucketaut, don't interrupt. First of all, nothing is recorded. Keep going, Mr. King.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u225	I therefore demand - and I demand - from all staff and from all services and hospitals that this be reduced as far as possible in the next period. These are the procedures that exist. I tell you - and I close - that this effort is being made. Don't try to say either insulting people of staff or hospitals or the government that it doesn't solve...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u226	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u227	Let go, Mr. Bukkaro. I've explained it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u228	There has been an openness since the beginning of the procedure. The Centro Association has not been placed by its special speaker. So we are calling in Stepma Mr. Georgiadis, a special speaker of the Centroon Association. Then we will be followed by Mr Cassidyris and any parliamentary representative who wishes and then move on to the secondary lists of rapporteurs, special speakers. It will take the floor for anyone who wishes. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their work, at least for this time, but, unfortunately, with all this procedure and the poor legalization, the irregularity, I could say, the lawmaking by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, we have come to run by an emergency committee in an emergency House, in a number of other committees, and so on, so that we can also be consistent with all the obligations. The worst of all is that there are also amendments coming. As draft laws, these are the amendments you are bringing. We do not have time to read them here so that we can respond at least positively or be able to put ourselves together and have a fruitful dialogue. You are driving us to vote'residents' so that we do not blame the people who are favouring both the businesses or the branches involved in these amendments and, of course, if some of them are going through the bills which are of a rhetoric, we too can agree to them if we disagree. The worst is that at the moment we have come, with this suffering of the last few days that we have all lived with the budget of the state that you have tabled, to have a debate on this draft law in urgent form and to submit another draft law on the N65, again in urgent form. As if these came to you now and you haven't planned them. And the argument put forward in committee by the Minister is that the draft law takes the form of an emergency at the expense of two factors: the first factor concerns developments in the energy sector. I am referring to the issue of ongoing deprivation and, in general, the issue of the deprivation of 40% of PPC's lignite potential. But this is an argument against urgency since the government itself has decided to brake all the privatizations ahead of the election campaign. The investment in the Greek cancer. The airport "Eleftherios Venizelos" is on hold, the cruise pier in Piraeus is still waiting and as far as lignite plants are concerned, the third time the time limit has been postponed in the tender, while a previous publication speaks of government bazaars with investors and the European Union regarding PPC. I'm filing the relevant post. [[At this point, the Member and I will be Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] Do you know anyone, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen of the government, who are supposed to be in a hurry for the emergency, to do with his pass for potential investors? Let me get this straight. The second factor for the urgency that the Minister has claimed is that everything that is part of today's bill is on 31 December of this year and is on the periphery of urgency. Amazing logic. In other words, you have not succeeded in what you wanted forty-seven months in governance, and you have baptized everything as an emergency, so that we can get through to the holidays in the last week before Parliament closes down. These are not good lawmaking practices that you want to step on and that you blamed the previous governments. If you wish, at least show the example of making a rational discussion process both within committees and within Parliament, so that we can pass all the draft laws through a constructive dialogue and not with a committee, without public consultation and with one day in plenary. In fact, the Ministry is talking about a forgotten eternal, almost exhausted, gas look. Suddenly now the responsible ones have remembered it and will miraculously be exhausted, precisely when the conversion into an underground storage room is voted on. In fact, we as the Centro Association do not consider them to be serious. So, with regard to the second part of the draft law, that is to say Article 22, we will vote 'at present' in order to facilitate the construction of the most useful - we do not disagree on this - underground storage area, if at some point this inexhaustible deposit that prevents the project is exhausted. I would remind you that the Minister - on the opportunity you are here, Minister, if you will answer me - has not answered what the costs are at the expense of the green fund, and I would mention page 10 of the report by the General Accounting Office of the State, as we are talking about an overall annual charge amount and we must make a proper use and there must be no waste of resources. With regard to the heterogeneous multitude of structural arrangements for twenty extensions, as has been said, of the so-called urgent changes that are under way, namely, spatial planning, the register, the structured environment, the arbitrary construction, the saints and various other things, they are in one form - and I apologise for saying that - 'all I slaughter them, I stab them all, I stab them all' in the emergency. We want seriousness and a dialogue on this. I'll say it one more time. There are important sensitive issues among them, such as the reduction of the cost of consumers via EMCDDA, the abolition of the lignite end, the total EUR 60 million for three years that will go to the Transit Fund for lignite regions, such as yourself, Minister, you have calculated the RES fees received by municipalities and consumers and the exceptions in cases of demolition of earthquakes or firefighting. However, since almost all twenty articles in the first part, as well as the new twenty-fifth article, really require many hours and cannot be discussed within a few hours in plenary, you do not allow us time to study, as I have said at the beginning, and to separate the fair arrangements from, if any, rhetorical election arrangements. The best thing we can do, in view of the spirit of Christmas, is to vote 'at present', in the hope that we will not have any further amendments until the end of plenary. We will also be in the vote on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u230	Good. Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. Mr. Cassidy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u231	I shall start with a very critical observation. Those who go up to this Step must be very careful on national issues. I just heard the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative mentioning 'North Cyprus'. There is no north of Cyprus, there are occupied. As there is no northern Macedonia, there are Skopje. As there is no South Albania, there is a Northern Continent. Those who talk to this Stepma, don't talk to a cafeteria, talk to the National Representation. And they cannot give arguments to the enemies of Greece and speak against Greece. I repeat, and I close this issue. There is no north of Cyprus, that's what the Turks say, there are occupied. There is no northern Macedonia, there are Skopje. There is no South Albania, there is a Northern continent, which is lagging behind by Albanian nationalism, and unfortunately the government of ethnicism is deaf. We're going to the bill, which isn't a bill, it's turned into a bill. Seven hundred amendments have been tabled, half the Ministerial Council has paralyzed in this House today, and this whole process is completely inconsistent. The substance of the bill relates to the company ‘KAVAL - OIL’. In other words, it concerns a major national issue, which is the oil of Prinos. For decades we have heard that it is a very small look, a trivial look. However, Prenos continues today and gives oil. For the record to say that it started to give this look to Greece, to produce money for Greece, on a military government, in the early 1970s, and that was perhaps the reason - in other words, the oil extraction from Prino - which was dropped by this military government. For this reason for a decade, Golden Dawn has been talking about the natural gas of the Greek exclusive economic zone. At first you were telling us graphics and pigeons, when we talked about this huge issue, which can solve Greece's economic problem. Today all the international financial houses, all the creditors, have come all the major oil companies that represent states and claim profits from the deposits of the Greek exclusive economic zone. Already in the Eastern Mediterranean Israel, Cyprus, Egypt produces natural gas. The only country that dares to declare an EOZ - and this is a political criminal, which is equally responsible for SYRIZA and its predecessors, PASOK and New Democracy - and which does not produce natural gas is Greece, unfortunately. Golden Dawn since 2012 has submitted a proposal for a law for a unilateral declaration of an exclusive economic zone in Greece, which would provide us with the opportunity to exploit the great wealthy sources of our country. The law that is being discussed today, instead of talking about hydrocarbon production, speaks of a hydrocarbon store in the northern Aegean, which will be sold out even through TEAD, to which the entire national property of Greece has been unlawfully and unconstitutionally granted. And I hereby declare the Step forward that once the Golden Dawn governs, it will nationalize the TIADED and the wealth of Greece will only be exploited by the Greek citizen. The exploitation of our minerals will only be for the profits of the Greeks. That's national policy. You saw that if there is a genuine national government, it could be imposed to the detriment of the interests of European loan sharks. The case of Salvini, which Italy has today won, which goes to a budget that has been accepted by Brussels with 2% deficit. Salvini, who is a national leader and has made his country dominance, celebrates, unlike Dobrovskis who is whining today and says that this is not an ideal solution for Europe. Ideal solution for Europe is only the ones that SYRIZA voted here in 2015 along with the other wings, because both PASOK and New Democracy voted for the third memorandum, except for the Golden Dawn. Salvini, of course, is supported by Italy's heavy industry. It has heavy industry Italy, has the "ENI" that produces energy, has automotive industries, unlike Greece, where the only businessmen are some state-owned llamas that have been imposed on the country's economic life with loan and stolen money. Only two words about the Greek energy deposits, which in the area of southern Crete, according to Deutsche Bank, can provide a profit of 420m euros. Professor Foscolos of the Polytechnic University of Crete speaks of double profits. At a time when Cyprus can produce four trillion cubic metres of natural gas, Israel in eight trillion cubic metres of natural gas, nine trillion cubic metres of natural gas Egypt, Greece can only produce from the deposits south of Crete twenty-seven trillion cubic metres of natural gas. This is a treasure, which we must exploit. Two words on the amendment concerning the parliamentary elections. First of all, we are voting against it because the direct delegation is unacceptable. There must be a transparent competition in any case where the public is to give money to someone in private. However, as far as the issue raised about early elections is concerned, we anticipate that early elections will not be held. We play it and bet if you want. They will be late for the election, because Tsipras and Kammenos, to pick them up from the chairs, they need a grander, you need to bring your partner Bobola, your friend Bobola, with all the bouldose of "AKOP" and he will still not pick up from the chairs those who today with their addiction have destroyed Greece. We will, however, go to European elections in May, where the Golden Dawn will surely again be the third political force and will have two-digit percentages, far more than 10%. And hang up with this. We have the self-government elections. As far as the Municipality of Athens is concerned, the People's Association - Golden Dawn has given me the honour of representing him, of being a candidate for the Municipality of Athens, and I ask you one question by closing down: What about SYRIZA's candidate? We waited a few months to hear who SYRIZA's candidate will be in the Municipality of Athens. A name was thrown out today. You are late, you are afraid, because - I will make a revelation - you already have measurements and see in these measurements that SYRIZA in the capital of Greece is under the Golden Dawn. Golden Dawn passes SYRIZA to the capital of Greece. This will be recorded in the poll on May 26th and the message will be very great, which will give a huge rise to the People's Association at national level. We'll get SYRIZA to the capital of Greece in the coming elections. We will first exterminate the ethno-ethnicism of the Left, so that we may then go into a final race with the ethnic denial of the false right, which is equally dangerous and harmful to the homeland. Only with a national patriotic government of the People's Association - Golden Dawn will there be an independent foreign and economic policy, will Greece be able to make full use, in the interests of its people, of its wealthy sources, of Greece's standing on its feet and become the dominant power in the Eastern Mediterranean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and two teachers from the High School of Aichea. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The list of speakers has been completed. Before we move to secondary, as has been decided, Mr Xydakis, you are the only parliamentary representative who has not spoken and, if you wish, you will have the floor. Then the seconds will begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u233	Yes, Mr President, I am asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr President. I take the floor on the basis of what has been said in this Chamber about some of the regulations which come, even in the form of urgency, because the year is ending and we need to regulate them. What we see is that with all the opposition and the cries, which are unprotected and unrealistic, the Left, surpassed by many wings here, and by the extreme right and by the typical right, which now uses the slogans of chrysanmatism, but also by the old powers of the Centre and of the Central Left, what it does in the difficult course of recovery and exit from the Memorandum of Understanding is that it is at last attempting a programme of rational modernisation, a programme of urban modernisation, which for many years had been left behind or was not even in design or carcinogenic. The forest maps, the pressure for accelerating the famous register, the spatial planning, the placement of industrial parks are elements which, without them, cannot be productive and productive reconstruction. Two important things, which have been heard in this Chamber, are now interconnecting the islands with the national torso in energy. Mr. Screkas told us before that they had gone ahead, they had done so, it had been declared. It didn't happen, it happened. That's what we're saying. I don't know who was fighting over cable specifications in the past few years and about who's gonna get the job, the point is that the Cyclades have been connected and the Public Investment Program is part of the huge work of interconnecting Attica with Crete. These are productive reconstruction, these are visions for Greece after the memorandum, after the bankruptcy, for a Greece that will produce wealth, optimism and national confidence. It turns out that the supremely right-wing government, which now possesses the conservative line, is a government that is progressing with realism, solving difficult issues, has a knowledge of reality, has its ears constantly on the needs of the majority. In addition, with what has been said yesterday in this Chamber and by this Step by the Chief of Staff, the Left is the force that, apart from the rational modernization of the democratic state, is the natural guarantor of democracy, the natural guarantor of the renewal of institutions and institutional health and the natural renewer and supporter of the great social majority. I cannot understand with all these societal and economic programmes, with all these bubbles and the inspirational fireworks for private insurance, private education, private air that we are going to breathe, privatization of everything, even those which we have not had to do by the Memorandum tyranny, what is what you promise a people who is coming out of a historic adventure and is preparing to open its wings on a reconstruction course. We are not going to follow these cries, the anti-democratic and non-democratic in the end. We will not follow Mr Samaras' cries, which systematically replicates chrysanmatism, even a word - the slogans. We will not follow the arrogance of the porphyrogens and the spoiled, who do not respect either the representative institutions or the traditions of parliamentaryism of this fragile but ultimately resilient and dynamic Hellenic Republic and post-multiple. All we have to say, even for the indiscretions Mr Mitsotakis launched yesterday against the President of Parliament, in the face of the President of Parliament and the institution itself, is if he thinks he is wrong, let us put forward a motion of censure and see how many of the three hundred MPs will vote against Nikos Voutsi, that he is undemocratic, that he is not one of the most successful and fair Presidents in the post-Government Third Hellenic Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr. Xydakis. So we can get through to the second grades now. We'll start with you, Mr. Kamaterre. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u237	Mr President, there has been a lot of talk about why the bills and so many amendments, etc. come as a matter of urgency. This has been done and if necessary, it is good to do so. I would like to stress, however, that the amendments put forward by everyone, and much more so as to what extent they are made. If we look at one - one - and the amendments and postponements made to the deadlines, to the extensions, we will see that all of them are in favour of either the citizens or, by extension, and directly in favour of the interests of the public, as opposed to others who have so far used all these tools to serve on a night and amendments which have taken the interests of others at night. We know examples, I do not have time to tell them, we see them in another debate and how hospitals could be sold out overnight and how they were prosecuted without prosecution, those who gave the loan and unscrupulously to the parties and all that we have been watching lately. On the contrary, we should be told one of these amendments which are now coming, one of the extensions of the time limits which is not in favour of the citizens. Who isn't she? Aren't they the permits for earthquakes? Aren't the support measures for the Kozani, Florina, Megalopolis, for the post-living period? Isn't the transfer of the settlement of the Holy Anargyrs? Is it not the extension of a deadline for farmers to make their statements? I wanted to stay in my second language because the amendment on the equivalent of transport came and, of course, I was not surprised by the embarrassment of the representatives of the New Democracy when such measures come. They won't vote again. It is bad because transport equivalent is one of the measures which is sectoral in terms of the assistance of islanders, it is abolishing their isolation, it restores a great deal of injustice to the cost of transport. We have seen this about six months now, which applies to passengers and goods. Now is it an emergency or is it not and who is benefiting? Why does he have to come now? Because it has to be applied since January 1st. Why didn't he come by now? God knows, and you cannot imagine what difficulties were and there are in finding first - first the evidence, why fuel on the islands is so much more expensive. Because they, as the Minister said, depend on many things, such as tanks and how many companies operate there - and even there are great differences from islands to islands - but also from poor operation or illegality, to say it, in fuel traffic. So it was very difficult and it is a great achievement that, since January 2019, the transport equivalent will also be applied to fuels, which enables service stations to sell the liter of a maximum of 10 to 15 minutes above the average price of Attica. Is that what it means? You know that we have islands, where the price is over 2 euros per litre, so it means at least 20% or more. Who, in the midst of a crisis, has dared to make such a reduction over the past few years? Who dared to reduce passenger fares by more than 40%, which currently applies to the islands? Who dared to reduce more than 50% the transport of goods, which is the case and which is currently being applied? Whatever you say, ask the islanders to see who they are to legislate. There will also be emergency and many amendments will be tabled. Tired of it, I know. You will be tired of voting for positive measures, now that we have come out of the memorandum. Go ask the islanders and all the citizens who benefit from these amendments in contrast to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u238	Good. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, to date the bills normally brought by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, in contravention of what the constitutional legislature says, are primarily articles which have no relevance to each other. The accelerating minister in today's bill made the reverse course. It grouped two - three categories of articles, but the provisions within the articles have nothing to do with each other in many cases. It's the same, if you want, damned, Minister. Of course you also agreed to the committees and to plenary that all these matters regulated could have been the subject of amendments, but you brought them together in a bill to deal with a number of issues. The soup has been broken by the parade of the half-ministerial council, Minister, which each one of your fellow ministers has arranged on important issues, which, if you like, strongly emit the perfume of the forthcoming elections. And it is not just Mr Haritsi's election material supplies, who came and told us that it is a fixed arrangement. If it was a fixed arrangement, in other words, why is it revoking it today? It means that the regulation has not been in place until now, so that we know what we're talking about. And to say politically to the Minister of the Interior that this has always been the case, he does not give any forgiveness, because you are there on these benches and you say you do what has not always been done. You're doing something else. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr Santorinios comes and brings us the transport equivalent to fuel. We also call this an election campaign because it is not going to be implemented. And it is not going to apply, because the amendment eliminates the duty of the Minister to commit itself by means of the amendment to make the joint ministerial decision on the implementation of the measure public within two months. If, in other words, elections are held before May, Mr Santorinios and your government will be able to speculate politically and say that 'we have implemented the transport equivalent for the islands' without, of course, being able to prove this, and they will blame the next government, which we and we know will be aware of. It will be that of the New Democracy with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Furthermore, it excludes the Ministry of Trade Maritime Islands which were affected by the migratory crisis, and Minister - Samos, Chios, Lesvos - primarily there is no commitment, because the Minister is turning himself into a legislator and says "we will put the conditions for the transport equivalent", without any commitment, no commitment to go to the final recipient - the consumer, which we agree, yes, the permanent resident of the islands is also the visitor of the islands. There are mechanisms which could all be clear, not to leave 'bricks' and, above all, to pass the reduction in prices by the Greek taxpayers' money to the final recipient, who is the consumers of fuel. With this and the others, Mr Minister, you regulate with the bill and amendments, urban permits, energy purchases, transfer of personnel to PPC and other organisations, trying to put the liquid fuel stations in the game, settle issues of OTAs, JHAs, and I could say categories of many professional workers. You waited - now you got predators - a few days before the end of the year to do so, and for arrangements relating to next year and could be made later on and others that could be done earlier. You may not have decided when, precisely, there will be elections, but all you are doing here today shows that the government is preparing for anything. Perhaps Mr Tsipras will not know when elections will take place and we all know the reasons. It is, however, prepared for any possibility. That is the point of today's bill in conjunction with the amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u240	Thank you. Mr. Shahinides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr President. On the amendments. For Amendment No 1876/218 on the application of the transport equivalent, we have to say that first of all it makes us a great impression, Minister, that you are changing your own law within a six-month period. You could have included fuel in the original draft law from the outset, unless you now obtained permission from lenders and do so. However, we do not understand why the measure should be so pilot for only six months and why only for some islands. Either you do something right or don't do it at all. The islands, of course, also have the greatest financial burden in terms of their movements. Unfortunately, however, it is not the only problems they face. They are also facing illegal immigration, their abandonment by the official state at almost all levels and, in addition, their excessive taxation data. For these reasons, we shall vote'representations' in this amendment. With regard to Amendment No 1865 and special number 209, we will vote'representations', as we believe that services should be provided to these health bodies, but not to a health system as you have done, with the appointment of your own party client and thousands of illegal immigrants serving primarily against Greek citizens. With regard to Amendment Nos 1867 and 210 in general, these provisions may bear the State budget and the budget of the Local Government bodies, first and second, due to the possible failure to achieve lower costs. This is justified under the pretext that the electoral process is conducted in a specific, provided for by the Constitution and the law, without any derogation from it. We shall vote against here because we believe that if anything were to work properly in this country, which has parliamentary procedures as a sacred cow, it should be at least that. In other words, there are several months left to carry out the three electoral procedures, self-government, national and European elections, to take the necessary steps to provide electoral material with the procedures provided for, or at least you should have taken care of it quite earlier. Why should the Greek citizen be charged with expenditure resulting from your incapacity? It is also a impression that the reintroduction of provisions voted on by the Government of New Democracy and abolished by your own law. After all, I do not think this is the first time that we have been going to elections, because there is not even any prediction of any cost to the budget. First time we go to elections? Don't you know about how much it costs? With regard to Amendment No 1868 and specific number 211, we will vote against it as I mentioned in my prototype, although we agree with the proper functioning of the JHA, but on this condition that they remain public and not private, as the provision of water and sewerage is a public good and should be treated as such. Unfortunately, however, you have brought a law in which you have freed all boards from criminal and civil responsibilities during their management. So those who either abused public money or made bad choices will be left unavoidable. And I close with Amendment Nos 1870 and 212. We shall vote 'at present', because this is a fairly vague net accounting arrangement, in which it is not quite clear whether there will be a burden on the state budget or pensioners. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u242	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the Achaia High School (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. I am not going to dwell on the amendment concerning NSAs. We have also put our position through the question. Our opinion remains that it should have been longer in time. I would like to dwell on two - three amendments, which we did not have the opportunity to make on the basis of time. First of all, in Amendment No 1873 on the movement of workers from "MELITI S.A." and "MEGALOPOLI S.A.", PPC and TEDO. Why is it happening now? Basically, it is to facilitate the sale of lignite plants and those who have excess capacity, to be able to go in any case to the DEDP and PPC. We will vote'residents' in this amendment, because in no case do we want workers to have any impact on the sale of lignite units. We are voting 'at present' because we fully disagree with the sale, privatisation and liberalisation of the energy market. That is why I would like to clarify our vote. For the second amendment of 1870/212 on how to retain the solidarity levy, I should first like to remind you - I think it is well known - that we disagree with this charm and must be abolished. What can we vote for? The different way of calculating it? It's not enough that you cut all the pensions, keep this rag even in another way. We will vote against it, because we disagree with the substance of the matter. For the Health Ministry's amendment, I would like to say this: First of all, it extends to a law, Law No.3868/2010, which the New Democracy had voted for, it had been amended by PASOK, and now SYRIZA applies it in the memorandum era. That is, the movement of employees, without their own will. We are against the implementation of such a measure. However, following the clarifications made by the Minister - because it has also made us an impression, as we speak of an extension of ten to twelve days, namely by the end of December - that there are contracts which have expired and that the workers have not received or are unable to take their jobs, because they are not approved by the President, we will vote for it for that reason. More generally, however, I would like to say that we disagree overallly. I wanted to point out, we have also told the committee, but again because of time we have not succeeded in saying so, we are in agreement with the relocation of the Droughts and what the two articles in question provide is going to vote on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u244	We are grateful to Mr Vardalis, who has completed the course of the secondary course of the rapporteurs and special speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, won't we go second?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u246	What do you want, Mr. Screka?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u247	The Parliamentary Representatives will not be a second-guesser?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u248	No dentistry is foreseen. The seconds to the rapporteurs and special speakers - I said this and repeat it, as you said this morning with the other President-in-Office - were exceptionally given because of the amendments. The rapporteurs were given the opportunity to give a second thought to the amendments. A number of questions have been raised by you and other Members to the ministers on the amendments. Do you want to talk again about the amendments? Do you want anything specific?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u249	As you can imagine, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u250	If you want anything specific, perhaps I will give you the floor for one or two minutes, to make your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u251	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u252	You want to say something specific? I'd be happy to forbid it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u253	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u254	Minister, would you like to intervene?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u255	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u256	Yes, you have the floor. That is why I ask you to close the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u257	I think that, over and above all all the issues that were raised in committee and in plenary on the procedure, and now we are called upon to address directly the substance of the three issues contained in this bill, we have to conclude that, for the vast majority of the regulations made in the energy sector and in the field of spatial planning and, of course, for the extension of Kavala's permit, there are strong reasons that there must be a great consensus in this House because they are measures which are of a positive nature, they are all of a positive nature, but they all have a positive sign, there is no specific, specific provision, an amendment which has something ambiguity or anything else. I repeat, fragmentation may exist as an element, but arrangements are part of a set of changes that are also taking place in the energy sector in large areas and of course in the field of spatial planning, where the sectors are many and fast. With this in mind, I would like to call on the House to adopt a positive position, to give a strong signal that this type of regulation, in substance, has a positive sign and will help resolve issues and develop the energy sector and the spatial planning sectors. On the issues that have been referred to in the debate and the tone has been very high from Mr Screka and from me, I do not think there is any misunderstanding if a wording has been spoken too far. Thank you for the debate, just as it has happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u258	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u259	Mr President, I would like to make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u260	We're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u261	The articles are twenty-four now in the body they gave us. An amendment has obviously been added as Article 23. What amendment is it that has been put in?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u262	It's 1854/203.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u263	Has the amendment been incorporated into the last article? Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u264	Article 23 has become Article 1854/203.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u265	It's embedded in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u266	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u267	Mr President, what's the turn?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u268	Mr Buquakarre, it is the articles, the ministerial amendments, the parliamentary amendments and the farewell article. It's the show. Amendment No 1854/203 was accepted in committee, so it was incorporated as an article in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, I would like to make a statement on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u270	You have the floor, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the River I say that we will vote against all the amendments, not because we agree or disagree - in this case we disagree - on the content, but on the procedure followed by a'storm' of amendments to an urgent draft law. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u272	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the outset, under the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: "Urgent arrangements of the Ministry of Environment and Energy - Validity of the Convention between 20.11.2018 between the Greek State and the companies ENERGEAN OIL AND GAS - ENERGY AEGEAN AEGEAN ISLANDS FOR RESEARCH AND PRODUCTION AND PRODUCTION HYROGONDRAKES AND CAVA OIL ANONYMENT, amending the Convention on the exploitation of Hydrocarbons in the maritime area of the Thrace between the Greek Government and the CAVA OIL ANNY CONFERENCE that was ratified by the Law. Regulation (EC) No 2779/1999 (A to 296) and other provisions.' We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I repeat that the vote includes the principle of the bill, twenty-three articles, twelve amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Each time the screen shows up to four articles to be voted and to vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screens the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. It is important to make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, as well as the farewell article, as well as the entire bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it and revise it by the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u273	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u274	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: [[CHANGING PAGE]] The President 1/13 P.P. CJ. [[CHANGING PAGE]] 13/13 P.P. CJ.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u275	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Emergency arrangements of the Ministry of Environment and Energy - Clearance of the Convention between the Greek State and the companies ENERGEAN OIL AND GAS - ENERGEAN AEGEAN AEGEAN ISLANDS ANIMALS CONTACT AND PRODUCTION OF HYDROGONOMIC AND KAVA OIL ANONYMENT, amending the Convention on the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the maritime area of the Thrace between the Greek Government and CAVA OIL ANINSION ratified by Law 2779/1999 (A '296) and other provisions’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle of the articles and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u277	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-19-S1-commons.u278	With the consent of the House at 16.51 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 20 December 2018 at 9.30 hours on the subject of this House's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the supplementary agendas allocated to you.
