ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 2-10-2018, the minutes of its 3rd meeting of Tuesday, 2 October 2018 were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: "Undoing the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the World Tourism Organisation (WTO) on the organisation of the 8th International Meeting of the POT on Tourism on the Silk Road".]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Thursday, 4 October 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 7/1-10-2018 topical question of the Athens MP, Mr. Gerasios Giakoumatos, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Using land in GAIAOSE in the Municipality of Agios Anargyra - Kamaterou". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1/1-10-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Antonios Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Macedonian Museum and other institutions, associations and associations of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement". 3. The 15/2-10-2018 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Aitolakaranania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'The problems of ovine and caprine animals from the continuing fall in the price of milk'. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 8/1-10-2018 by MP Achaias, New Democracy, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, entitled ‘Brexit has an impact on feta’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 4/1-10-2018 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zarulia to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The pogrom against the Greeks in Chimara is continuing. 3. The Question No 6/1-10-10-2018 by MP Pireas of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Skopje port becomes Thessaloniki on the basis of the Prespecies Agreement". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: 'Aquaculture, urban road transport and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 27 September 2018 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Kamatos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Let me start with a dialogue that we had with the Minister in the committees, since not all of the committees were attending. I had begun my position with a disagreement, as regards the explanatory statement, that the establishment and operation of water routes is an innovative action, stressing that the operation of water routes is very old in our country and should not be regarded as innovative action. Of course, this burdens previous governments that did not go ahead with it. This was my position and the Minister replied to me - and I am glad that despite the delays that existed, there are no data and experience in the European Union that would help to create a modern piece of legislation covering our country with its particularity, which is especially island country. Allow me, briefly presenting the bill, to say that it is divided into three main sections. The first is to describe the establishment, operation and operation of airports on water resources - water, i.e. - in the second section of urban road transport issues and in the third section of other provisions, such as some regulations on the matters of the National Flight Coordination Authority and some corrections to previous legislation. Meanwhile, some legislative improvements have been tabled, which we will then discuss. As I said before, the service of water in our country is starting a long time ago. As a Dodecanese, I have seen in photographs and texts since 1916 waterplane flights in the Dodecanese by the Italians in Italian rule. In our country flights were made in the 1920 ’ s and the last one was before World War II. Between 2004 and 2008, they appear particularly on the Ionian islands and elsewhere, when they leave. For our country, it is particularly important for the operation of water routes, because it is a major island country, with the longest coastlines, with most ports, as well as for reasons of climatic and geomorphological and tourist and social development. Let me address the social reasons, because we know the isolation of the islands and the role that waterplanes can play in linking the islands to the rest of the world and interconnecting them, which is very important, especially for the islands dependent on larger islands. A characteristic feature is that the cost of this investment, for the establishment and operation of water, for infrastructure, i.e. it is small enough and that helps to develop them. We heard the bodies and of course the representatives of the parties at the committee meeting. It seemed that all operators consider the bill to be in a positive direction, because everyone admits that the operation of the water routes is positive for our country. The disagreements that have arisen from certain bodies, but more than opposition, let me identify them on two key issues. The first disagreement is on Article 4, which separates licences for the waterways on authorisations for establishment and authorisations. This was not provided for in the previous institutional framework. Apart from the fact that this separation applies to all permits in our country, there is a special significance here, because the establishment permits can only be obtained from a public body, whether it is the Government of first and second grades or a public body. This aims to protect public property, but also public interest, because otherwise, when everything - and the establishment and operation - is to a private person, to stop flights because of some of the private's problems, we fall into a large gap and the process needs to be done again from the outset. Many will claim, and perhaps the creator of the previous bill of 2013, my friend Mr. Mitakis, that there is an institutional framework and that has not been working so far. We can see the evidence. He hasn't paid off. Only twenty-seven applications have been lodged and only three licences have been approved. And that's no accident. The procedures were time-consuming and difficult. There were cases where data, evidence of authorisation, and could go ahead, were being delayed, because somewhere the authorisation to establish was stuck, particularly on environmental issues, on the question of port competences, in which there was no clear status or a clear separation of competences, the rules on the security of the waterways. For all these reasons, we have this result. It is therefore necessary, through this legislation which comes today and which we are discussing, to get things in place and finally to start working on the waters. Also, this division is aimed at facilitating investors, who would like the operation, but who does not want the infrastructure. The public authorities are also being strengthened, those who are authorized to establish them, because they will have revenues which they did not have before and went to the public at any price. Small islands and small towns are also served, because we know that water can be founded in lakes as well. Small municipalities, particularly small islands, are being served, because we know that when they are outside the investor's interest they are staying without transportation. In this process the public body will be able to set up a water route. It is also provided in the bill that a group of waterways can come out in a competition, including those that would be outside the investor's interest, because they are not profitable. Anyway, let me say this in this disagreement, because we are also accused of ideology and all that. It is not possible to cooperate with private individuals, even on the authorisation to establish them, because they are allowed and can proceed to PPPs. A second argument, which went through the whole debate, was about bureaucracy and what happens with those who are in the licensing process. There are transitional provisions which are too short for those who are licensed and for those who do not. The environmental licensing process is facilitated, as I have said before. First of all, he goes to decentralised administration, and before he had to be approved centrally. In addition, for officials who examine applications and supporting documents, strict deadlines are provided for and criminal proceedings are provided if they do not comply with those deadlines. The supporting documents required in various manuals presented in detail in the bill are simplified. We do not need time to analyse them. And an electronic water licensing system is being set up, which controls the whole process, but also facilitates the process. There were other partial disagreements, such as in the maritime fields, that a hydroplane could change its field. This, in fact, was a request from some bodies that imagine the operation of waterplanes in style, as the Minister said, "Indiana Jones", as they do in the Amazon. It is not the intention of this piece of legislation. The intention is, as I mentioned at the outset, to link the islands, to serve tourism and to help develop the islands. Apart from having safety issues in these proposals, it is indicative of how well they were heard during the discussion process in the committees by the Minister, who made the most acceptable percentage of all the individual proposals which have been made and which have been incorporated into the legislative improvements submitted. For example, very briefly, I would say that the two years envisaged as a limit to withdraw the authorisation to establish the watercourse are abolished. It takes two and a half years for the margin to develop flight operations from the licence. Personnel training is served by allowing regional airports to train by the Ministry of Education. Also, until the electronic system is in place, it is possible to continue, as is the current operation of the control of the application and control of authorisations. In the second part, where the bill refers to urban road transport, the main objective is a smooth transition to the new regime, which wants to enforce the bill and a process is envisaged in this direction. It is clear that the award and distinction of competences, the notice will provide for the limits, lines and so on. And the Minister will make the competitions. It's something that is specified in the bill. The geographical area notice may include more municipalities, for the same reason as I mentioned before, namely that small municipalities, for whom investors are not interested, may be included in the whole plan. The proposals of the municipalities are taken into account. There are surveillance committees. The Minister may be assigned directly when several reasons are met. In order to serve the public, this is of particular importance to the small municipalities, but more to the small islands, where an improvement in the bill provides that the municipality itself may also be a contractor. We mention typical examples of small islands such as Astypalea or Kassos, which have one or two buses and no individual is interested, it has no profit to invest there. There the project may be entrusted by the Minister to the municipality, who may also be a contractor. Other very serious changes and improvements were made in this chapter. The Minister has heard everyone, parties and institutions. I will mention two examples, that the Municipal Company of Rhodes and the Municipal Company of Kos, which are the only municipal transport companies, is excluded so that they can continue their work on the lines they have and not enter the conflict procedure with the private companies that will take part in the tender. Here, let me mention the difficulties that these enterprises have in terms of recruitment, which must go through APA, as regards supplies, which must be tendered many times international, and you understand that they cannot compete with private enterprises, who can hire and fire whenever they want and can make their supply in one day. An important proposal, which the Minister accepted and accepted, is to care for the workers at the CBELs. It's very important. Employees have made an intervention, that in the event of a change of ownership at the CBS, they must be protected and not left undeclared, and so it is foreseen that in such a case, namely the change of ownership, the Regulation of the ESCB, which provides for the protection of workers, but also Community directives, which in these cases provide for the protection of workers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, Mr President, I will be precise in time. After all, I think there has been a very serious debate, a constructive one, because the vast majority of the proposals in the bill have been incorporated, even if there is room for improvement on today. I think the Minister will hear and can be voted on at the end of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, too. We continue with the rapporteur, Mr Vlavo. Please, Mr Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a bill today, which is made up of two parts: the first concerns the operation of water and the second concerns urban transport. Commenting on the first part, I have to say that over time it has been the political will of governments to refuse the waterplanes in Greece. After the 1920s, when the planes actually flew to various destinations, an effort was launched after the 2004 Olympic Games by the company ‘AIR SEA LINES’ with Canadian shareholders and a main water park in Faliro. It worked with temporary permits a few years and in 2009 this activity stopped. There are several structures left to testify that this project has not been completed. The second attempt in 2013 was again by the Government of New Democracy. Law 4146 on Strategic and Private Investment provided for the speeding up of permits for water-planes, but did not have the same development since 2015, and in fact, this law was frozen, it ceased. Three licenses were out, and there are twenty-seven pending files. So the institutional framework existed. Mr. Majority rapporteur, commented on my colleague, Mr. Mitarakis. He's right. The institutional framework existed. You simply had the political choice not to go ahead with it. You told us you didn't have any ideas. Yes, you have ideas. Because of all that you have brought, from the new project that you are doing, what is the most important diversification? That private individuals can't set up a waterway. If you thought that the problem was that and with the new bill you solve it, then I'm afraid this time it won't go any further. You gave a bill since 2016 in consultation. You've been late two years. And you brought today, as I said, a bill for which we in the committee have reserved reservations in principle and in the articles, because we are not convinced that the whole of it is something different, it is something new, it is something more effective. We have given the committee detailed comments on the articles. And we have received the commitment that they will be examined. Of course, some comments, in fact, are contained in the legislative improvements that you have announced, but there are also open issues. After all, the exclusion of individuals from the establishment of a water route remains, since this provision does not take into account the fact that at the present juncture, even the organisations of the two largest ports of the country, Piraeus and Thessaloniki, have been granted to individuals. In addition, several marinas are in the process of being granted to individuals. The Minister said to the committee: "But PPA has been allocated for specific activities. And for these activities he has paid. How do we give him an extra activity, right, free?" If the problem, Mr Minister, is to give the activity. And if he needs to pay the Greek public something, he'll do it. Because tomorrow morning, a marina will be privatized. In this marina, which will be privatised for the first time, will there be a provision of water creation or will it be excluded, under the law? You have to make that clear, because you're trying to take a step, but when you hear about something private, you're scaring. That's why we're telling you that you're going to handle things that you don't believe and concepts that you don't understand. So I come to the second paragraph of Article 6. I told you that this provision is incomplete, because it is not the case that partners from the EIA or IKI are legal or legal persons and not only natural persons. In the case of partners, where companies are multi-participating or listed on the Stock Exchange, it is clear that analogous application of the provision, as formulated - "...responsible to natural persons who hold the shares or shares of legal persons - partners of the EIA or IKE..." - will be difficult to implement. That's what we didn't get an answer to. You have also not taken note of the remark in Article 27. On the substance, it prohibits movement into more water fields. This is the advantage of waterplanes, going there, that can't go any more and go fast, go cheap. Because waterplanes are not obviously directed at us. They are addressed to people who make tourism. If they are not exploited in this way, and if they cannot function and fly by concise procedures, what is the point? At the same time, I was told by a known person that in Canada the operator is doing everything: he goes down, controls passengers, boarding, starting, leaving, going elsewhere. The procedures are very simple, which is why this activity is of interest. Why? Because it compresses the cost. What do we want now? To develop a bureaucracy of controls. Well, if the cost rises, there will be, in most cases, alternative ways of moving tourists and citizens in general. Furthermore, Article 31 does not clarify what has been started by licensing. You have brought in a regulation. But what do you say in the legislation you brought in? If, within 15 days, this afflicted investor who has been privatised for years, who has paid the licence, does not agree to hand over the license to the public body, who has given it to him and has to cooperate with him on the operation, he loses his license. I mean, with the gun on the head. Is that the investor reward? So that's how you see the investment? How can this man in fifteen days make these decisions? A man who waited for the state and specifically your government four years, now you tell him in fifteen days to make his decisions, or he will lose his license and leave the game completely. Obviously, it's a regulation that only creates problems. We still have Article 13. He says in two years, if he doesn't have a flight job, he'll lose his license. We told you that, because bureaucracy is known, there is a risk that an investor will get a license for a waterway and until he gets the licenses from the next, to build his route, he will have spent two years and lose his first permit. What did you come here to do? You did two years, two and a half. That's not what we told you. We told you that the two years, if you wish, will apply as soon as the flight work, which takes the leave, is started by an operator. Then, if the flight project stops two years, let's lose the license. But until the lengthy procedures and bureaucracy are completed, and if some agency delays a paper, two and a half you have done so - it cannot be under the threat that it will lose the license and start again from the beginning, which is what we are saying. Let's go to Article 15. You say 'we are against transfers and the marketing of licences' and you are doing well. And we're against it. We do not want licences to be traded. And what do you think? You say in Article 15 that the licence is intransigent and, finally, instead of two years, within which the transfer could take place, which was untransferable, you make it three. In other words, non-transferable permits cannot be transferred earlier than three years. In the end, therefore, and the position of principle that they are not traded, that the licences are not being sold, that they are not non-transferable and that you have set a limit. Are we wrong somewhere? Answer us. In paragraph 4 of Article 15 I told you, you brought legislation and from the wording you brought, you tell me that 'You have not understood exactly what we have said'. I would like to say, in paragraph 4 of Article 15, to be better, more detailed and more understandable. Let's go to Article 20: You say 'the insurance certificate concerns only flight work'. Should the insurance certificate not relate to the whole operation of the waters? Why only the flight work? No other dangers? This is another gap, which we have seen. In Article 27 I spoke to you about most of the water fields. In Article 30, paragraph 6, you have brought legislation. But here I understand that you did not understand the problem, because you should explain to us how 3b and 5 go hand in hand and how they are corrected by the 6 that you brought. You must explain this to us, because we are talking here, and it seems that we cannot agree. I told you about the withdrawal of a licence within 15 days and, of course, somewhere you say that an independent authority is being launched, provided for by another bill with the ADP. The AMP, this independent authority, if I'm not mistaken, is not set up. Is that the one that controls, is that the one that will speed up the process of operating waterplanes and water? On the bells again? You had an institutional framework, you did not use it. You made modifications, and you put on your own tripods. Then who's to blame? Do you have the political will to move on? Yes or no? Because in the end, this is what this is all about. Of course, it's an investment effort. The New Democracy, from a position of principle to an investment, cannot be negative. We cannot, however, highlight the problems which exist in the individual regulations, because tomorrow you will say 'But they have all voted'. And because everyone voted? The responsibility for the arrangements lies with you. So what can we tell you? Shall we say yes to you in the first place? Good. If some articles reverse the whole spirit of the bill and make it ineffective, political responsibility is only to you. I come to the second part because my time is running out. The second part concerns urban transport. We have heard the institutions, we have heard the proposals of the Pan-Hellenic Civil Communications Federation and we have seen some improvements. Nevertheless, I have to say that there are still individual objections. For example, I told you in 45 - and the Minister gave me that impression at the time that he accepted it - that there would be a grouping of the transport project. This, in our view, cannot be done. I told you to accept - not to read and delay - the proposal made by the PLO, as it proposes. I think that it is objective and expresses the spirit with which you have also agreed in committee. In the second point, which I would like to mention, we told you in Article 45(3) of paragraph 5 that each undertaking, irrespective of its participation in one or more competition proceedings, may be declared a contractor of only one tender. If you really want to rule out large forms, multinationals, which may come occasionally, to "walk" a contest to get a project along the way, to start creating problems, we should protect the shapes that are currently in place. I don't understand what you want? Leave it open? Is that your choice? Is there a body to come and get all the transport work across Greece? Is that your spirit? Because we propose something else. We propose individual activities of transport project operators with a tendering procedure, with clean procedures, but individual ones. And we say: so that there is no separation of profitable lines and so-called barren lines, which no one wants, we said that there should be a grouping, so that anyone who gets a transport project can know from the outset that he has inside and some problematic - to say so - lines. Therefore, he will be able to organise his work better. We are also addressing professional people who know the subject, so they can protect the traveling citizens and their own interests. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Article 38 stipulates that a responsible body is the Minister or, obviously, a department of the Ministry of Transport, which will be empowered to do so. You know that RAEM, the regulator, has been legislated. For long-distance buses responsible for deciding is the regulator, i.e. an independent authority. For the bourgeois, you say it's the Minister. For the water roads again, you tell me that it is an independent authority. Now, where we want it to be an independent authority and where we want it to be the Minister? What are you gonna do? You know that we are obliged to move in European contexts and that transport cannot be in person, cannot be in the Minister, and I do not imagine that the Minister is in a position to decide on a transport line in Crete. He doesn't have the knowledge. Anything they tell him will sign. In order to check the feasibility of any line across Greece, you have to tell us when and how this independent authority will work. In Article 47, too, awards remain. In an hour's time, it obviously solves the problem, but we have to agree that assignments, when there is all of the competitive process, are not the best and it is intervention and can often hide and be appropriate. I would therefore say that we must do everything possible to ensure that this responsibility for the award does not exist to a political person, such as the Minister concerned. As far as Article 39 is concerned, I will talk about better wording. I would like to mention one last thing, since you are talking about urban transport. I would like to talk about the permanent request of the CBS to have their own offices. You know that in order to establish a station whether it is of the CBEL or of a private person, there must be land uses. These land uses may be, in my opinion, and the number one problem that our country has.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u6	Please, Mr. Vlavo, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u7	I shall conclude, Mr President, but it is not at the outset, in the articles and in fifteen minutes and in a meeting to discuss a bill. It's not all happening. I would like an understanding of time and let us finish a little later in the evening. If we want, on the occasion of the CBS, to have established stations, not only within the jurisdiction of the CCBS, but also in general, you need to regulate and solve the issue of land use. Doing that you don't see it and say that you can create stations, while they're actually forbidden, I imagine you understand that it's a great mockery too. I will return to the individual amendments, which have been tabled. Time, obviously, is not enough. I would like to believe that there will be improvements in this bill even more than the ones already given, which some are not important. You will understand that with this project, which you have launched, namely by ignoring an existing institutional framework - I am talking about the waterways - and making a new start, you have the political responsibility to institutionalise and shield this new beginning, otherwise, regardless of what each party will vote in this House, as I have said, the responsibility will ultimately be yours if this plan that you brought to the ground. You are responsible for not making progress in the previous years. You will be responsible for this start, which you supposedly go and cowardly, you want to advertise, without us knowing why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u8	Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure do not provide for an extension of speaking time for more than 15 minutes depending on the quality or quantity of the bill, and of course I am in the unpleasant position to interrupt the rapporteurs, but that is not right. I would therefore ask that we all comply with the 15 minutes so that I am not in the unpleasant position to interrupt the rapporteurs. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr. Jelloni, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House is organised, thirty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 4th St. Anargyra High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The rapporteur for the Democratic Integration, Mr Gélélez, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u9	Mr Minister, taking advantage of your presence, I would like to put before me first of all the question of the abstention of the workers' examiners, namely the Ministry of Transport, where they are absent from the examinations of the candidates. Why are they abstaining? Because on 30-44-2018 you are consulting a law where you are right to change the procedure for the examinations, the examination time and all that and you said that by May 2018, according to the press release you made, it would be voted on in Parliament and would close the matter. There were transitional provisions, which were foreseen, but unfortunately not even in October, this bill has not even come for debate in Parliament, so that the examiners are not paid, because there is no Ministerial Decision as of April 30, 2018. We have tabled a number of amendments on this topic on several occasions. We put it today and we will be tabling an amendment again. We consider it to be a practical matter. Finally, show as a government that you say "for the first time on the left", your sensitivity to the workers. Regarding the bill, which we are discussing, the water roads are the one and urban road transport the second part. Before moving on to my position, however, on the bill, I would like to make a point on the part relating to the waterways. It strongly reveals one of our country's pathogens, the political system, I would say in general. It is a bill, which could have been passed years ago and had contributed to the development of the country through investment, as the creation of the waters would have made a decisive contribution to strengthening and developing tourism, one of the most important, as we all say, pillars of our national economy. So this bill, in the most revealing way, shows why we are in this situation today, as a country. Because, instead of having predicted from yesterday that this draft law has been tabled, that it has been passed and made the law of the state, we unfortunately see today that such bills, until they reach the point of implementation, have become the bridge of Arta. And why am I saying this? As of 2013, the investment project L.4146 provided for the establishment and location of the waters. After two years, on August 5, 2016, this bill was filed in the Consultation, as regards the water corridors. After two years, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government comes today and presents the particular bill to parliament, overthrowing the philosophy of the previous law. For a country, as I have pointed out, which is mainly island, facilitating the creation of water, will certainly change its map radically, especially in the tourism and investment sectors. The benefits, that is, that will arise, are too much. In relation to the bill, we have expressed reservations about specific articles that need special attention, as regards the establishment and operation of the waters, so that the law is effective and profitable for the country for the purpose we are voting on today. While the developmental L.4146/13 established a development perspective and created a dynamic spatial planning and, at the same time, an anticipation of the regional authorities of the place, the municipalities, the municipal port funds, the port agencies and investors for investment opportunities, the development of remote areas, you come today with this bill and, as set out in Article 4, you say that the only bodies that can get in to establish the water road are the public bodies and OTA A' and grade B'. Only they can obtain permission to establish a watercourse. There is a basic difference here, for our part. We agreed with what was provided for in the investment law that private-law legal persons and private-sector investors can participate. Without prejudice to the authorisation to set up a water route exclusively to public entities, it is bypassing the fact that at the present juncture the organisations of the two largest ports of the country, Piraeus and Thessaloniki have been granted to individuals. In addition, several marinas are in the process of being granted to individuals. As a result, several ports and marinas, offered to create a service node of one or more water networks in the largest urban centres in the country, but also in other tourist destinations, are practically excluded from any design of a water network, with what this implies for the viability of each relevant project and the attraction of investors. In addition, this provision creates further issues for the granting of private and other ports in the country. With the provision of Law 4146/13, the State was not in danger of losing something, because when one invests in a port, the state has the main reason and loses nothing of what one had. Port agencies in the country are 12. We've got a sixty-sixteen-mile aprons. In addition to the twelve port organizations, the rest of the ports belong to the port funds and therefore to the municipalities. And you come here today and say that the investment will be made either public or local authorities. Can the municipalities, where most of them today, due to the country's economic situation, the reduced revenues and cuts in the CAP, do not have the possibility of making such investments? Apart from that, however, we see that once again the state treats self-government as a source of resources for the central state. And while you are now saying that the port funds - that is, the municipalities - are creating water routes, the Ministry comes with Articles 8 and 22 of the bill and imposes a paradox of EUR 2,500 on the original licence - this money is taken by the central state - and, at the same time, you also impose a 5% contribution in favour of the net fare, which is again in favour of the Ministry. But since the municipalities are going to invest from what they don't have, the revenues from this investment, either paradoxes, or 5% of the net fare, why is the Ministry taking them? To run some services, he says. You put them on. Leave that money to the municipalities. This also shows the decision on centralised management by the central government at the expense of the regional and municipal authorities in the country, which are all called upon to implement the investment in establishing water without resources, with the possible revenues from this fee - and the paradox and 5% - going to the central administration. At the same time, I would like to say and stress the case where the public majority is involved in order to obtain a licence to set up a water route: why should it do so when it can, through the concession procedure to the private person, have the absolute control - as I have stressed - and increase its property? It may also withdraw the concession if this is required in the future. Why should the public spend money on water building, especially now that the country is looking for minimum funding to meet its essential operating needs and while the social and prosperous needs of the population are not met? Also, 5% to the end of the day is similar to the 12 euros that exist as a horizontal levy on air ticket. But the waste - the 12 euros - came to support the state for the investments it made or makes at airports, and in the case of water routes it is not in any way involved in them. I would also like to stress - although we have pointed it out to the committees - that the wording of Article 6(3) is incomplete, since it does not provide for what is the case in the event that the partners of the EIA or IKE are legal or legal and not only natural persons. In the case of partners that are multi-participating or listed companies, it is clear that the analogous application of the provision, as formulated, will be difficult to implement. We expect you to see this even in the "and five" to have a legislative improvement. We are now going to the second large chapter of the bill, to urban road transport: it is about redefining the institutional framework for the award of public road transport work under Union legislation, in accordance with Regulation 1370/2007. It seems to be a simple instrument of ratification that will allow Member States to apply it globally and globally. However, it should have been prioritised for this consultation and processing. There was no consultation on this part of the bill. In the debate and in the hearing of committees, the points made by the bodies were important, and the Minister - I have to say this - proceeded with the necessary legislative improvements. Apart from the fact that Article 40 exempted the municipalities of Rhodes and Kos, it allows public road transport and in small island municipalities, thus allowing the municipality concerned to be a contractor. It is worth emphasising that they are positive and the changes that the Minister has accepted in Article 45 to call for competitions - legislative improvements - as they have been proposed. In other words, on the day of the tender, the interested parties should have the intended number of buses, the necessary experience and the staff who will be employed will be able to use, to have quality urban transport and to have the conditions of participation of all the tenderers themselves. I would also like to refer to the amendment tabled again by the entities representing the bourgeois CBS, for the supply facilities for buses. They are asking for this right and at the same time for the fire department to have the certificate of safety, as is also the system of input-output, so that there is no smuggling in these areas. However, they call for it not to be necessary to permit establishment and operation, where the great cost is, in relation to environmental studies. We say that there is no specific permit for installation and operation. We agree with all the other things that need to be done, because we believe that in housing - parking - fuel supply can be provided in the fleet of the CCTBs and only to achieve lower prices to reduce operating costs, exclusively for the supply of privately owned or leased buses. I should stress that the adoption of this proposal does not pose any risk, as the facilities concerned with the fleet of the bourgeois CBC are not used for boarding or disembarking or waiting or any other passenger transaction. In conclusion, once again I would like to say that this bill to be effective and thriving, needs to have a philosophy and create an investment environment. Waterways can be a good starting point for investment initiatives, both for public and private entities. After all, our country today has a great need for investment. That is why, in principle, we voted for the bill that will strengthen our country's development and tourism. In relation to the second part, for urban transport, we believe that it ensures the transport of passengers with quality urban transport, while modernising the institutional framework. I would like, Minister, to raise a point about the amendments. An important amendment concerning the OSCE and OSCE was tabled, without anyone presenting it to the committees. He was filed last night. There was no discussion. And I ask: will any Minister come in to analyse this amendment? Mr President, we must ensure that the amendments are put to the vote because they are very important, perhaps more than the articles on urban transport. But because both Thessaloniki and Attica are excluded, an amendment is coming at night, which is probably going to privatise the OSCE and OSCE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. Mrs Zaroulia, a special buyer of the Golden Dawn, has the floor. I'm asking you for time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, can we have information on the amendments? As our rapporteur spoke, two ministerial amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u12	After Mrs Zaroulia, I will give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u13	I can have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u14	You're welcome, Mrs. Zarulia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u15	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the Production and Trade Committees the third political force of the country, the Golden Dawn Association, suffered an inappropriate attack by the President-in-Office of the Council, Dritsa, with insurmountable charges, etc. I don't want to keep going, I'm just going to testify for the Minutes who our prosecutors are. I have here the explanatory statement of 28 June 2016 and the ratification of the concession agreement of the PPA, where Dritsas put his signature wide - wide - at the time he had made his flag, at the time he had made his own choice of not allowing his sale. His leader, however, had other plans and took care to expose him irreparably and life to his left-wing clientele at the port of agony. These are for the Minutes. [[At this point, Member Eleni Zaroulia submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Here to show that it is his signature: Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Theodoros Dritsas. Let us now come to the draft law on water, urban road transport and other provisions. Through this bill - and in particular the first part - the government is ambitious to stimulate the investment climate and to provide opportunities for investors in the hydroplanes sector to invest in the country. Let me make it clear that no one can oppose the development and development of this place. Obviously, the water roads are also a suitable area for investment, since for some fifteen years there has been an extremely unstable environment for these activities. A few things have been done since 2003, and from then on, when the then Minister of Transport in the PASOK Government had predicted the operation of water. Law 3333/2005 on the establishment of airports on the water surface referred to the regulation of critical issues in a presidential decree, which was never adopted. In order not only to blame PASOK, however, at the same wavelengths, the then Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, in 2012, had also moved the then Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, when he had announced the construction through PPP of a water service as a central base in Attica and twelve smaller in the region. Finally, only Volos worked on temporary leave, while inactive the remaining twenty were left throughout the territory officially licensed. Subsequent Law 4146/2013 did not favour the development of a suitable water network, as there were bureaucratic claws, judicial involvements and pressures from competitive sectors. Three more years have elapsed this time until the new SYRIZA - ANEL government bill is put into consultation and another twenty-four months until it finally comes to Parliament's work and vote. It is therefore understandable - from 2000 onwards - that all governments have been responsible for shutting down water and opposing any development prospects. I shall now refer to some provisions. As far as Articles 4 and 6 are concerned, we are opposed to the authorisation of water in areas subject to NATURA 2000. No authorisation should be granted for establishment in such areas, as the purpose of protecting these areas is to preserve and promote protected areas in order to form local poles of sustainable development. Here is the great section with L.4146, as the authorisation process is divided into two stages to differentiate the holder of the licence for the establishment of a water service from the holder of the licence for the operation and operation of the water service - as mentioned - the support, facilitation and promotion of public-private partnership synergies, PPP. The private initiative is therefore encouraged, and partnership with the public - PPP programmes - it is not a safety net in the public interest, especially when we see corporate schemes involving national co-operatives. As for an earlier "dispute" between the Government and the Civilian Responsibility Officer, regarding publications released under the title "The government blocks privatisations and brakes investment", we have to say that these are ashes in the eyes of the world, since you both have finally planned our country's course as a debt colony and interest that will be legislated on the order of specific business interests. It goes without saying that you want us to continue to depend on different interests, since, according to information, one of the reasons for the delay in tabling this bill was that it had to obtain the relevant permission from the Committee on Transport and Mobility. It is foreseen that authorisations may also be granted to natural persons who have their registered office in Greece or another European Union country, provided that in the latter case an representative based in the country is appointed. So the investments will be made. Let us not forget how many times substitutes or rivals are simply a window of foreign companies based in tax havens within the European Union, which we have shown many times, so there are no fair competition rules but there are no profits from state funds. Another issue that exists - and I would like to stand - concerns the waterways where flights are made from and to countries which have not ratified the Schengen Treaty referred to in Article 4(8). I would remind you that in the past a number of investors had withdrawn interest because of developments in refugees and because of whether our country would remain within Schengen. Finally, it seems that the enclaved refugee flows in our country do not hit anyone, and as we have ports called the 'Schengen gate', the same will happen with the water routes. If we look at this now in combination with the possibility of establishing and operating waters by public bodies, then the Schengen question has been resolved, as it is foreseen that the public can operate such facilities if there is no other interested body. That's in Article 29. Then foreign investors have nothing to fear, because their interests are safeguarded and the public will take care to deal with illegal immigrants. It would be useful, and it would be useful if criteria were to be laid down, which would determine the type of water in an inland or external waterway. The seaplanes undoubtedly have several advantages compared to the other maritime means of transport. They cover a wide range of flights, have the ability to take off and land on land, but also on a water surface, they are environmentally friendly, the time to travel is much shorter than the corresponding journey by boat and the cost of less than the airplane. When N.4146/2013 voted, I had said attributes: "The waters, as well as the operation of the water, are in agreement with us, as long as the investment is made in the service of the citizens, the price of the computers should be affordable and our compatriots in the islands should be able to transport them." With the present and in particular Article 21, tariff formation is not subject to any control and restriction and will be formed by the operator of the water supply, with the aim of ensuring its viability. Therefore, under the rules of free competition, no one can guarantee the low cost and whether the cost of the valet of the average taxpayer Greek citizen can be borne. As long as, in order to facilitate the movement of our compatriots, this is called into question in this draft bill, since you are already emphasising the consistent development of tourism, and you are not talking about - but about the use of waterplanes which are valuable when it comes to social services, such as an aerospace or an emergency transport of goods at points in the territory where no other means of transport is approached. Article 22 stipulates that the fee for departing passengers is 5% of the net fare, and by decision of the Minister for Infrastructure the fee per flight piece will be established. Both fees are in favour of the Ministry, not of the public or the relevant municipal OTAs and will in fact go directly to the special account of the Ministry and will be used to finance the water supply, since we are talking about construction, maintenance, electronic systems, subsidising water-plane lines on remote islands or limited passenger traffic. The private sector will therefore exploit the waters, but the state will pay for them. Article 29 is the one to which the only reference is made for the possibility of establishing and operating a public water service where there is no other interested party. It is clear, therefore, that investors have priority for the destinations they are interested in, that is, the isolated islands, the barren lines, are left in the public eye. You create, in short, yourself, investments of two speeds and automatically reduce public participation in the process. Investors on the farm and oversee their most tourist destinations will be the good ones and the state will be the bad thing if something goes wrong with a metaphor on an isolated island or in another difficult area. The Minister at the last meeting of the committee referred, among other things, to the electronic system, namely: "Since it becomes an electronic system, it will obviously work and monitor the various approvals in the form of a physical file, but we have shown that we are making the electronic systems quickly. We will also work with the Chamber of Technical Chamber, which requested it, on this subject and has experience of it." We have said that, however good it is your intention to create electronic systems in order to reduce bureaucracy, time and effort, we cannot demonstrate that many times they are malfunctioning or accept such a burden so that they are out of service. Of course, the physical file is always a safeguard. However, the functionality of the system should be ensured. The fact that Article 30 provides for the operation of a year after the issue of a relevant CSM - paragraph 4 - can give us precedent for the time obstacles that will exist during this year, at a time when, at the moment, you are talking about dozens of applications that will go ahead in order to put the waterways into operation in 2019. As regards the concessions of ports, marinas, etc., the Minister said that if there is no water supply in the original contracts and the master plan, the placement of a water service will later come for ratification in Parliament, as will be done with the Trinity Trade Center. Even if we assume that they will incur large sums of money from this contract into the state funds, it will not stop a water route being an asset, guaranteeing goodwill to their owners. It is no coincidence that with initiative and pressure from the TDIDED, the water route was licensed in Corfu and "run" respectively, the procedures for the water routes in Paxos, Patras, Lavrio, Agia Marina, Heraklion, Alexandroupolis, Thessaloniki, Volos and elsewhere. Let me now refer to the principle of Flight Coordination under Article 51. Provisions concerning the functioning of the National Flight Coordination Authority, a legal person under private law, non-profit-making, established by Law 4233/2014, are amended in place of the Flight Coordination Authority of Law 3534/2007. Therefore, it is not a new Authority. Redefinition of the composition of the members of the authority, the fees for the services provided by the authority per airport manager, the issues regulated by the Rules of Procedure of the internal organisation and operation and the issues relating to the process of recruiting private law for an indefinite period. The problems of principle are many. It operates without permanent staff, while its operational project is supported by annual project contracts by external partners and there is an AACC competition that remains suspended. The present provisions create twenty-five new permanent posts and two of them will be covered by lawyers. It is clear, therefore, that this is once again a 'parent' step, always aimed at 'to ensure the uninterrupted and uninterrupted functioning of the principle'. The Minister spoke of the independence of the authority. And I would like to say on this - as our special speaker, when No 4233 was voted on - that it should be ensured by the OHIM and the Air Force, as well as that it could be staffed by personnel that the Air Force would have. Nevertheless, we would very much like an extensive debate to take place on the role of the independent authorities and how their independence, as the Minister has proposed, is guaranteed, since you have created and served not only a few 'independent authorities'. To conclude, the bill contains interesting provisions for which we could be positive in a different light. Its development is called into question, as is the benefit of our national economy. We recognise the advantages that our country could possibly have, although your own policy was different and you did not focus on the interests of individuals and you did not reduce the social dimension of investment. Once again, however, you are called upon to obey the rules of the free economy, and you do not give the minimum opportunity to the public, the state, to develop public structures in full. The problem of islands and remote islands will not be resolved. Nor will the people of these regions benefit, who hope they will have a means of transport that will be carried out more than once a week or every fifteen days, who want to hope that no one has forgotten them. It would be a good opportunity - like the previous legislatures, if there were different principles - if the Greek citizen were at the centre. As long as it is not and while you bring bills that include anti-social, anti-linguistic, anti-national and rhysphetological provisions for a few of yours, we cannot be your supporters in this work. And of course, let us not forget that this bill comes to complete the order of those bills that have sold everything out in this country. Motorways, railways, ports, airports, etc. They are in the hands of large business groups, and should be under the exploitation and control of the state. It's true that anything that's moving and flying right now is private. However, this does not mean that we must accept it without any objections, without any criticism, without any will to change it. If we want to talk about the licensing and development of waterways, we need to create a hydroplanes industry, because this is the only way that the market will be competitive and through industry the need for their sustainability will emerge and it will be for the benefit of the Greek people and the national economy. That is why the People's Association - Golden Dawn will vote against. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One minute I would like to refer to an amendment, Mr President. The amendment is 1760, which concerns exemption from HNVO for fire-fighting areas. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to information and communication technology equipment and services of the ‘Environment’ policy area in the ‘Environment’ policy area of the ‘Environment’ policy area of the ‘Environment’ policy area of the ‘Environment’ and ‘Environment’ of the ‘Environment’ of the ‘Environment’ of the ‘Environment’ policy area of the ‘Environment’ of the ‘Environment’ of the ‘Environment’ of the ‘Environment’ of the ‘Environment’ of the ‘Environment’ of Obviously, we are positive for any measure that you bring and is favourable to our compatriots affected by the murderous fires. However, this measure should not only apply for the current year but also for as long as property cannot be used, since their restoration already entails a significant financial burden for their holders. The provision should also be generalised and applied to alleviate the natural disasters affected in areas which have been declared in an emergency. Finally, it is unnecessary to say that, by taking the opportunity, you could completely abolish HPAI, which you said you would abolish it anyway. We are in favour of this amendment. For the rest, we will then be placed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twelve students and students and two educational attendants from the 14th Agaleo Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason for this is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Manolakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u17	The draft law is discussed in the shadow of the draft state budget of 2019, which incorporates all the anti-grass measures of the three Memorandums, of course we also have the addition of new ones. Whatever scenario prevails, whatever the trick you do, one thing is certain, it is a budget that goes hand in hand with the escalation of anti-grass policy, both in the part of further collapse of all kinds of social costs and benefits left to the people's families and the part of taxation. So today's bill cannot and is not extracted from the government's overall anti-popular policy. It is a bill that is part of the National Strategic Transport Plan that will be promoted major construction projects and that will be paid by the people. They are mainly concerned with facilitating the transport of goods, but also with the provision of infrastructure for the tourism industry, in order to attract new profitable investments for capital. It forms part of the large volume of infrastructure projects that will mobilise over the coming years huge financial resources, euphoria and high expectations of profitability in monopolies and business groups. The focus, therefore, is to satisfy the needs of the monopolistic groups and therefore to satisfy the popular needs is sacrificed on the altar of capitalist profit. The core of your policy is not to satisfy people's needs, but to ensure that the development process is motivated by capitalist profit. So investors, capitalists make an investment, because they want profits - so they do not do it for any other reason - by exploiting popular needs, of course, by exploiting beaches, saints, large sea areas, rich production sources and new technology. That is the purpose. And when there's no profit incentive, they don't make any investments at all, even though they have overcompensated funds. So the development term, which you propaganda, is nothing neutral, but deep classic. It concerns capitalist development based on the obscene labour force, which is guaranteed by laws of the type Brutsi-Achtsoglou, and on competition. A characteristic example is this bill, both for the development of water, but also for the issue of urban passenger transport. First, do you need water and hydroplanes? We have no objection to sea transport as a complement to sea transport, which must also be developed and covered all year round the needs of the islanders and not to be left over the winter months, and especially the remote islands, even on barren lines that are indifferently subsidised by the state budget and put into the pockets of the shipowners. You are planning on where the waters will be built in order to facilitate business groups that will have companies with hydroplanes and provide it in Article 4. So what are you doing? You correct the law of the New Democracy - PASOK of 2013 at those points that made it difficult for individuals to make profit and not, of course, for islanders. First, you are separating the authorisation procedure into two stages so that the holder of the water supply, if he wishes, is differentiated from the holder of the licence to operate and operate the water supply. In fact, it is clear from the principle that the authorisation to set up, i.e. infrastructure, is issued in the name of an OTA or a port fund or an organisation of ports, a body or a body of the public and the general public. This is the solution that serves, on the one hand, the large companies, the potential water exploitation and operation investors, who will find and have ready infrastructures to operate their hydroplanes, but also favours the construction capital, since, in the form of PPPs, you are building these general public infrastructures. In addition, as we speak, the capitalists had no funds for the issue of a single licence for the establishment and operation of a waterway. Generally, capital prefers to find ready-made infrastructure that the state has built from the people's money, so that it does not have maintenance costs and thus gain more, faster and secure profits. The same is the case with airports, ports, EYDAP and so forth, which are best facilitated by the multiannual concessions. However, infrastructure for hospitals and children's stations or for flooding projects is not being built, because they concern people's needs and do not leave profits to capitalists and let people drown and destroy property that has been built with life's labor. This is not only about the recent storm, but also heavy rainfall. Mandra, what was it? It's a heavy rainfall. Why? Because he didn't have any anti-military work. So, for business groups you find and promote simpler, flexible and realistic processes that facilitate and accelerate their profitability. Secondly, there was a problem for business groups with the requirement of environmental licensing for the operation of water. So, what are you doing in this bill? With an alibi that this is a very time-consuming process, the need for an environmental impact study on the license is disappearing, and for the establishment of the waters you allow them to be created in Natura areas too, it is enough for the Ministry of the Environment to agree, when the same permits for wind turbines in such Natura areas. Why shouldn't he give me water? This is your policy, like the previous ones, and the New Democracy and the PASOK, you are putting the profits above the needs of people and the environment. It is one who, in order to maximize its profit, allows him to destroy what belongs to the many and the next generations. Of course, the route of hydroplanes to various destinations cannot replace maritime transport, but will always be complementary. The question of water supply is therefore not about the needs of the islands for the uninterrupted connection of the islands with mainland Greece and between them, but about another case for the business groups that will be subsidized by Community programmes and the state budget and have no risk. You do not, however, grant a subsidy to thousands of people who do not have to pay the instalments of their housing loans because they have been in unemployment and are on the lists of electronic auctions. On the contrary, you voted for a law characterising mobilisations against auctions for a specific offence to protect the banks' profits. What else are you doing? At the same time, you will allow the water tariffs to be limited by a joint ministerial decision, but to be fixed by the water operator, i.e. the private person, in order to ensure the viability of the waters, in accordance with the real market conditions. You call this innovative investment opportunities with significant development prospects. This is the development you are propagandaing and it is not about popular strata. It is the development of profits for the capital and the pricking of the private level of the people. As far as the second part of the bill is concerned, the anti-grassroots institutional framework of urban road passenger transport is being strengthened, in the context of the application of Euro-Union legislation, further expanding the entry of private-sector and municipal-sector consortia, with public-public partnerships, i.e. PPPs. Basically, you promote the full development of business activity on the basis of profit, increasing burdens on the working class and the popular strata. In fact, you are using as a pretext to ensure the continuous provision of urban passenger transport, ensuring that each time the relevant Minister is able to issue a concession notice to private road haulage companies. Although the bill stipulates that its provisions relate to thirty-four cities in Greece, which did not include passenger transport of Athens and Thessaloniki, with the last night's ministerial amendment you tabled, you also include the urban transport of Athens and Thessaloniki. We protest because you did not say anything in the debate in the committee to cover, at least, the representatives of the workers. Well, surprise. It is obvious, since you are promoting the further privatisation of urban transport by hitting labour rights in the industry and increasing the cost of the popular family so that there is a maximisation of capitalist profitability. That's your plan. However, for this amendment I would like to say that you know that there are too many problems in transport. 50% to 60% of the buses are immobilised. There have been no spare parts for many years and with previous governments. They take fire even with the driver at the wheel and the man cannot do anything, while every day the people who use them draws them Odyssey to get to work or home. And what solution do you give? Design to penetrate individuals to win a new sector. Of course, the Minister can give the dock fillets. You therefore need urban transport to further privatise them. Besides, you build an alibi. Meaning? To be able, as you say in Article 35, to ‘in the event of a shutdown of passengers throughout the public road transport network of that service or an imminent risk of interruption, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport shall have the power to take emergency measures’. In other words, it may issue a contract for the award of public road transport concessions or direct public service concessions in the event that the tender does not thrive. In fact, in any case, the provider to be displayed will be compensated, i.e. ‘hot’ of money, the amount of which will be determined by the Minister with criteria such as kilometre distances, population and others. The Minister will also set the period of the award, and the regulation proposes that the award should be as long as possible in order to be attractive to businesses. We are voting against the bill. We consider it to be a unique solution, which contributes the majority to addressing the real needs for people to move across the territory, to the urban and urban network, firstly, to the creation of a single state transport agency, with a central scientific design, which will take into account, not the profitability of consortia and business groups, but the modern needs for the movement of working class and people's classes. Secondly, the design that will include the movement of people for work, for school, for leisure and entertainment, which will meet needs throughout the year. Thirdly, a single vehicle operator using the entire fleet of the country's vehicles, tourists, ultra-urban, semi-urban, urban, all integrated into a single interconnected network, local, regional, national, utilization of the infrastructures for the construction and maintenance of heavy goods vehicles, which will continuously renovate the rolling stock. This is how material needs are met, but we also have the workforce to make use of. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude with a question about the amendment on ENVY to firefighting. It's positive, but why do you re-check by 27 September? Why don't you let it go? People will come out while they deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, too. The rapporteur for the ANE, Mr Katsikis, has the floor. Here, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u19	Perhaps sooner, Mr President. Thank you. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are establishing a clear legislative framework governing the operation and establishment of water routes throughout the territory, while at the same time laying the foundations for the reform of the urban roadmap, in accordance with the proposed arrangements laid down in the draft law. The project promoted by the leadership of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure aims to overcome the deadlocks that characterise the current situation, in which, on the basis of the current legislative framework, the transport sector through hydroplanes has been imprisoned in a ten-year period of mourning, inertia and virtually zero progress, despite the fact that the first examples of the operation of the waterways have been encouraging and hopeful in the period 2004-2008. At the same time, I would say that the field of urban road transport needs institutional upgrading and modernisation based on the needs of local communities, the protection of labour rights and, of course, the guarantee of the public interest. As far as the third part of the draft law is concerned, of course, the changes that are being promoted in the functioning of the National Flight Coordination Authority are being made in the light of the modernisation of it, but also its harmonisation with European and international rules, in order to gain the special weight it deserves, on the basis of its obligations and responsibilities. Returning now to the first part of the draft law and waterplanes, I believe that one of the decisive comparative advantages that makes investment attractive, but also the development prospects prosperous, is the fact that the creation of water-saving facilities is not required, when the required small water surfaces exist in abundance on the Greek territory in a situation - if you want - waiting for use. So at a time when our country meets the morphological standards that favour water facilities, it remains the obligation now of the state to institutionalise that legal framework, which will then allow it to choose, on the right criteria, those areas that are to be exploited. This is precisely what the government chooses to do, introducing this bill, at a time when it is crucial for the national economy. The Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure through a two-year consultation involving stakeholders from the public and private sectors, in cooperation with the Ministry of Shipping and the Environment, is now ambitious to reduce bureaucracy and speed up the procedures that serve both the public interest and the daily needs of the citizens of the remote island country. In particular, with regard to the barren lines, we must avoid past practices which have led to the isolation and desertification of several islands in the country, as we know that the number of permanent inhabitants has fallen on those islands that have not been included in the regular air connection with the inland waterway over the past few decades. Basically, the objective of this draft law is a national strategy for developing the country's transport network, with the aim of exploiting means of transport to the benefit of citizens, throughout the year, especially on fertile air and steam lines. With regard to the short-term timetable for implementing the provisions of this draft law, I welcome the intention of the head of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure to plan, Minister, on paper, and prepare for Christmas, as you announced from here on the Step, the original plan of the Government with the new aquariums, which should be developed across the ground. In the right direction, I believe, there is also the intention of the Ministry to issue until spring authorisations specifically for remote islands, with a view to operating water routes, either through mixed public-private partnership schemes or under public supervision only. With regard to the objections raised - the objections I would say better - regarding the inapplicability of the law for those marinas and ports that have already been allocated to individuals, I think the Minister's reply is sufficient, clear and understandable to everyone. In fact, I find it perfectly reasonable that the state should want to obtain an additional revenue at the time when the initial concession contract, as was said about the port of Piraeus, did not provide for the establishment and operation of a water service. It is self-evident for the Greek state to want to acquire an extra price, when it gives the individual another chance to invest. With regard to the second part of urban passenger transport, it is necessary to link networks across the territory, to involve urban transport in the daily transport of residents, and to provide quality services of general interest. The Ministry has opened tenders for the award of public passenger transport concessions on the basis of passenger needs, geographical data and proposals from the municipal authorities, while retaining the right to direct award or even to extend the existing contract in exceptional cases, in order to offer the public services on a continuous basis. This proposed provision of Article 47 I consider it necessary, ladies and gentlemen, as it ensures the public interest and applies only as an exceptional measure, and the extension of the existing concession contract is not expected to exceed two years. In summary, I believe that the proposed provisions of Part Two broaden the basis of potential investors through the introduction of joint ventures, private business groups and municipal companies through public-private partnerships. In addition, they are reshaping existing legislation on the protection of the public interest and the protection of workers, while allowing flexible decisions to be taken to ensure the smooth provision of services. Ladies and gentlemen, in discussing and examining the proposed provisions contained in the draft law, the leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has shown flexibility and flexibility, but, above all, it has shown political will and determination to draw up a new national transport plan across Greece. In this effort, the Independent Greeks are partners and helpless and we are voting in favour, as we also stressed at committee meetings, this draft law, defending the public interest and upgrading the quality of life of Greek citizens. Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the two of the five amendments which were tabled and analysed during committee meetings. For the other three, I reserve, if necessary, to be placed in my dentistry. I shall start with Amendment No 1760 and number 31, which we are voting for. We agree with the content and text of this amendment. Refers to the exemption for firefighting from the payment of the single property tax. The beneficiaries of the exemption now include all firefighters who hold the re-check form of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and not exclusively those whose properties had been destroyed or found to be non-resident. The exemption from the HNVA concerning immovable property situated in areas of the Attica region, affected by the fires of 23 and 24 July of this year - may also be the region I am serving - is substantially extended, since the owners of these property are holders of the re-control notes of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport issued until 27 September 2018 and at the crucial time the ownership or other property rights are owned by the person liable for tax for that year. These are property which, as I said, bear re-checks from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport indicating red, yellow and green, of course with damage. I conclude with the amendment No 1764 and with a special reference to 33 of the same Ministry. Of course, I consider it fair and necessary to accept and vote for it, since, first of all, as regards the planned execution of urban and long-distance services, within the areas within the competence of the Urban Transport Organisation, the OSCE, and the Thessaloniki Transport Project Agency, that is to say, OSH, it is possible to take place by another transport operator following the conclusion of a bilateral contract between the companies concerned. In this way, I believe that the work of services is being extended by strengthening both the frequency of services and the reliability of the services provided, which is of course for the benefit of the passenger and the citizen. The obligation of Attica and Thessaloniki to join the telematic system afterwards and to introduce electronic ticketing systems, and even within four months of the adoption of the law, I believe that it is moving in the right direction towards modernising the services provided. It is now necessary and imperative. It is a measure already in force in other modes of transport. Finally, guaranteeing the reliability of the services provided to citizens, I believe that it establishes, as a measure for the control of routes, the imposition of fines in the same amendment. In other words, these fines will be imposed by the Minister's decision and will amount to EUR 2 000 when no fixed route is made, and they are doubled in the event of a return to EUR 4,000. I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized, thirty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 4th High School of St. Anargyra (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We proceed to the next special speaker from the river, Mr. Psariano. Please, Mr. Psariano, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are talking about a few people here, a bill - more we were in committee, where various things were said in detail - establishing a new transport operator, a new mode of transport in our country concerning water and waterplanes. If we were a normal country, that would have been done for at least thirty years. It is a bill that is in the right direction, but I have to say that there are a number of whims between government MPs and even ministers, perhaps, because we are in an intra-government conflict. And I don't mean the extreme contradictions of political positions between SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, who are three speak and two dance in Macedonian and not only. We're talking inside SYRIZA itself. And within the SYRIZA teams and within the groups of groups around SYRIZA, the former PASOK or various others formerly and now right-wing, involved in this multi-party conflict, there are two logics that collide. One is an insurmountable state, where some would like to have some kind of new soviet with colloises and souvhoz, with groups of workers or so-called workers, who other people do what they work and others do what they are paid for, as in the existing non-existent. This great conflict between these two logics can be bridged when a favoured state cares for workers in health, education, welfare, transport, services, justice, everywhere. It is a state and it is an arbitrator and it is the one that sets the laws and defines the field where cooperation is to be conducted and, where appropriate, it will balance conflicts where they appear. Conflicts may occur between groups of workers or so-called workers, cosy, ostensibly, ostensibly, benefactors, where no one is interested in the private sector. The private sector is completely dispersed and some would like to see that appointments, ruffles and "shoot" are made to state bodies and state transport services, education, health, welfare, etc. This is the one logic of state-of-the-art state-of-the-art. The other is the logic of non-existent neoliberal logic, non-existent liberalism, where everything is regulated by itself in the market and the economy and the state do not need to intervene or take care of anything, because they are all settled on their own. These two logics are disastrous when one collisions with the other when we cannot agree on basic things. We're a country with fifteen thousand miles of coastline. From here to the Philippines is our coastline, don't say to the Cook Islands. I have not counted on the ground floor how much is fifteen thousand kilometres, but it is the largest coastline in Europe, the coastline of Greece, the coastline of the Greek coastline of the islands and the islands and I think it is the seventh in the world. When, therefore, the barons of the ferry are struggling here, the workers' and supposed workers' guilds, which open up bottles, shut down ports, oppose any modernism or any application of recipes or activities that occur and can take place in favoured societies, this story cannot continue, can not be developed in the country if the state does not regulate private sector activities and initiatives. We have the largest coastline in Europe and the seventh I think the world is the largest and we do not have any water routes. For ten years this debate has been taking place. Two years is consultation about this bill or this story. Potami and I personally have asked cat questions on several occasions in Greece do not work on destinations that are not served by the ferry, which are not served by airlines, because this is what we are preventing. Let me tell you why. Why did we have a cabotage on the cruises for forty years? He was allegedly concerned about the interests of workers in shipping. And a ship that came to Greece, a cruise ship, could not tie up a second time to a Greek port unless it had a Greek crew. If a ship came from Barcelona or Marseille, then some miles outside the Greek territorial waters would have to change its crew and put a Greek crew in order to be able to tie to a Greek port for a second time. This insanity has ruined us for decades and gave us a gift to neighbours, especially in Turkey, a huge number of cruises, marinas. Do we have a hundred marinas? If we have a hundred marinas, the Turks have five hundred against them, and we should have a thousand and fifty of them. And that is not what I am saying at the outset, but I say it because in this country in whatever proposal was made to change things and the way we implement services, activities and so on, there were half of us who might want it and the other half who were with black flags across borders. So now I hear people who are in the government or in the government - 'passporters' of the government, who say 'we're saying 'why do we want the waterways now and the water planes?', 'what is this now, James Bond gonna do with waterplanes?' That logic has entangled us, braked us and brought us to this dead end. Because we are only interested in serving or serving small groups of interests for their own interests, indifferent to the public interest and to the social benefit as a whole. This logic brought us black flags against the Cultural Foundation "Stavros Niarchos", against the Megaron of Music, against the Egnatia Road, against the Attica Odos, against the Athens Region, against the metro, against the hiking of Ermos, against whatever was proposed, against the Rios-Antirio Bridge. Because some of the slippers and slippers that drive the cars around were against them and many local residents, mobilized by micro-groups of micro-enterprises, strongly opposed the construction of the bridge. In whatever improvement is made in trains, in ports, in airports, for the privatization of ports and airports, we are half the people across the street. Why are we doing this in this country? Is it to the national, in the social interest and in the public interest? This bill conflicts with the very logic of half-government. We believe that it is in the right direction, not because it will give the great interests and the great debts of capital the opportunity to perpetuate and drink the blood with waterplanes and waterways, which will build uncontrolled and do nothing they like. Because I think there is a state that can balance them, control them, refer to and determine the rules on which any activity takes place - by the public body, because it is the same - by the private body or by cooperation and synergies between the public and the private sector. Why too many of us are we across the street? Why are we against coming - say - Greek advisors to the Greek universities from the best universities in the world and kicked them out, why don't we? Because there's the masonry of ours, who don't like others coming. We have said that this bill first we vote on it, we support it. We have also mentioned to the committee improvements, we have made specific proposals - I do not now want to extend to them - and in some articles we will disagree if they have not changed. I have to say that amendments have been made to this bill just today, fresh, like oven coups, with hot paper. We've got them in our hands now. We should have discussed this by the first committee, by the second committee, at the hearing of the bodies. Why have some amendments now come? Why don't they expect us to vote and bring it back and change it in six months if it doesn't work? That's a logic too. I think this story should go ahead. I think that the water and waterplanes should work. The state must have the care and control of those who are active in this area and we must move on quickly, beforehand. It should have happened already. In any other European country such a project would have been carried out for years. But here, we are very difficult, embarrassing - let us not use words from 'two' -, with the result that huge billions of billions are expropriated and we are spreading from here and there again to serve micro-enterprises, instead of trying to open up in market sectors, in areas that bring growth, to facilitate business and business to invest in our country in all areas of activity and thus cause growth and the creation of dozens of thousands of jobs in any sector, whether in the private or public sector or in cooperation, in synergy. But we do not want to do that, gentlemen of the government. We want to take care of our customers in public. There are MPs and two, three ministers who are confronted with the other two, three - let me not mention, but now, again, other issues, internal, intra-government conflicts more thoroughly - and there are reasonable grounds for saying that these things should not go any further. We're in favour of the bill. We have to say that here some of the first basic observations we have to make are that it is not possible for water to be built in areas that are NATURA, which are protected at any level. It can't be done everywhere. We need to see how it's going to happen and where. Three waterways have already been licensed in the Ionian Sea and nothing has been done. I remember a few years ago that there were some yellow boats on the coast waiting for Lavrio to go to Samos, Chios, Lesvos, Samothraki, Sporades, and still to the Dodecanese. Speedboats, from Lavrio. Not to go from Piraeus in twelve hours. Going from Lavrio to three, two, depending on destination. They expect them to be licensed not only by this government, but also by previous governments. They never got permission. Why? Because some did not like to give them permission, because they considered it contrary to the interests of small groups and to the great interests of boaters. We know names and addresses. We know how much the tickets cost. It's cheaper to go and come to Stockholm and Copenhagen than to go and come to Rhodes or, worse, to Karpathos or Kastelorizo. This way, with waterplanes and aqueducts, we can make it easier for the story with the barren lines and access to destinations that are currently inaccessible, they are careless, it is incomprehensible that you can get up with your family, with your friend, with your wife, with your husband and go, for example, to Agathonisi. You better go to Jakarta! You can't go to the Forks easily. You go, of course, easier than going to the Antikythera, for example. We have thousands of islands, we have hundreds of islands inhabited, to which we do not have access to reality, or the access we have is extremely expensive. In the details, in some of which we have also referred to the Commission, where we have heard various things from operators, we must say that we need to protect the NATURA zones, we must protect the areas which may be affected by such a process or which do not need to be done now in the first place. Also, for urban transport, which will assist in this direction, one must not be afraid that interests will be affected because there is a state that takes care of them. If the state does not exist, let the various guilds perpetuate and let each group do whatever it likes. The state exists. We have proposed some changes. I don't know which ones can be accepted. I will only give you one example. We suggested changing a word. It says "manufacture" for the waterways. We have proposed, instead of the word'manufacture', that we say 'implementation' or 'creation'. We were told that the legal department that controls, cares or compresses the bills said that the words 'creation' or 'implementation' cannot be used. There must be the word'manufacture'. Isn't that funny? Isn't this a legal joke, a trick? It is not very decisive whether we will say'manufacture' or 'creation' or 'implementation'. But it has a big difference. It's not decisive, but the difference exists. Why do we stick to such details to prevent bigger things? I'm asking people who are against the bill again. I'm against the government, against the whole street, I'd say anything. I wouldn't vote for anything from this government. But in this bill I cannot say 'no' because the internal conflict of government between them must be solved. I'm not gonna untie her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u22	Finish, Mr. Fisherman.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u23	I shall conclude, Mr President. I will not solve it if we are going to be a new Soviet state or a normal state favoured, where there is cooperation and synergy between the public and private sectors. We'll support the bill. We will also make our remarks in plenary. We hope to implement quickly to prevent 2019. I am now telling you, of course, that it is not possible. I don't know if we're gonna make it through 2020. This process and activity will launch our tourism as it was launched by the lifting of the stupid cruise cabotage. In these things we need to be constantly open, because the minds, as Frank Zappa said, are like parachutes. They only work when they're open. They'll need parachutes and we have to remember them, keep them open with our brains. I hope that we will move on quickly, and if there are failures and imperfections, we have time of time or time to correct them. We don't have to make everything perfect right now. We can't do everything perfectly right now, let's do the basics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Fisher. Mr Georgiadis has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government today introduces a draft law which is actually broken into three, not to say four pieces. On the one hand, it concerns the establishment of the waters by Articles 1 to 32. The second part concerns urban road transport with Articles 33 to 49. The third part concerns some additional arrangements for the National Flight Coordination Authority, namely Articles 50 to 53 and the fourth part is the amendments. Once again we have amendments, and indeed the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, which are irrelevant to this draft law. They come here in plenary, they have not been discussed during the committees and once again we do not respect the reservations on the subject of the amendments, which we have mentioned many times. You are bringing amendments which you may not know for so long. Bring them to the committees to discuss them. I'm not saying joining the draft law or the draft you're bringing us. For good reasons may they come at the last minute, but should we wait during this House for amendments to be tabled? No one has understood, of course, why the SYRIZA - ANEL Government retreated in 2016 to promote a similar draft law, since at that time not only heavy bells had been announced, but also supposedly there were suggestions that within the next two years a network of whole Greek-wide water routes would have been completed, which would cover much of the relevant transport needs of our country. So what we are discussing today should have already been implemented, not just moved forward. Nevertheless, as a first comment, we could say that this proposal is of course welcome, even slowly, for the development of the water sector in our country, because, first of all, tourism will be strengthened, secondly, it will attract serious investment - I hope you will also bring investment to our country - and thirdly, it will help dozens of isolated, mainly island regions in Greece to have fast, alternative and we hope and cheaper interconnection with other parts of our country. The number of sixty-five has also been heard in committee for the waterways, for which there are also developments and we all hope that the competition in question will be intensified and that the necessary network will soon be developed. Some comments now on the draft law. First of all, on the question of the property status of Article 4, it appears to be better to separate the authorisation to set up that operation, as well as the fact that the licence to set up a water service is granted to a public body only, even though the Government shows the desire to concentrate on the management of everything. Because yes, any investor must be facilitated to a bureaucratic level with as few contacts as possible with the so-called 'carcedaurs', but more importantly, there is a national planning for the placement of water, as long as possible, so as to avoid a matching with the coastlines. I would like to say that we do not see the public-private partnership and the synergies they may have. However, we disagree with the provisions of Article 4(1) and Article 6(1), which speak of permits for establishment and operation, respectively, in areas which are permitted to be of mild or heavier activity - as you mentioned, Mr Minister, and you - to be defined within NATURA 2000 areas, because a water road is certainly not a mild activity and you know that very well, so we need to pay attention to how the water routes will be implemented. In the Central Association, we believe that no development process should take precedence over the environment and the protected areas. The suggestions you have left, Minister, concerning these regions, that they may not have been better defined in the past, really do not exist as an excuse and we would like you to explain a few things to us. We also disagree with paragraph 3 of Article 6 on granting authorisation to IKE, the so-called 'euro 1 company', as it is called trade. There must be a limit not only for partners and administrators, but also for some minimum capital thresholds to be set, ensuring minimum liquidity needs. We do not agree with the withdrawal referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 13 if for two consecutive years there is no flight work, because there is a serious possibility that some operators...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u26	This has been removed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u27	Is it removed? If it has been removed - it may have happened at the last minute - it is well removed. I don't keep going. We also disagree vertically for reasons of principle with Article 14, which provides for the setting up of a water committee, another body contributing to the enlargement of the State. In any case, a service must be competent and coordinate, but at last do something about the so-called'small state', about the fewer days' positions, and about the smaller number of bodies and committees. As far as the transitional provision in Article 31(2) is concerned, that is to say, allowing dismantled structures as a water infrastructure, we do not understand its usefulness, since the authorisation to set up is granted for an indefinite period. So there is no need for rough structures that will also create a bad image at the end of the day. You can understand that when we talk about wastewater, it is also a little arbitrary for the extension and the risks that this entails. Some questions are also raised in the explanatory statement that states that the draft law does not contravene Regulation 2017/352 of the European Union, because firstly, as mentioned, in this Regulation, there is not once the word "waterroads" or the alternative wording "airstrips" and, secondly, the main minister in the committee said, "Let me tell you that it was a long-term consultation with the Directorates of the European Commission, because there was no regulation on the operation of aeroplanes". We do not know if a mistake has been made, but we do not really want the obligations of those who are authorised to provide only at national level and not in any EU legislation. Let us now go to the second part on the issue of road passenger transport, where it is clear that a redefinition of the institutional framework is under Regulation 1370/2007. While at first these provisions were not relevant to Athens and Thessaloniki, but thirty-four cities with urban transport through CBEL and thirty-two of them through municipal transport, such as Rhodes and Kos, suddenly Amendment 1764/33 on both Athens and Thessaloniki. We consider it unacceptable that this should be done now in plenary and that the institutions have not been placed, that we as parties should not be placed in committee, because the transport of at least large urban towns is a very important issue. The issue is not negligible in general, since the CBELs, and this fleet serves nine vehicles and has over a thousand six hundred workers. So you understand that every award contest of a project concerned will automatically affect everyone. Let us now refer to Article 35, in which we have no objection to the authorisation given to the Minister of State to ensure the continued and smooth transport of passengers across the public road network in the event of a risk of stopping their provision by means of a tendering procedure, since it is among the services of general economic interest and must therefore be offered without delay. As for Rule 47, despite the fact that we generally do not agree with all sorts of direct awards, because in the past we have bad experiences, we do accept it as provided for in the above Regulation as compulsory application. However, we are firmly opposed to the planned enlargement operation once again in the State referred to in Article 46. Finally, stop these two-member, three-member, five-member committees of seven, eight, ten, fifteen, thirty-five people, because you refer to the setting up of a five-member committee, which in essence consists of eleven alternate members and the secretary, which concerns the monitoring committee for each convention to be made. As far as the amendment proposed by the Panhellenic Civil Aviation Federation is concerned, we believe that if we allow fuel storage tanks to be installed in areas for the parking or accommodation of the buses of the CCEE, then it will soon prove to be problematic, especially for reasons of non-compliance with safety standards and distances. As you can see, with fuels and intercepts we may also have such phenomena in these cases. It will be appropriate to ensure at least the proper functioning and the manner of specifications. I do not know if a proper study has been carried out on this. We are now going to the third part concerning the Flight Coordination Authority. We consider that a major problem arises from Article 51(2), which attempts to increase the mandate of the members of the Authority from three to five years. And along with the possibility of extending the term of office, in fact, members will be appointed for ten years, that is, for a very long time. That is unacceptable to us for the seriousness of a national authority. And they are an attempt to end up with this Authority in another SYRIZA massage. We also disagree for reasons of principle, because the number is not large, and in line with paragraph 14, where there are additional eight additional posts and a position of lawyer. The lack of staff invoked by the explanatory statement or the problems that the Authority may have, such as external partners, could easily be covered by transferring or extracting from the general public, and should not go on once again in the method of enlargement of the State and in the ‘days’ rally. We also find it unacceptable to ignore the Independent Public Procurement Authority, if its complaint, at least as far as Articles 13, 15, 31, 39, 40, 43, 45 and 47 are concerned. Minister, since the Public Procurement Act provides that the Authority must give prior opinion before the draft law is submitted to Parliament, they must be taken into account. So I don't know if the complaint is valid, and if it's based. We are waiting for some explanations on this, too. With regard to Amendment No 1760, and specific number 31, we naturally support the exemption from HISFOLI from fire-fighting property. For the amendment of public passenger cars to the regulation of driving licences, we will probably have'residences' because we do not consider that 100% of certain standards are provided for. To conclude, I would like to reiterate that we in the Centro Association are positive in creating water routes. First of all, their operation will clearly offer a development perspective. Secondly, it will bring some benefits to local communities. It will help the tourist expansion. It will also cover other social needs. And it will certainly help to limit the isolation that exists on islands and are not easily accessible through the means of transport that exist at the moment. However, the delays and drawbacks of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, as well as the way in which the interventions are implemented in urban road transport and in the Flight Coordination Authority, force us to be very close to voting'residents' in principle and on the whole. We shall, of course, be voting in this vote which will follow at the end of the sitting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Kouvelis, will support the two amendments, amend Articles 106 and 109, and amend Article 4412/2016. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these are two amendments. One of these concerns educational issues in particular for the Academy of Merchant Navy in Kalymnos. The second relates to an extension given with regard to the deadline set by Law 4504/2017. In Kalymnos, a Commercial Navy Academy is founded and will work within the month, no later than the beginning of November. There has been a problem. We do not have the position of the Director or the Deputy Director, in particular the Deputy Director, to apply for the duties of teachers, but they should be of higher education and should be teachers, assistant teachers and all the others mentioned in this level of education. So, with the amendment which I am referring to and requesting approval, the position of the Deputy Director can be taken by a university-level graduate, by those who serve in secondary education, by posting for a certain period of time. There has been no interest, I repeat, in such a request by anyone who has the status of professor or deputy professor. Once the amendment has been adopted - and I believe that it will be adopted - the duties of the Deputy Director with the posted director will be exercised by a teacher or teacher who will come, without the title of professor or deputy professor, from mid-school. That is the amendment which needs to be voted on, because this will allow us to operate in the Academy of Merchant Navy in Kalymnos. Let me give you an exhortation that we are promoting arrangements to support the large capital called seafarers' training. We want to strengthen the Commercial Navy Academy and establish, as we founded in Kalymnos, other Commercial Navy academies with the given, ladies and gentlemen, that we have significant deficiencies in the area of training for young men and women in order to carry out specific tasks in the Commercial Navy. I have to tell you that in the previous period and in the Minister of State, Mr Dritsa, I have the pleasure of seeing him, and Mr Kurublis, concrete measures have been taken, which the speech promotes, I would like to believe with the same heat and interest that concerns an important chapter in the education of our future seafarers. The second amendment concerns an amendment of No 4504 last year. And I can explain to you immediately what this law is about: this law with Articles 105 and 106 has created an obligation for certificates of airworthiness to be issued by classification societies. I would remind you that the announcement by Prime Minister Tsipras on the occasion of what has happened with the "Saint Zone". However, in order to harmonise the classification societies, especially the Greek classification societies, with the demands and increased requirements, in order to obtain the certification, they need a period that they really need. Thus, our proposal, introduced by the amendment, is to extend the deadline from 30 September 2018 to 31 January 2019 in order to meet the classification societies and ensure those conditions and meet the requirements of the law in order to obtain certification for the issue of certificates of airworthiness. And here is the question: In the meantime, what will be done, how will it be issued and by whom will the certificate of airworthiness be issued? It will be issued in accordance with existing legislation, i.e. by the ship control industry and the local inspection stages of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] There will therefore be no gaps in the diagnosis, calibration and certification for those who have expired their certificates of fishing, because certification will take place on the basis of what has happened to the day beforehand. And, if you would like, an exception - and I would like your attention - for fishing vessels of up to fifteen metres in length to be able to get the certificate of airworthiness to go to the classification societies or if they choose to go to the local stadiums or to the control sector as a whole. So we will have the certification of airworthiness along with the possibility of certifying the airworthiness of the vessels, of the vessels I have mentioned, and of the classification societies. In other words, it's a coup d'état, it's a parallel competence. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Why is the possibility of carrying up competence for fishing vessels up to 15 metres, or for passengers, who are able to carry, in accordance with the law, up to forty persons? In order to enable these fishing vessels and small passengers to choose either the classification societies or the local monitoring steps to determine the airworthiness of these vessels and, of course, the certification of the ship. These are the two amendments. And on the basis of what I have just said and what is more detailed in the explanatory statement, I would like to have your approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how eighteen students and students and two trainers from the 2nd Tavros High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also have the honour to announce Protocol No 12268/7709 of 3 October 2018 to the President of the Parliament: "Recommendation and creation of the Permanent Committees of the Parliament". The decision in question has been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u31	Madam President, I would like to ask a few questions about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u32	There is no such provision, Mr. Theocharopoulos. In your speech. You'll talk again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u33	As a parliamentary representative, I would like to ask two questions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u34	What can we do now? Have you seen this before?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u35	Of course, many times, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u36	No, that's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u37	The Minister comes and tables a number of amendments. Aren't we going to ask questions?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u38	All right, you'll talk. I think his clarity is a proverbial one. So he doesn't have to tell you anything. Then you'll be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u39	And the questions to be clarified are, Madam President. Why are you polarising the climate for no reason, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u40	I don't understand, Mr. Theocharopoulos. What kind of clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u41	For the first time I have seen - the Parliamentary Representatives and other parties are here - not to take a question on the amendments. The amendment, which was tabled late an hour ago, cannot we ask the Minister a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u42	You'll have the floor in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u43	But, Madam President, the ministers tend to leave when they come and table amendments. Two questions we want to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u44	Anyway. I'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u45	Wait a minute. It doesn't have to be any more. I cannot understand why this struggle to take the floor and ask a question for a minute. Democracy must not be afraid of it, especially the Bureau of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u46	It's not a question of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u47	Minister, two specific questions in relation to the two amendments. I should like to begin with your first amendment: we do not doubt the need for the school to function and for the place of Deputy Director to be filled. Both amendments came to us late this morning in a sense that we have denounced many times. So we're very sloppy, because you've got them now. The first amendment concerns the secondment of an instructor from the secondary school with the degree. In order to avoid any suspicion of any photographic process and so on, why don't they specifically qualify for the secondment? For example, postgraduate studies - only one degree - doctoral, lead by molecule. How will this secondment take place if five - six people have the same criteria and want to be seconded? Should there not be certain molecules criteria in the amendment? Secondly, and with regard to the second amendment you have tabled, it is clear from the amendment - you also mention it - that there was no accreditation act on 30 September 2018. This was rather the case by a government's sluggishness as a whole. If it happened for another reason, I would ask you to tell us why there was not the accreditation act, which forces the Ministry to go a few months further, without the procedure provided for by the law, i.e. the classification societies to do the specific certification of ships, which - I do not need to say more - is clearly a crucial issue for the country and for shipping.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u48	Minister, if you please, you have a minute to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u49	Mr Colleague, I said in my brief speech that the law on issuing a certificate for the classification societies' ability to issue certificates of airworthiness has more conditions, more conditions, and more conditions to be fulfilled in order to obtain this capacity. It is true that I am making this provision for the reason that it has been requested by all maritime operators that are activated at sea. And I don't need to tell everyone, as long as I can tell you that the official, institutionalized counsellor of the Ministry, the Chamber of Naval, has persistently asked for this and was right in order to adapt the existing classification societies to the requirements and demands of the law. Nothing more, nothing less. With regard to the crucial issue "What will happen in the mid-term for those vessels that will mark the end of the previous certificate of airworthiness?" I told you again that in the previous procedure, i.e. in accordance with the procedure issued by the certificates of airworthiness, they will now be issued by 31 January 2019. As far as your second question is concerned, the criterion - and I will tell you in substance what is going on - is to have a university degree, a higher education institution's degree and serve in middle education, hence the secondment. What are the criteria? The criteria are precisely the possession of the High School's degree, its educational experience, and they are, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, his will to go. I have to be perfectly honest with you. We have no applications, we have no desire for teachers to go, because this is an island of the Dodecanese, for Kalymnos. And I say to you very specifically - and far from me and any thought that a regulatory field is being formed to obtain photographically and with politically or party selfishness the one or those who go - that they do not exist. Let there be one, let us give the opportunity for the school to function. Nothing more, Mr. Theocharopoulos, nothing less.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, fourteen speakers have written. We will start with the speakers and any parliamentary representative who wants it will be intruded. The floor is now seven minutes from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion and, in particular, the first part of it concerning the establishment and operation of water, beyond its social character, because it comes to giving a solution to problems of remote areas and their inhabitants, is indeed an important development tool. Infrastructure and networks are the cornerstone of any development. Whether it is the primary sector, industrial production, or tourism, without networks and infrastructures, the potential is dramatically limited. Unfortunately for our country, when in the rest of Europe they created the infrastructure for their development, i.e. they created railway networks, roads, ports, we bet everything on the building, and indeed on that terrible invention of the opposition, with the results known to all of us. The governments of the last five decades have led the country to the 21st century by means of an araba vehicle and infrastructure, which it requires. Approximately fifteen years ago, the first legislative framework was created, concerning the operation of waterways in the country. It was a legislative framework that was bureaucratic, dysfunctional, but in any case there was an institutional framework. A few years later there was a strong mobility around this issue of water and a serious investment interest by an investor abroad. The result was tragic. After a long time - not a little - the investor abandoned the effort, lost the time and money and retired denounced corruption, which was even high on the political level. For the record and it is important to say, then the government was the New Democracy which and its resignation are trying to convince us that it can attract investors who, unfortunately, are kicking them out. The bill we are debating today lifts the isolation of thousands of small and isolated islands and at the same time constitutes an innovative investment opportunity. The two previous legislative interventions were obviously ineffective in reality, since we do not have water routes in the country after so many years. The previous legislative framework revealed significant problems and delays in the final licensing of water. The provision for a single licence for the establishment and operation in most cases has been a blocking factor. There is now a modern and developmental model enabling the authorisation process to be separated into two stages, so that the holder of the licence for the establishment of water, if he wishes, is differentiated from the licence holder and the installation. This provision, together with the simplified procedure, will greatly accelerate the development of the water network. The fact that the licence can only be obtained from public-interest entities and bodies, i.e. legal persons governed by public law, Local Authorities I and II, but also from private-law legal persons to which the majority of the shares would belong, actually ensures, in my opinion and the Government's opinion, the public nature of the infrastructure and therefore the public interest. On the other hand, the possibility of obtaining a licence from any public, private or partnership from the two operators that meet the conditions laid down creates the conditions for attracting investment funds and creating productive investment, which will create jobs, but also give a goodwill to the tourist product in many areas of the country. In addition, the draft law makes a significant contribution to reducing bureaucracy, which is a great wound to the country, as is corruption in previous years. A characteristic example is the simplification of the environmental licensing procedure for waterways. Licences are transferred to decentralised, and this is less time-consuming. Ladies and gentlemen, the obsolete development model of the previous decades, based on the double of Athens - Thessaloniki, resulting in 80% of the country's economic activity concentrating on these two urban centres, was obviously wrong. This legislation will help to build a new, decentralised, fairer and more effective model, and that is what is being called for. Waterplanes are characterised as the most suitable means of transport, combining the direct and rapid service of aeroplanes, as well as the flexibility of waterways. Considering both Greece's island character and the great coastline and transport needs, of course, hydroplanes can also be an alternative to transporting people, but also for transporting goods. However, in addition to facilitating and expanding accessibility in areas of tourist interest, we will also have social benefits, such as the transport of patients, research and rescue, transport of food, medicines, etc. As regards the water supply facilities, they are small-scale investments and require limited infrastructure, their development is thus made flexible and profitable, both in terms of technical projects and in terms of invested funds. The establishment of water routes is therefore a development perspective and can bring wider benefits to local and not just societies. This useful piece of legislation, Minister, apart from the islands, I believe that it should also be used by regions of Continental Greece through the lakes. One of these areas is Karditsa. The request for the establishment of a watercourse in Karditsa has been launched since 2005 with Law 3333 in Plastira Lake. Of course, both for Plastira Lake and for other lakes in the country there are various problems of ownership, spatial planning, which of course have to be solved by institutional intervention so that the bill can finally be as useful as it seems. It will be a deficit of the law, but also a brake on development not only of Karditsa, but also of Western Thessaly and Central Greece, the inability to use this tool for this area as well. An amendment has been tabled and I hope that it will be accepted by the co-legislative ministers. In any case, this draft law, beyond its utility, also shows a new way that the government is facing the country's development and progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, too, for the accuracy of time. Mr Tsiaras has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been an attempt by the Greek Parliament to legislate on water issues for many years now. The truth is that the first initiative, referred to earlier, was in 2005 by the then government of New Democracy, with Minister Thessalos former President of the Parliament, Dimitrios Soufas. We all know that the second attempt was made in 2013 in a legislative framework of the then Government of the New Democracy - the rapporteur for Officerial Response, Mr Vlachos, referred to the strategy and private investment, in particular. If you have to see the whole piece of legislation that we are discussing today, I think that at first glance it can easily judge that it is hesitant and reluctant. It's actually taking half a step. We as a New Democracy, because we understand the role of counter-population quite different from the fact that we are now in the government, will support the bill in principle. However, we certainly cannot vote in favour of regulations that block private initiative in general. The government's party is always confronted with its own contradictions. Other tactics follow when we may have to talk about something broader, such as the PPA, for example, and other tactics we follow for the waterways, when we have to go back to a model that primarily promotes stateism and prevents private initiative from having a specific role, especially at a time when we all know that the global economy's overall direction is directed at a one-way that some of you do not want to accept. Beyond all this, however, beyond the contradiction between public and private, which each time you come to legislate against yourself one to accept, one to reject, one to nurture, somewhere else, there are contradictions and in relation to ideological references that you themselves each time put forward as a major question of your political choices. Attributes, this bill was in consultation between August 5, 2016 to September 9, 2016, that is for one month and about five days. But when it comes to some other bills - here you will allow me to talk about some other issues, which are of course about overall political topicality - the approach is quite different. A characteristic example is the merger of TEI Thessaly. The Minister of Education brought us a bill for public consultation, which will last ten days, with two weekends in this period, taking nothing into account, nor the opinion of local society, nor the academic criteria, nor the fact that the university community of Thessaly has a different view, nor on the other hand that all of the institutions of Carditsa Law oppose this plan. At last, we must all understand that by serving politics, we must serve the public interest. At some point the choices, however they are projected, must at least reflect common sense. When there are no specific criteria that lead to these options, you realize that there is a big question to the public, such as this question specifically presently, at this time, to the public opinion of the Carditsa Prefecture, which everyone believes that Karditsa is very wrongly wronged, because she leaves the Nutrition and Dietology Department from Karditsa and goes to a neighboring city, without being adequately justified, because Karditsa is the only city in the competence of the Thessaly who has no school and that is not answered in any absolute justification. I will say features, because I am next to my dear Carditsa colleague, that the view that a department can't haunt a school is obviously abrogated by the recent legislature when we have a certain school in Arta! However, I do not need to look for what exists in Arta or which persons are associated with Arta, because obviously the answers are so obvious and so easy that they actually dictate and prove that political choices are not ultimately the result of academic or serious ethical criteria, but of interpersonal relations or in any case of influence on specific political persons. The contradictions obviously don't stop here. Recently we had the well-known issue of the name of Skopje and all that comes out of the news, particularly with the government to claim that there were supposedly talks by the spokesperson of the New Democracy with the Prime Minister of Skopje, Mr Zaev. Well, is it possible for all of this to stand on serious arguments when there is a specific position expressed? We once again state in every direction: Here is Rhodes! Elections, elections! Let's see who's going to vote for it and who's not. To know who stands up against his word with honesty. All this rhetoric about the so-called right-wing turn of the New Democracy that resists this agreement and says 'no', obviously does not meet with the rhetoric of the government partner, Mr Kammenos. So, New Democracy is far-right, and Mr. Kammenos isn't? Are you ladies and gentlemen, colleagues of SYRIZA who are in charge of Mr Kammenos, happy with this? All of this is realised that they create an absolute contradiction with how you operate and how you understand political positions and political choices. Two days ago you tabled the preliminary draft budget. Another budget for the internal market and another for the external affairs I do not think the Greek Parliament has seen before. Another scenario for those within Greece, what they need to hear and what they will like, another scenario for European partners - lenders! At some point, if there is no minimum seriousness about the overall exercise of power, you can be sure that the Greek public will obviously be in a position to make its own choices soon, but also to judge any of us. And this is something that is repeated in time, repeated in politics, and one must give it the importance that one needs if the next day wants to be a different day. Where these well-known contradictions of politics lie, with other messages outside, fighting with ourselves, with our ideas and ultimately all that we legislate, decide and choose not to have anything to do with the real interest of Greek citizens, is a practice that will be condemned to a very large extent and soon by Greek citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u54	You opened the agenda very much, Mrs. Chiara: Macedonian, elections, all! I will give the floor to the Minister for Legislative Improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to put forward the legislative improvements we have discussed and since yesterday, they have come to the attention of the members of the committee. I'm not presenting them briefly. Ladies and gentlemen know them. I shall also refer to some amendments concerning the OSCE, OSCE and CBS, which provide for a specific function. To present it, because some media, especially in Thessaloniki, have begun and given distorting interpretations of both the bill and the amendments that exist. There is a transport project entrusted to OSTH from the past, the OSH and the Attica and Thessaloniki CBELs, which are already excluded from the arrangement. I am not going to enter the debate on OSH and the 'crimes' that have taken place for years. However, it is well known to the citizens that many routes especially of CBELs and public urban transport are being cut off, resulting in ailing passengers and citizens. A second trick they had in Thessaloniki was to incorporate a large part of the urban transport work of the Thessaloniki CBS to OSTH and then use the Thessaloniki CBS as a subcontractor and pay them, without any competitive process, without transparency, without any such process. The amendments therefore come to cure precisely this distortion. They come to place a telematics system, which will be part of the central system of the OSCE and the OSCE and an electronic ticket, so that the operation, checks and invoicing are made transparent and not as it was until today. Of course, there is a joint ministerial decision with the Minister of Finance to fine these companies if they are cutting off routes that have been committed for their transport work, whether they are public transport services or the CBELs. I would like to mention these in order to keep them in mind early and to include them in the positions of colleagues and I shall also table any legislative improvements. There is also an amendment to the effect that we should allow the country's taxis to be finally electric. So far it has been forbidden. We also have a regulation on the Civil Aviation Service, so that parents can get the benefits to raise the child, not to be cut. He asked the Member before about an amendment if he had an opinion. It has obviously been consulted by the competent public procurement regulator. It's not an independent authority. It has not been upgraded to an independent constitutionally guaranteed authority yet. It is about the amendments to Law 4412, after a series of debate and consultation with local authorities and all stakeholders. However, I would also like to put forward an amendment on an issue that is very important to my fellow public, university and technological engineers. In the previous law, not the last one that passed in 2016, for many years, there have been engineers dragging into the courts without responsibility, without any legal cover for omissions of the public. In these cases, therefore, we are reintroducing the legal assistance of the State and the compensation of the lawyer who they will choose in the event of their being acquitted. It is not possible to drag members of municipalities, regions, the Ministry, ministries in general, on a road or on a sidewalk when responsibility is political, or there are other reasons why they have nothing to do with their own service, and they are fine. We therefore enable them to choose their defence and in the event of an acquittal being acquitted by the public. Another amendment relating to Law 4412, and it needs to be stressed, is the anachronistic framework that we inherited to carry out the projects without problems, to displace the networks when a major infrastructure project is carried out. The legislative framework we found provided that these networks were shifted through funding from these bodies. That is, if we wanted a telecommunications network to be shifted to make a road or some other project, OTE should shift his network and pay for it himself. He obviously wouldn't move it. The same applies to PPC, HSY, HSY, for all water companies. Here we expect these networks to be shifted from the project budget and from the contractor company which is the contractor to the tender in order to be implemented without delay and to have a rational framework in transferring networks to complete the projects. Particularly in the metro works in Athens and Thessaloniki such problems have caused delays in years, and I believe that these changes make it very easy to complete and implement the projects. I would also like to say that the amendments tabled by the Ministry of Shipping are obviously accepted. [[At this point, Minister Christos Spirtzis presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvements, which are as follows:]] Change Page [[Let the pages in. 133-138]] Change Page
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u56	Mr Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor to give three main arguments, conclusions which most of our fellow citizens have reached, concerning the operation of water, whether as residents or citizens or as entrepreneurs. To conclude, first: no government has so far been able to ignore the reactions of the competitive sectors and the corresponding political costs, and therefore no one of those who know things has fallen from the clouds has been surprised by their incredible sloppiness to date, which has been mathematically leading to the deadlock in this sector for at least fifteen years. In conclusion, secondly, the proper operation of the waters can lead local development and make a significant contribution to the national effort. If they were working all over Greece today, it is certain - be sure - that we would see GDP grow. Conclusion third: The inhabitants of our islands will feel safer knowing that they have an extra option, one more way to deal with a need, an emergency, which clearly requires a transfer off the island. So on the basis of these three simple and undeniably conclusions, bearing in mind what has been said by the bodies in the relevant committees, bearing in mind the fact that the Minister has demonstrated a spirit of cooperation by accepting many of the proposals made in the committees, I can only agree that today's bill allows us to hope that soon the water routes will enter the daily lives of thousands of Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, the water routes need them, the Greek economy needs them and the Greek society wants them. I have experience to report to you this because I was on an instant island during my professional life for a year and a half. We are talking about Kalymnos, where I was in 2003 - and today we are discussing an amendment to this island. Kalymnos did not have an airport at that time and the connection with mainland Greece was only by boat and the only connection with the island that had an airport, Kos, was only by boat. So the mayor, Mr. Russos, and the ruler of the island have made efforts since then, talked to some companies about how a water route could be launched and a water route in that region will be under way. But there was something missing. What was missing? Like what we're looking at today. We only need to be careful, apart from not putting bureaucratic problems in the operation of water, that is to say, that very strict conditions should be respected as far as environmental protection is concerned. The Greek waters are already very heavy and we should look after them as an eye daughter. So on the question of protecting the environment from the activity of water, we should be very strict. I would like to comment, in particular, on a ministerial amendment, on the amendment of a general number 1760 and a special number 31, which provides for the exemption from HPAI of property in fire-fighting areas. This amendment gives me the opportunity to remind you once again of Mr Tsakalotou's famous cavaja. Ladies and gentlemen, if any of you or any of you have done what I have done, that is to say if they have tried to keep with great anguish and to calculate how much money, how many reliefs, how much aids have been announced by the responsible and official lips that they have been given either that they will be given to the firemen in Eye, then it will be a simple conclusion: Champa keeps this 'capacalto', free of charge, of the contribution of Law No 128/1975, without any reason whatsoever. It turns out from what the responsible lips say that Greek society and state as a whole are able to cope with dignity against such national tragedies. However, what I would like you to pay attention to is the following: None of the financial aid announced by the lips of the relevant ministers comes from the account of the contribution of Law 128/1975, which, according to Memorandum No.4336/2015, is still retained by banks on behalf of Mr. Tsakalotou by Greek borrowers. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsakalotos has admitted in this Chamber, at an unsuspecting time, far before the tragedy in Mandra and clearly far before the tragedy in Matti, in reply to my questions, that he has around EUR 1 billion for the bad moment. I believe you will be interested in all those who intend to vote on this amendment and you have supported all the predictions for the firemen in Eastern Attica to find out what will answer me in the timely question I tabled yesterday and I will table it today in the Minutes and with which I ask him to tell us how much of this money, which has been available for this purpose since 2015, for the firemen in Matti. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Saridis, presents for the Minutes the above question, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Now Mr. Karastasis has the floor from SYRIZA. I would remind you that whenever a parliamentary representative wants to speak, he may ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion aims to put in our lives a means of transport that at first reading can be seen as luxury, waterplane. However, it is not a new instrument, as it first appeared in the 1920s and reappeared actively in 2004 and otherwise in 2005 until 2008, nor is it a luxury in the sense of costly, unnecessary or unnecessarily necessary. This is because seaplanes are characterised as the most suitable means of transport, combining the direct and rapid service of aeroplanes with the flexibility of waterways. In view of the island character of Greece and the transport needs, waterplanes can and must be a basic, flexible alternative to transport of persons and goods. In fact, when we are dealing with a large number of small and remote islands without land-based airports or with sea-based connections seasonally insufficient, the seaplanes could complement the transport service and ensure the sea's uninterrupted and uninterrupted connection with the mainland. Apart from the regular transport needs, however, waterplanes will facilitate and expand the visitability of areas of tourist interest and be able to serve emergency and emergency travel needs, such as aerospace, search and rescue, cargo transport. Will anyone wonder, since the waterplane offers so many advantages to transport, why do we not use it from 2008 onwards? The truth is that the effort made with v.4146/2013 was not fruitful, because despite the good intentions of the legislator the process that was introduced proved incomplete. And here I think a debate should be held on why we left it so long in consultation. I'm talking about what Mr. Tsiara said before. In order to be able, gentlemen, to have an operational bill and not the one you have done. The purpose of this draft law is, therefore, to redefined the licensing framework by addressing the problems identified in the attempt to implement the law being repealed. The main problem is the issue of a single licence for the establishment and operation of a waterway, where the persons concerned are mostly unable to satisfy the initial stage. In addition, the single licence in most cases does not facilitate interested parties who separate their investment interest only in establishing or operating. The problem is also the fact that the environmental licensing and classification of the waterways is a particularly time-consuming process and problems were dealt with in the concession of the coastal lake area for the development of land infrastructure. The new regulations focus on the following points. The authorisation for the establishment of a water network shall be granted only to a public body, shall institutionalise the possibility of using the port area as an alternative waterplane manoeuvre, with the agreement of the port authority, strengthening safety measures for the waterways and focusing on the issues of personnel training, establishing minimum requirements for the building infrastructure and ensuring the sustainability of the water supply in accordance with the real market conditions. The State may, under conditions, establish and operate water routes either in its name or in public bodies recommended for that purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, the establishment and operation of water networks in Greece is an innovative investment opportunity with important development prospects at local level, but also as a whole for the country. The strengthening of the tourist product in our country, the creation of goodwill and new opportunities in the ports and port funds, the promotion of the tourism market in the wider area of ports, but also in areas that have so far been neither easily accessible nor popular tourist destinations, the linking of the centre to the region, the emphasis on islandity, the growth of the tourist season, the creation of new jobs, the emergence and development of local economies, the involvement of the first and second levels of self-government, that is to say, what is required of any investment action, are fully served in accordance with the provisions of the nomad. It is therefore a development perspective that can bring wide-ranging benefits to both local communities and the national economy. Madam President, I should like to end by pointing out to the second part of the draft law which contains provisions on urban road transport, in particular on the supply of urban road transport services and the supply of urban road passenger services without a tender. I think that the Panhellenic Civil Communications Federation has also expressed a very positive opinion on this issue. The Regulation of the European Union on public road and rail transport therefore presents significant complexity and can be interpreted in a different way. The imminent implementation requires the remodelling of the existing legal framework in order to implement the Regulation and to protect businesses and workers, especially in the first period of application. The aim of the provisions set out in this section is therefore to ensure the continuous supply of passenger transport, the design, organisation and operation of the networks, the provision of high quality public passenger transport at the lowest cost, the regulation of the granting of exclusive rights, and the regulation of all types of compensation in return for the fulfilment of public passenger transport obligations. This ensures the uninterrupted and smooth transport of passengers across the network. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, by voting on this draft water law, a secure and integrated institutional framework for the development of the market in the new instrument is created - and I mean waterplanes. Minister, in order to be able to heal a problem that may arise at the moment, I would like to ask you, in Article 70 of Law 4530/2018, to add a subparagraph (c) to paragraph 3, as follows: ‘Specially for the urban CBELs and the Urban CBELs S.A.’ and for the municipal operations Kos and Rhodes, the deadline referred to in paragraph (b) is extended until 31 December 2018.’ If possible, enter it in today's bill. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important bill, which is why I urge you all to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u60	The first parliamentary representative called for the floor, Mr Theocharopoulos, from the Democratic Reconciliation, has a turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u61	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u62	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u63	I wanted to give some clarifications or answers directly to Parliament's representatives. It is acceptable and we will have an amendment - and Mr Jellonis has also asked for it - for the CCTV stations in the next draft law. Since the permits have expired, an extension of one month or two months will be granted until it is properly passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u64	I asked for that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u65	And Mr. Vlacho has asked for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u66	What can be done immediately is an extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u67	That's acceptable. We'll write it down and testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u68	Madam President, may I have the floor on what the Minister said?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u69	You have a minute, Mr. Vlavo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u70	You need to see that the OSH has been extended by 2022. The extension to be given to the CBS is not miserable. Since there is the spirit, as the OSH has been extended until 2022. That's all I wanted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u71	But it's not for offices. It's for tanks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how the House organises and operates, thirty-five students and students and three educational attendances from the 2nd Tavros High School (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very important draft law, which concerns the establishment and operation of waters. From the outset I say that we are positive in this bill, we are voting on it in the first place. Of course, we have many concerns about individual articles, and that is why we would also like concrete answers, in addition to the fact that the positive attitude to the drafting of the bill is positive. While this bill could have only positive effects for the economy and society, and this reflects, once again, the insufficiency, obsession, but also the diseases of the political system in general, which are exacerbated even more by your Government. Firstly, this bill comes too late. I mean from 2013 to 2018, to be honest. But here you are from 2015 to 2018. In September 2016, the relevant consultation was concluded. Government officials assured that the new legislative framework would be passed by parliament in February 2017. You, in June 2017, Minister, declared, as we read in newspapers, that "within the next few days the water bill is submitted to Parliament, a year and a half ago. You have stated that "the loose ends have been cleared", one and a half years ago. We are now in October 2018. We have very long delays, with consequences, of course, for investment and so on, because the bill relates to the country's wider reconstruction. You are now voting on a bill which, despite its clear positive direction, also raises concern, as it strengthens the view of interventionism and of statism and does not dismantle the concern about the elimination of bureaucracy. It does not abrogate one of the disadvantages of the previous institutional framework, which was the large number of ministerial decisions and joint ministerial decisions, which showed a lack of coordination between the many agencies involved in their adoption. And today they need a lot of CIA. It is true that this is a multi-sectoral and multi-sectoral bill, and because of its particular nature, which is to meet the needs of shipping and aviation, it must also be innovative. That is why proper planning, full coordination and timely execution are required. At the moment most of the issues are 'will', or'sometime we will see', and they should already have been resolved. There has been a loss of valuable time and another one will be lost - that is the problem - in order to resolve all the issues that have been raised, to issue the more than thirteen KHS and ministerial decisions that are needed. In other words, we are voting for a future plan, and we should be voting for an integrated programme based on detailed planning with timetables and provision to ensure the necessary resources. While the establishment and operation of water routes by foreign and domestic investors can undoubtedly contribute to growth, you institutions that only the public and the Otta can establish water routes, because it must be right - the argument is correct, not what you are doing - to avoid the commercialisation of permits. For this very reason, however, there is a need to prevent trade rather than the private sector from being completely excluded. Unfortunately, it is once again proved to be obsessed with a state of old cutting and anti-developmental. And obviously, we are not saying that it is a solution to put water on the market alone. This is not our position, the position of the Change Movement, the Democratic Partnership. It is the position that public and private sectors should work together so that the country can move forward, otherwise nothing will go well. Partnerships - for example - are public and private - would be a more effective practice. In any case, however, I wonder: where, for example, the municipalities will find the resources - is the situation known to many municipalities unable to meet their direct obligations - and many public bodies? Are we doing paper exercises? Why should private operators not be able to do so with a strict, tough state framework? In other words, the government promotes investment and the friendly investment environment. Let me say that with a great deal of effort - and I hope - the municipalities are doing it. The revenue from the paradoxes, however, will go to your Ministry so that the necessary checks can be carried out. What exactly are we talking about? You increase your budget. The municipalities will need revenues for maintenance, improvement, etc. They should also be able to finance other their activities. You'll take it - he says - and you'll decide which part you'll give to the municipalities. And why should an ETA proceed to such an investment in the event that the funds are available - which is not easy - at the moment the relevant revenues will not even be obtained from it? To these self-evident questions you must answer your position. I think we have told the committees as well and we have not received any answers. Is this or is it not a confirmation of an obsession in a centralised state and a collective policy, and when, in view of the self-government elections, you are talking about manipulated selfgovernment with its own resources and responsibilities? As far as the second part of the bill and urban road transport is concerned, does anyone really wonder how it is possible that there has been no prior consultation on the burning issue of maintaining the existing staff's jobs in the urban CCTBs and ensuring their working rights - or whether it has been done, tell us - in the event of a change in the public service body, which may arise after the completion of the competitive procedures? I am not going to go any further here because, with the amendments you have tabled, we should also talk about the amendments in our time. And here I think the debate is longer because there are too many issues. As far as the National Flight Coordination Authority is concerned, we cannot be optimistic, as the relationship between your Government and the independent authorities is known and recorded. You clearly anticipate it in a subordinated and secondary role. Priority is the fees, paradoxes and their collection. Ladies and gentlemen, the times and reflexes of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government are desperately late. Even if the legislative process for the establishment and operation of the waters is now completed, the investors concerned will not make tourism even the next summer. And there's an estimate of direct investment funds pending. Is it just a management failure or is it a secondary interest in investment? But the redistribution of poverty - carried out by your government - does not haunt a progressive policy. Nor does it become a policy of overtaxation and this unfair insurance policy by Mr Katrugalos, which we have said from the first moment that it will have to change radically. In order to achieve a satisfactory growth rate so that we do not constantly discuss pension cuts, tax cuts, unemployment and so on, a policy change is needed. And you, instead of establishing a modern and efficient state, instead of reducing bureaucracy, instead of strengthening transparency, independent principles and speed of justice and creating a friendly environment for attracting domestic and foreign investments, are urging an unprecedented overall in your Government's tax raid and accumulation of overcrowds for the sole purpose of distributing benefits. A genuinely progressive policy, however, primarily takes care of development. The development not as a slogan - because we have heard it as a slogan by the Prime Minister lately, 'fair growth' - but the development that will have the fair redistribution of wealth, we will have modern social policy services in the field of education and health, which we do not have, and the state will not deal with everything, with all other areas, but will deal with where it really needs to be in other areas too. Minister, I come to an amendment which you have tabled with your current government practice, namely at the last minute last night. I'm saying it's because in your bill it was, we were in the committees. In such a case, I consider an important amendment - I do not consider it an amendment which does not concern the world, it does not concern those transported by urban transport - we should at least consult the committees and we should be able to have the answers and have a debate. Unfortunately, we are at the foot, and that raises many questions and many doubts. In view of the general amendment of 1764 and specific 33, for the former OSH, the former OSCE and the CBS, it is defined in the areas of OSCE competence, etc. the execution of urban and long-distance routes by the CBS is permitted. In the case of non-drafting of a contract with the local competent CBS, it may be drawn up with other road passenger transport operators. Ignorance of your majesty! You do not specify to us who is the road passenger transporter who, apart from being unknown, proposes routes and contract terms and approves the Minister. No competition? Where is transparency and a clear institutional framework? On a subject where a great debate has been held here, we are continuing, as a government, to recurring. Of course, we're also reading articles. We read it before your amendment came. We didn't know he was coming. We read yesterday's post on the websites "OSTH leaves lines from the countryside of Thessaloniki".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u74	Where?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u75	Voria.gr, a site. We did not know that, and we say we do not have that in the amendments. We didn't have it last afternoon. They knew it before you, probably, what would happen. I am talking about something that we saw is expected and we have said it is done in committee and we have not seen such a thing. Which is what he's actually saying? That where you can't, in the rural areas, you'll give it to the CCT. Anyway, do you know what the problem is? That basically about a year after OSTH's statization continued the rave - it was rioting the transportation map of Thessaloniki. The solution was not to move from the private monopoly of the OSH that we told you here too - then we voted 'the present', we did not vote against it, you remember - and then we did not agree with this situation. Not to move to a state monopoly of the Ministry of Transport with the same problems. But you, it's a bigger problem. You cannot do this either, and at the end you are moving towards a public transport where you want without even the conditions of transparency. You have taken the commuting from private individuals and now give them back through an opaque procedure. You confess to the failure and any criticisms we have made you have confirmed a word for word. The solution for Thessaloniki lies in open public transport with a crucial role for the government and the city's institutions. What we were talking about and now is that the urban transport of Thessaloniki must be designed by the people of the city and not by the adorables of the Minister concerned. It wasn't a good situation. It had to change that situation. It's not a good situation today. And what you're doing shows that there's still a sick situation in Thessaloniki. You are asking that the urban transport of Thessaloniki belong to your Ministry at the moment, not to the state and society. You're coming with a governmental decision Fast Truck. You can drop her off and talk about it properly. Let's talk about it in the committees, answer all of this. That's why the committees are here, so that answers can come and convince us. No concern and provision for the quality of services, for better specifications and new buses. I would remind you that we were telling you here in plenary in the summer of 2017 that unfortunately the bill we are debating today - in the summer of 2017 in my speech here - does not seem to guarantee quality transport services. It is a bill based on the intentions of the Minister concerned, and that is what we are now looking for today to see the intentions of the Minister concerned. We told you that urban transport could not withstand either state-owned or neoliberal models and mainly do not withstand populism. Unfortunately, this is where everything is combined, both state-run and neoliberal and populism. Of course, we were telling you what the solution to public transport is, but you did not listen to us. That's what we told you, problems. What are you actually doing now? Because OSTH can't perform, you don't have buses for the areas of the countryside of Thessaloniki - and if you like, disprove it - you want to give them to the CBEL. If the CBEL doesn't take it, you want to give it to an unknown private and all with ministerial decisions. What transparency and what process? We need to move on to another logic. This is not how the country will overcome the crisis. The country, in order to overcome the crisis, needs other brains at last to be able to come to an agreement, because here too, these are issues that must be resolved, because people are listening to us, we are heard by the citizens of Thessaloniki and other cities, which are actually affected, when transport services are not what should be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u76	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u77	Minister, you have the floor for a minute to answer Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u78	If you allow, in order to avoid erroneous impressions, I would like to say this: Mr Theocharopoulos, in previous years over previous governments, who have been members of your party who have had positions of responsibility for the government, the OSH area has changed. I don't know if you understand that. That was precisely the logic you complain about, that is to say, to have an old-fashioned function of serving certain interests of the OSH shareholders at the time. Let me present to you, then, that in the first year of operation of OSH, we have 45 million less expenditure which is the money of the Greek people and we have found instead of five hundred buses, two hundred fifty operating, and, in fact, two hundred fifty-four. The trick, which the government had then done, was to raise the area that was the responsibility of the OSTH and subcontract the transport project to the CCT. Do you see this rationalization or the committees of Parliament and the Minister is to approve the holistic study of the Thessaloniki and Attica Regional Unit and not to have the chaos that exists today? The institutional framework says that OSTH, which is not for the center of Thessaloniki and for the surrounding municipalities, cannot go and have in the area of responsibility of small villages with little transport in order to exempt some private people from it and where the lines are commercial, is paid badly by the Greek State to provide this transport project and get ticket revenues. So I would ask you very much to ask the officials you then had in the government and to see what crimes were committed in Thessaloniki and in urban transport. It was a special area of old-fashioned politics and I receive the criticism you made as self-critic in your space and in what they predicted for urban transport, mainly in Thessaloniki, as well as in Attica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u79	Madam President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u81	Minister, I really heard you. But I asked you specific questions. You opposed the opposition, and you did not answer it. I asked you who he was. You're saying in here about road passenger transporters, if the CBEL can't. Who is it? Who will you give without knowing it today and without a competition from the House? Will you answer that, if you, as you say, do the same thing that has been done many times and have we condemned? That's why we told you that that model wasn't the right one, and that model is not the right one, but you probably don't want to hear and you don't answer. Instead of answering, you blamed what was happening in the country ten years ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u82	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u83	Minister, you have the floor, but be brief because we cannot now have a dialogue here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u84	What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u85	If you want, answer or hold it for the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u86	If they don't know, they don't even ask to know. They don't ask inside their party. What am I supposed to do? It's my fault? The Attica and the Thessaloniki CBE, Mr. Theocharopoulos, are excluded from the rest of the box that comes in. And that's why they're getting into the field of responsibility of the OSCE and OSCE. Because it cannot deal with the Regional Unit of Attica and Thessaloniki, such as the other regional units. The CBS shall be a private body. You know that, don't you? And the Attica and the Thessaloniki CBELs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u87	That's well known, Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u88	And the Attica and the Thessaloniki CBELs. It is not controlled by the Ministry, it is controlled by the local authorities. Therefore, Thessaloniki and Attica cannot be hostage either from the Attica CBEL or from the Thessaloniki CBEL if they do not provide the transport work they have agreed. So in this case - because the philosophy of space changes and we go to the philosophy of which public body or which CBS are taking specific lines - if the Attica CBS or Thessaloniki CBS refuses, there are other CBS in the country that can, through the envisaged competitive procedures, take specific routes, as well as municipal businesses themselves. But it cannot be that Attica and Thessaloniki are hostages either of the private OSTH, as they were, or of the private CBS in Attica. Ask any civilians in Attica to understand what the world is going through. Ask! And don't give up on what you've created for decades.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u89	Madam President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u90	No, there's no way. It's over. I wrongly gave the floor to both the Minister and you. We can't do a show here. In the end, you have a dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u91	Madam President, just for a second. One proposal: To add something to the amendment based on the answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u92	No, I won't give you the floor, Mr. Theocharopoulos. We can't ask questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u93	What kind of trouble is that now for no reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u94	If it is the way you say it, correct the amendment and fill out that you mean for road hauliers the CBS, otherwise what you said does not apply. Why don't you add it to it then to solve it? Second, Minister, as far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u95	No, I'm not...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u96	...you know very well that I'm participating in the Change Movement as President of DMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Metarakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u98	You know them well because you personally know what you did, you personally and then now. That's why I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u99	We've heard you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Here, Mr. Mitarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the day of SYRIZA - ANEL, we are experiencing an investment drought. After all these years of your government you have not brought a major investment of yours. The Greek people will remember you for returning to the recession in 2015 and 2016, for the closure of the banks, for the exhaustive taxation of every production activity, for the extermination of primary surpluses that you accepted, for the sale of the public property, even of museums at the supermarket for ninety years. You fought the Greek, the TAP, the regional airports, the privatisations in general. The result is also shown in the preliminary draft budget you submitted on Monday, where there is no increase for 2018 in gross fixed capital formation. Now in 2019 you anticipate an investment increase of 11.9% Obviously, you are prone to the New Democracy election victory in the upcoming elections, because with your own policies such an increase is not explained. Because we in the two years 2012-2014 had guaranteed EUR 37.6 billion in far more difficult financial conditions. In this context, the 2012-2014 investment framework also includes the debate on the waterways. By law 4146/2013, which the Samara Government had brought to the vote, the framework for the licensing of waterways was laid down. The aim was to speed up the procedures, speed up the investments that especially for smaller and most remote islands are of paramount importance. The bill, Law 4146, as already heard in the Chamber, attracted thirty investments. We've been prevented and issued three permits. For the remaining twenty - seven, four years, you have no work to perform.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u101	The issue of water supply does not arise for the first time. We did not remember this today in the vote on this bill. With my question, on 8 December 2015, I pointed out the risk of losing the investment interest that it had at the time, due to the delays of your Ministry and bureaucracy. I returned with newer questions in May 2016 and April 2017, stressing each time the benefits of the water routes for local communities, such as developmental, and their interconnection with nearby islands. It has always been the same answer for three and a half years now that you have been working on the new legislative framework. You came and in practice tried to cancel everything. You promised an improved framework and thus 'freezed' or even completely canceled even mature investments. Especially for Chios, the investment had reached the submission of a complete file on the waterway, which still awaits your own approvals. Four years later, you come and copy the New Democracy bill very well. But for four years you have been a part of the development perspective of our islands, to bring back your known ideas. You say that you are not giving private individuals the right to set up water, but only to the public, while public sector malfunctions are known and the central government as well as local government. Many times even financing small capital, which may be required, may take many years to get to the point of realization, even though for the waterways no special infrastructure is required to God, you do not privatise the sea water on which the waterplanes will land! While, at the same time, you, as a government, accepted the privatisation of regional airports, the extension of the 'Eleftherios Venizelos' contract, the privatisation of the PPA and EGF, all of a sudden you remember that you are left. You needed an entire government mandate, to bring improvements, as you say, to a bill that could have been done within a six-month period, with an amendment, if you are so convinced that these improvements will really speed up requests for the operation of water routes, but you would not lose the mature investment interest that existed in 2014 and 2015. While you are preparing to privatise ports and marinas in cooperation with you, you do not give those who you want to privatise the right to extend their activities in the water sector. Of course, Minister, the reality is that you will be judged by the immediate result, by how many weeks it will take you to approve twenty-eight projects waiting for three and a half years in your own drawer. Allow me - and I take this opportunity as a Member of Parliament - to refer to an issue that we have discussed many times, but for three and a half years there has been nothing substantial and to ask what is happening with the Airport of Chios. The previous government in December 2014 completed the expropriation for the expansion of the landing and take-off runway and you three and a half years all you've done is that you have signed a memorandum of cooperation with the Local Government agencies, but in practice neither for the expansion of the runway have you done anything for the renovation of the terminal. In the memorials you are good, sign them with the local authorities, but in the works you have left too far behind. Ladies and gentlemen, the government today cannot convince us of its pro-investment profile because it does not actually believe in investment. Even in what you are legislating, you are constantly stumbling down, so that nothing can be done. The sooner this government changes, the sooner they will return to our country to investment and the more jobs will increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Excellency of SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u103	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I place myself on the bill, I would like to say a few words on the trial that has been passed once again by the Greek people in various parts of our country, and especially in my own country, the county of mine, Evia. Northern Evia counts wounds, for which either the crafts or the works failures are largely responsible. As a result, today, we have cut roads, downfalls and find that schools are built on streams, that houses are in the streams. These results will, unfortunately, increase because climate change will also bring us other such impacts in the future. So the public works that are being done today, the demarcations of rivers and coasts, should be on the agenda of the Ministry, the regions and the municipalities, so that we can take projects seriously, which will have no impact on society and the world. Settling in this bill, I would like to say that I consider the establishment and operation of a water network to promote an investment opportunity - and not just - for the country. It is disappointing, it is paradoxical in an island country such as Greece, with extensive coastline and particular geography, to lack a similar infrastructure. All these years there has been a huge gap, a huge lost investment opportunity, a lost untapped opportunity for growth with multiplier benefits. At the same time, there was a legislative framework which was problematic, with hooks, a situation that was opaque, which was a premium for licensing, without going ahead and completing an investment. Water supply is an investment that is flexible both in terms of cost and technical projects. However, in order to function, it requires the corresponding flexibility in the conditions for their establishment, operation and exploitation. It requires a legislative framework that facilitates rather than puts bureaucratic obstacles, a legislative framework that ensures sustainability and at the same time ensures the public interest. Flexibility, decentralisation and simplification of procedures are the key features of the new legislative framework set out in this draft law. The separation of the authorisation process into two stages and the facilitation and decentralisation of the environmental licensing process will, inter alia, contribute to speeding up the implementation of the network. The benefits are expected to be multiple: Strengthening popular tourist areas, while highlighting new ones, serving emergency and emergency travel needs, strengthening local economics. They are economic benefits, but also with a strong social figure. In a country with a multitude of small and remote islands, the existence of a flexible way of moving, which helps interconnect them both with the other islands and with Continental Greece, is vital and fundamental. Let us study the cost of communication and movement on the islands through subsidized ferry lines, through air transport equivalents, to see their replacement in a more flexible form, through water routes. I believe that the result will be to strengthen this new form of movement, in line with other benefits, which I have already mentioned. At this point, I would like to refer in particular to the Evia Prefecture, the largest island county in Greece. The large and archaic road network that it has, in combination with the mountainous and difficult landscape many times makes it difficult and hard to move and transport. As a result, water supply is expected to give new breath. The theme of a water network in Evia returned to the forefront during the Central Greek Development Conference. It then took the form of a development request and acceptance by the Regional Council, and was then promoted to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Networks which it gave and its adoption in principle. This proposal includes the creation of four waters in Evia, Chalkida, Kymi, Karysi, Karysia and in Loutras Edipsos and one in Skyros. The main beneficiaries of the project may be the body of ports or the port funds, which have in their own supervision the operation of the ports. The aim is for the Eurobarometers in Evia to play a leading role in the transport of waterplanes. The aim is to develop port infrastructure and activities as a place of destination, to strengthen the sense of security in the region, to strengthen employment and, more generally, to increase the added value in the local economy and local society of movements of people and cargo, such as medicines, food and the press, but also strategic cooperation agreements with tourist agents, hotels, tourist businesses and companies from all sectors with waterplanes. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law sets out a safe and modern legislative framework aimed at promoting an investment that is in complete harmony with the specific characteristics of our place. The implementation of water services is a development perspective which can bring wide-ranging benefits to local - and not only - societies, creating new tourist trends, while meeting social needs. At the same time, they will serve as a starting point for the creation of a wider network of water in the Balkans. It is time to also change in this area the incomplete and opaque framework set by the name of only the earlier governments' philosophical policies. It is time to move on to this and to a series of legislative initiatives that are part of our wider objective of strengthening growth through environmentally-friendly investments and highlight the comparative advantages of our country. Do we remain committed and consistent to our goal of productive reconstruction in the country, while representatives of Officers, trained excellents and years of experience in bilingualism choose to relax in - accidental ones? - coffee meetings in Brussels. Everyone his way, as he has learned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u104	Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Ioannis Kefaloniannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me, as we enter the new Parliamentary Session, to refer to two - three issues of topicality before entering the bill. I will begin with the refugee and shameful images that we have seen in recent weeks. In fact, the President of the New Democracy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, visited the premises in Samos yesterday. Unfortunately, we see that the famous humanism of the present government has gone to the bronto. To understand all of us, I will tell you that in Samos, since the beginning of the year, four thousand four hundred thirty-four illegal economic immigrants have arrived and have been sent back to Turkey, through the procedure envisaged, only thirty-seven. In fact, on a hot spot, where its capacity is only seven hundred people, right now, it's four thousand. Last time we saw questions about the hundreds of millions of euros that have been spent on this particular issue. Indeed, OLAF, the respective European Commission, has started to investigate this issue. Of course, these are matters that we are putting forward every day and we are calling for an answer from the government. Of course, we have not received an answer so far. We as New Democracy have said three basic things: it is absolutely necessary to have better border guarding, of course, in cooperation with the competent European authorities. Immediately, the concept between the refugee and the economic migrant must be separated so that the procedures can be quicker. Finally, our country - and with the help of the European Union - should ensure human life for those who have been grounded in our country. I will speak telegraphically on the subject of Skopje and the referendum in the neighbouring country. Unfortunately, too, from the Minutes that broke into the press, we have seen how turbulently the government has dealt with this issue. It turned out that the unacceptable term for "Iliden Macedonia" is something that the government had agreed to and did back only after the outcry of the New Democracy and other opposition parties. On the contrary, our position has been clear from the start. We have said so on a number of occasions both within the country and, of course, those of us who are speaking both abroad and within the European Union's narrow borders and in the European group in the New Democracy. Unfortunately, the government in this way, without having informed the political leaders - we have said so repeatedly and we have exercised our criticism - has shown a weak position during the negotiations with the neighbouring country. We come to the referendum where we see this absurdity: on the one hand, the government partner, Mr Panos Kammenos, says that the referendum is void. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through its official announcement, says that it is valid and we also learn that on the same day the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, calls Mr. Zaev and congratulates him. We see a government where the Minister of National Defence says otherwise, but the Minister of Foreign Affairs says. It's, like, at least a crazy situation with regard to the image that comes out. Once again, unfortunately, it seems that not only is there an inconsistency between the main government partners, but there are diverse opposing views, and, of course, our friends abroad are taking advantage of it and seeing a weak image of the country again. You will allow me to comment on the state budget. I am not too many years in this Chamber, but also with older colleagues I have discussed, first time they meet a budget that has multiple questions: 'A. Retirement cut, B. Retirement cut. No pension cut, C. None of the two." I think it is a joke, at least, to see a budget which has several scenarios. Evidently everyone is asking: If we really have left the size of the memorials, if we really do not have the need for bad lenders or bad troikas, why should we table a budget containing various scenarios? Why do we have to wait for the Eurogroup to give us the approval or not? Do we ultimately have freedom in our budgets, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, or not? Because at least on the basis of the draft budget it seems that this freedom does not exist. It seems that you are waiting for the December Eurogroup to decide whether or not the pension cut will be a means. We wish it would not be and we say it clearly once again. This is the position of the New Democracy and there is no misunderstanding. You're tabling a budget that contains several scenarios. At some point, then, we should be serious. I'm coming to the bill. I think, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that we will all agree in this Chamber that in an island country such as Greece, namely a country with serious geographical disadvantages of cohesion and communication, waterplanes can be an additional and effective transport policy for both residents and visitors of our islands. And since I come from an island region too, I can assure you that the timely operation of the waters could be crucial to improving the quality of life of the islanders. However, if we want to be honest, the development of the region and the lifting of the isolation of whole regions and their inhabitants, it is not possible without an integrated regional plan for the transport network, a network combining different means of communication. I, too, believe that waterplanes can actually make a decisive contribution. Of course, as our rapporteur and many other colleagues from New Democracy pointed out, the institutional framework for the operation of the water infrastructure has indeed existed since 2013. It may not have been complete, there may have indeed been some shortcomings, but the first three waters of the country, Corfu, Paxos and Patras have been authorised. Furthermore, thanks to this, the licensing procedure - without even completing - has been completed in a number of other waters in the rest of the territory. And, of course, judging by the transitional provisions of Article 31 on the completion of the existing licensing procedure, it seems, Minister, that it was not as dysfunctional as some people wanted to present, obviously to justify the delay of four years in discussing today's bill. In the previous draft law, there were mainly issues of bureaucracy and rapid licensing, issues that are essentially identified in two respects: Firstly, they are located in the terrestrial zone of the ports and in the lakes. On both sides, of course, these problems were created, but the responsibility was purely for the Greek State and not for the private investor. And, of course, I am not at all sure that this bill is effectively dealing with them. On the other hand, I can certainly say that the distinction you have added between the residence permit and the licence will cause more problems. It is a distinction that - and I regret to say so - it does not satisfy anything more than the idealism of a government which, in its fear of not accusing it of being left-wing, legislates with a culture of decades in the 1960s and 1980s. It is not just - as our rapporteur pointed out - that you leave without authorisation the two largest ports of the country and the large private marinas, the ports that - notable - had predicted and modified their master plan and had entered the procedure for the licensing of water, but even marinas, such as the Gouvins in Corfu, which has been granted by the Ministry of Tourism to a private person and which in 2004 hosted the waterplanes for the first time, is not that you are rejecting a Priori large hotel strategy business, which - listen, listen! - they may not have tourist ports, but they cannot have watercourses. Of course, it is also the improper hypocrisy of the government, which has been privatising all major port agencies and important marinas, such as Pylos, Alimos, Chios, Argostoli, Zakynthos, Rhodes, Mykonos, Italy, Italy, the infrastructure, which basically have the infrastructure to host water centres and do not, for example, all the municipal port funds. Let us take an example, Mr Minister: What happens when the TIADED grants to a private person the Port Authority of Patras or Heraklion? A residence permit will not belong to a private person? And what does this mean for the operation of the watercourse? I will say to you: it will be closed unless the government makes legislation and authorizes the private sector to establish it. Of course, you will tell me that there is a solution that is to transfer it. But who will, for example, be transferred to the port of Igoumenitsa, for example? Will you establish, on a case-by-case basis, a legal person governed by public law or private law, whose only property will be an authorisation to set up a water service? Will you transfer it to the neighbouring OTA, when the law prohibits where there is a port organisation and a relevant municipal port fund? I'm going to the terrestrial ports. With the exception of the large ports, the vast majority of the municipal port funds do not, as you know, have the obligation to draw up a master plan, which means that many of them do not have designated terrestrial areas. Of course, the biggest problem with the delay in ICM approval is not what service it is doing. You are decentralising the process through decentralisation, but that is what I think is creating the dominant problem. The problem of delay, Minister, is the duplication and confusion of responsibilities between the Environment Agency and the ESDP, namely the Port Planning and Development Committee. And unfortunately, this bill does not solve it. With regard to building permits for terrestrial infrastructures, there are two issues here. Firstly, what is your forecast for existing infrastructure within municipal port funds, which can serve the use of water, but are illegal? Secondly, in the case of new infrastructures, a water route, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, is needed in order to operate, in principle, a platform of twenty to thirty metres and a house of about fifty square meters. Couldn't you, Minister, provide that these houses will be exempt from building permits to speed up the process in terms of their licensing? In the case, for example, of the airports granted by FRAPORT, you also transferred the approval of the infrastructure authorisations to the PSO. I think you could do something similar here too. I'm going to the lakes. Most lakes either form part of a specific protection framework - i.e. NATURA - or have predetermined uses which do not include in their design the operation of water. Moreover, there is a legislative gap as to who the management body of the water surface of the lakes is. For example, the management body of the land section of Lake Trichoris is interchangeable between the EBRD and the Land Office of the State. I'm really wondering who he's going to take on the residence permit in this area. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Madam President. Next theme is the water service charges. Article 22 lays down two different fees, one for each passenger using the waterplane and one for the part of the flight. These fees will, as you say, be used for the construction of waterways - I suppose, public - for the subsidisation of horrific water lines. I'm coming to Article 29. You give the Minister for Infrastructure the opportunity to establish legal persons governed by public law in order to establish water routes where there is no investment interest. I have two comments to make here: Firstly, why are the water charges not to a certain extent in return at least to the institution establishing the water service? In other words, you ask a municipality through the city port to proceed with the authorisation to set up a water service without any reward for it. Secondly, what about those tourist marinas, which have been awarded to individuals for a certain period of time by the Ministry of Tourism? Here, Minister, should there not be a provision to create a licence for the establishment of the relevant public body - in this case the Ministry of Tourism - or any other legal person? I shall refer to the amendments very briefly. In Amendment No 1762/32 we will be negative. In Amendment No 1764/33, we will also be negative. I think there is no more confession to the collapse of the transport project in Athens and Thessaloniki. Of course, the issue of the poor operation of transport, especially in Thessaloniki, is the daily lives of the people and visitors of the city, on the one hand through the collapse of telematics, on the other hand, through the cracked stops and an old fleet, which also has the bogey of your own legislation, which extends the life of the buses from the twenty to the twenty-three years. So you actually added forty old vehicles that were to be withdrawn without any result. With regard to Amendment No 1769/36, Minister, I have to say that once again it amends provisions of Law No 4412/2016, a law which, as I have measured with my colleagues, has been amended seventy-seven times in two and a half years. In fact, this amendment correctly includes specialised study services and PPPs. For this arrangement, we will be placed when the voting time comes. In addition, Amendment No 1772/38 - and I am closing with it - we would like to break into two parts, because in the second article we are positive, but the first is negative. We are negative, Mr Minister, because there are issues which, for example, electric cabs and special rented white vehicles, but there is provision for extending driving licences up to 31 December for more than seventy-four years old drivers. Therefore, we cannot vote for this regulation. If you break the amendment, as far as the second part is concerned, we will of course be positive. We're waiting for your final judgment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u106	Mr Bukkokouros has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, under conditions of country's commitment to development, the bill under discussion should be one of the basics, because it actually touches very important elements. But the government chose to bring it to one of the Summer Departments - that is where it was worked out in the committees of the Third Summer Department - and to discuss it today at a meeting. Minister, I hear the majority Members from this morning constantly respecting that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has tabled the perfect bill, which will lead to the spring of water and waterplanes in the country. You know that this country does not suffer from laws, but from the application and functioning of laws. So I tell you that this bill will be judged in practice. However, we in the New Democracy have serious doubts about the functioning of the bill, which, Minister, is based on some elements and initially on the great delay with which it comes to Parliament. I must remind you that the public consultation on this bill was completed in September 2016. We already have October 2018. The history of waterplanes in our country is long. It is clear that you have not taken into consideration many things, such as historical experience. Hydroplana in Greece flew since 1920. Their last flight took place shortly before World War II. You have not taken into consideration other issues, such as international experience and best practice. Today, Minister, there are countries that have created a great tradition in waterplanes. Canada, Australia, Denmark, Finland, Italy and countries that are multinational complexes, such as Maldives, could be mentioned, and they really support their tourism and their economy. You're a prisoner, Minister, and you don't want to hide it. That's your right. Come and reverse the shape. Instead of doing the quick and efficient thing, i.e. putting the preconditions and giving the individual the right to set up water routes, keeping for the state strict supervisory control, as you wish, you do the opposite. You obligate the State to establish the waters and the private sector to use them. What does that mean to a disgusting Greek public, Minister? We are a multinational country, we are a tourist country, and at the same time we are a country that is plagued by the transport isolation of many regions. It has the potential - why is it not enough for the joint ministerial decision to set up a water service - that the Committee on the Control and Inspection of Waters should be able to cope with this great task and issue licences at the appropriate time, so as to start the transport operation and thus increase the viability of these companies? You have made a decentralisation in the issue of environmental impact studies and you have given this competence to the decentralised regions. You could operate in the same way on the licence. Corresponding officials at the level of decentralised administrations, which are eight or thirteen in the country - I am not sceptical in the number - could control all these conditions set by the bill and rates to be faster. You make a commission that should control the waterway from Floisvos to Donusa and from Alonissos to Thessaloniki. It is composed of eight members. If the Commission does not inspect this water route, it is not going to work. A working volume is going to be accumulated. Waterways of the same geographical areas and the same administrative regions will be licensed in different times, and this, Minister, will affect the companies concerned. I'll explain to you what I mean by a simple example, because Volos has had the experience of a company that worked for some time. Because of the late licensing, he went bankrupt and left the transport project. You have not taken into account the experience and the law of 2005, the law of 2013, and especially the best practices currently in force worldwide. If you'd incorporated them, I think the bill would have a much bigger chance of offering. On this subject I would like to offer fruitful criticism, because it is a matter of concern to our critics, to tourist development, to aerospace patients who are currently on board boats and on board and while their lives are at risk, they travel six and seven hours. In my view, Mr Minister, the shape should have been reversed. But since you are not choosing it, I think you can decentralise your licensing system. Civil Aviation officials also exist at regional airports. Appropriate training can carry out inspections and controls. By having a committee for the whole country leading to endless procedures and long delays, I do not think that we offer neither the economy nor the tourist development, nor the elimination of transport isolation, especially the remote islands. The second thing I think you should do is do the following. You're making certain conditions. Mr. Kefaliannis has already told you what the bureaucratic problems will arise if you categorize the water routes in large, medium and small. Great, of course, it will be the exit gates, it will be the waterways that will fly to the countries that have signed the Schengen Treaty, but also to third countries, and that is where all these conditions must exist. At the small airports, in Alonissos, in Schinoussa, in Donusa, these conditions are not required, Minister. In Canada and other countries the pilot himself, the pilot himself, not with a magnetic gate or a radiator, but with a racket type machine - portable magnetic control device called - makes control of passengers' luggage, enters the plane and runs the route. I think we need a escalation in all of this. If we say that everything applies to all the waterways, we won't do anything. The functionality of your law will be judged in practice. Secondly, that you are obliging today's licence holders to decide in 15 days, even country conquerors do not do so to conquered citizens. You should give a longer period. In general, it needs simplification, because hydroplane is really a tool that suits Greece, but I'm very afraid that these procedures will go bankrupt again and some other fellow Members will come 15 years later to discuss another bill. After you have chosen the involvement of the entire state pyramid - involve ministers with joint ministerial decisions, involve decentralised administrations, port agencies, port funds and OTAs - increase their supervisory role and operational issue of licensing, either decentralise it, if you do not want to give it to individuals, so that it is more operational. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I could make many more comments. I close by saying that it is a pity to miss another opportunity to develop waterplanes in a multi-native tourist country, such as Greece, which - I repeat, for the second time, in my position - is affected by major issues of transport isolation in certain areas. I would say that the framework for the work of today's airplanes should also be established.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u108	Hang up, Mr. Buquoir.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u109	I shall conclude, Madam President. There is no framework. We are subsidising today, Minister, the barren airline, with the result in particular in the winter months and the state paying and companies entering. It could, in particular, have been possible on the bourgeois line for waterplanes with the aid - and this draft ought to create the framework - to replace this great need, so that the islanders too are served by high-income tourists to whom the waterplane is intended to have alternatives and, more generally, to incorporate this instrument with a view to the multi-faceted development of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u110	Mr Dritsas has the floor from SYRIZA and then the Parliamentary Representative of the River, Mr Amyras, will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, for the personal assault I have once again received from the representative of the Nazi criminal organisation Golden Dawn a moment ago. Obviously everyone realises that I am not going to open any dialogue. I have always been accountable for my whole life to the Greek Parliament, as long as I am a member of it and to the pirate and Greek society, as long as I act publicly. But this attack is not personal. Three times at the meetings of the Committee on Production and Trade, in the debate on this bill, the Golden Dawn attempted an innocuous attack on democracy, Parliament, democratic principles, political parties and everything. As chairman of the committee in the summer part of the House, and at three times I felt obliged to give a "paid" answer, which all political parties welcomed and practically protested with the departure of everyone from the Chamber. I said at the time that democracy is big-hearted and tolerant, but it is neither foolish nor naive. We all know what Golden Dawn is. It's a Nazi criminal organization, with open accounts in front of Greek justice. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, now that the period of the Memorandum's commitments has been completed and the Memorandum's convention has been concluded, the main political differences which the political forces in Greece have at all times emerged in view of the new period of the country. And that's good. Democracy and politics will gain from this. Even on a subject such as this, namely water and waterplanes, which most political parties in general converge on the fact that we need to get there, there are differences, however. In the bill there are arrangements that exclude private initiative, said Mr. Tsiaras. While they are regulations that lay the rules, it is precisely to develop the private initiative. Because no state business is going to work waterplanes. However, ladies and gentlemen, transport and maritime transport are part of the country's overall transport network - and, indeed, with unprecedented specific data. It's also airplane and navigation. In fact, very careful provisions are needed for the safety of aircraft, navigation, environmental protection and even national security. Some people here do not know, do not think about it, despite the fact that we really have the previous legislation that has already been mentioned since 2013 that has failed. Why did they fail? Because they were not arrangements on the basis of a public, state, planning, which will provide the framework for the operation of the private initiative. Therefore, they were arrangements that allowed competition to resolve the issues and - with apologies for the expression - 'was going around'. That is why all this aim has been delayed, because the framework that had to be solved by competition - underground, as a general rule - of the various interested parties. Our government shouldn't have started it from scratch. It had to resolve all the issues that had already been "driven" in practice on the basis of a bad law, but which was also sufficient through it, but also through transitional provisions, to go to the new landscape. What's the new scenery? The new landscape is that these functions and responsibilities, which one cannot question as being in the public interest rules on maritime safety, but also aviation, environmental protection, national security and much more, will be the responsibility of public bodies. In other words, how else should one see this foolish approach of excitement in favour of private initiative, mainly from New Democracy, but unfortunately also from PASOK - KINAL? What other country in the world does not take care of this? Even the most neoliberals do. You're "Yataldzi" neoliberal! Even that's where you suffer, because that's not a policy of neoliberalism! It is the 'lobbies' policy, and that is where we really need to stand to see what this famous SYRIZA statement is and all these fools are heard. To this end, ladies and gentlemen, the distinction of authorisation for setting up and licensing is a structural, fundamental distinction on which we really can organise a sustainable perspective for the development of the water and water transport sector which we all want. Much more so in the debate the representatives of the two private companies have also opened up, and we are now calling on the committees and private bodies - not only have they endorsed the bill, but they have said that the explanatory statement is available in all the international forums of interested parties and is receiving very positive comments. However, there was once again an insult from the Greek Parliament by the Port Authority of Piraeus. And it's not the first time. You all remember that. He was called and didn't come. He didn't even send a memo. Should the Greek Parliament not know whether the Port Authority of Piraeus with its new structure is interested and how it cares? Can it be understood that this crucial issue of public interest regulation will be solved by the dynamics of the situation: because the majority of the shares in the PPA are no longer owned by a private company, do they not want to engage in dialogue with the Greek Parliament which invites them? It is an unacceptable attack once again by this company or by some of its representatives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In any case, all this is exactly where things are put in place. And indeed the delay - we can all comment on it - has causes and we cannot escape. Once again, then, we have a great difference between this government and the catastrophic period of the last 20 years, 30 years. We must all put our minds in order to lay solid foundations for the country's genuinely sustainable and fair production reconstruction. I shall conclude, Madam President. Thank you for your tolerance, too. The two amendments of the Ministry of Shipping are also appropriate, necessary and operational. However, in view of the new period of responsibility for the classifications and the upgrading of the role of ship inspection in the Ministry of Shipping, we still have a lot to talk about. I think the Ministry is on the right track and on a solid basis to complete this process announced by the Prime Minister and implemented by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u112	Thank you. Mr Amirrassoure. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. Then there will be two speakers again. And then he will speak a parliamentary representative. Then the Minister will speak, Mr. Mavragans. That's the turn we've got.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a draft law on how transport will be organised and, in particular, how we will give a developmental shift to transport through seaplanes. And I want to ask you all: How would you characterize an island country, such as Greece, with archipelago, with a shocking polynesia with six thousand islands, islands and rock islands in our archipelagos? How would you characterize an island country with a hundred and seventeen inhabited islands in its seas? Fifty of these islands are over a thousand inhabitants. How would you characterize an island country, whose coastline is larger than the coastline of Africa, which has no waterplanes and routes to move residents, tourists, visitors, businessmen from one island to another easily and safely? I would characterize such a country as backward and fearful. But were we Greeks and Greece always like this? Oh, no. I'll show you some pictures since 1930. In Kastelorizo there was a base station for the waterplanes of 'Air France'. I'll testify to the Minutes. We are now talking about 1932, 1933. Here, then, we see the wonderful Kastelorizo, who has been so diagnosed by the proclamations and background, really with dynamic growth. It was the age of the 1930s and waterplanes of 'Air France' hung on the port of Kastelorizos for tourism and a thousand other reasons. See here a second picture close to the base of refuelling and engineers. And here is a Greek waterplane, beyond the French, that I see back in line that there is the royal thyroid, the krone, and underneath the nationalist. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I present these to you: The Greeks of 2018 must imitate the Greeks of 1930. The Greeks of the past, the Greeks of the 1930s proved to be more open-minded, more creative, more progressive, more cosmopolitan than, to a large extent, hesitant Greeks today. I believe that the bill and the issues of the draft law have been analysed as well by Mr Psarianos. We're positive about the bill. Of course, I cannot help noticing that the first attempt was made in 2016 by the present government. Then he froze the thing for two years in public consultation. Two years to come to an agreement on self-evident things that almost a century ago our grandparents had succeeded? I now come to a number of specific issues. Dear Minister, Mr. Spirtzi, I would like to ask you things about the free movement of uniforms in the public transport. In March 2018, Law 4530, Article 86, which we, too, voted in favour of as POTAMI, had been passed, which said that a joint ministerial decision on exemptions for public transport tariffs was provided for. One of these charges is uniforms. And why the uniforms, police officers, firefighters, other specialties must be able to travel free of charge by bus, subway, etc.Huh? Because, for example, a police officer who lives in Cesarean comes to the service: "Tomorrow you have a service at St. Stephanos". It should be a very long distance for many kilometres. They've got a thousand yards a week, security measures, surveillance measures, on the ground. All these moves have been made for six months on a ticket paid by the uniforms in their pocket, but they're on duty. Three months after the law was passed, I saw this also unacceptable, which I learned from many policemen, who on the street stopped me and said, "Say something to the House, because what are our commanders saying, since we cannot pass and have not been free for us policemen in the public transport?" They were told by their commanders: "Look, you will go behind other passengers, friends, and as soon as the gates open, you will also pass." I was told by many policemen on the street: "This is declining for us. We don't want that. We policemen pretend to be the barbies? Is it possible?’ After the vote in March 2018 on this article on the free movement of commissions, three months later, after seeing that nothing had been done, on 20 June 2018, I tabled a question to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport. And in an OSCE document, the Organisation for Urban Transport, the answer was that the OSCE has been signed by the two Ministers, namely Mr. Skourletis, the then Minister for the Interior and Mr. Spirtzi, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, and the signature of the Minister for Finance was pending. Today, six months later, 3 October 2018, the joint ministerial decision is re-written as a result of reform and the round of contacts begins again. So I ask you, Mr Spirtzi, when will the uniforms be able to move, on the basis of the law that gives them the right, free of charge to public transport during their service, or whether they will have to go again to this reduced system behind other passengers like Jacuzzi, once the gates have been opened to pass. I believe that because you were one of the first to sign, you are now going to run it for the other ministers. This cannot be an unfinished one. And that is where we are telling you that we have many doubts when we see bills referring to and implementing them in joint ministerial decisions and so on. That's where we're afraid of bells. When you see in a provision that there is a provision that there will be provision for its implementation or for its implementation by a joint ministerial decision, we know that there will be at least one year's delay. I also made you suffocating pressing to make use of the rail network in the Peloponnese, which is abandoned, closed, in a modern form of thematic tourism, which has a rapid development in America, Canada and Germany and is cycling-rail tourism. In other words, unused mother tracks - I showed them to you last time - symmetrically they put a bike and sit at ease. The maximum speed is 12 km and no one is in danger. There is already a large tourist market for this particular type of tourism. I asked you, Mr. Spirtzi, to push it, run it, and I asked for an appointment with you. You didn't have the time. I can imagine. But I want to bring it back. So there are many small corporations - to say this - local. How do we have canoe-kayaks, Greek companies in all the rivers, which do canoe or rent bicycles, or do other activities in nature? It is a small, but important and emerging, tourist thematic unit that can keep people in the Greek province working on their place in a way that is environmentally friendly and bring great value. Now I can only make a small reference to the preliminary draft budget, because the plan that we are discussing today is clearly at the core of, or should be, a development programme and a plan. What development are we talking about in Greece, when I see in the preliminary draft - of course, we have all seen it - of the budget that there are two scenarios: one scenario is the internal and one scenario for foreign affairs. The foreign scenario is that we cut pensions and leave the countermeasures. The internal scenario is that we do not cut pensions, but neither do we apply countermeasures. Now see why there is one element that I, when I read it, really stumbled me on the reliability of the budgetary items. Listen. Whether pensions are being cut or not, or contributions are being increased, or taxes are being reduced or taxation is rising, growth in 2019 on the basis of the preliminary draft is estimated at 2.5%, private consumption at 1.1% and unemployment at 16.7%. But how can these sizes be either cut off or pensions are not cut off, whether they increase citizens' taxation or not? So, here's a shape of oxymomile and I'd say credibility. I am not talking about overtax. This year, on the basis of the preliminary draft budget for next year, we will have revenues more than taxes - VAT, that is, income tax - by EUR 1.3 billion, above and above the medium-term objective. I shall also refer to investments. That's why I say we start with the little ones, because a lot of small ones do a big one. That is why I keep mentioning cyclodresins on the railway networks that are not used. For this year the government had budgeted 11% investments, but they eventually close to 0.8%. Now's draft budget, do you know what it says about the investments for the year we're coming? 11% again. But since this budget, as it is being implemented, has led to almost zero investment - under the unit - and having budgeted 11%, that is, a half-a-a-half increase in GDP from investment, you tell me how it will be possible this year or next year when it was not made last year. I think that the main problem and the main source of uncertainty about the economy are the government itself and its bilingualism and the front - back and back - out. We see this not only in economic terms, but also in scaffolding. I want to clarify the side of the river here, to make sure we all know the same. The river will not give a vote of confidence to a SYRIZA - ANEL government or SYRIZA government, or I do not know in which other combination of SYRIZA - ANEL government, associated with this vote with the Ambassadors' agreement. I'm saying it again. Not one of the Potamian MPs will give a vote of confidence to the SYRIZA Government - ANEL on the issue of the Ambassadors, because there is no chance that any of the Potamian MPs will do such a majestic piece of shit when we had just four - five months ago voted in favour of the motion of censure against the government. Therefore, those who hear us know that from the Potami and not one Member of Parliament will vote for the SYRIZA Government - ANEL related to the issue of the Ambassadors. Let the people of FYROM accept this agreement, as you can see, was not accepted by the Skopje, which means that it is all zeroed. We have to close the shortcut and let's go from the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, I will make an announcement first. The House still has glamorousness for young children. Look how many have come to visit this emblematic building and the work done on it, of course. It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-six students and students and three attendants of teachers from the 3rd Elementary School of Patras. We welcome you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason for this is that Mr Practicalis from New Democracy has been given the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the island character of Greece helps to play a decisive role in the operation of water. Investment opportunities and development prospects are undoubtedly being created at local, local and regional levels and generally in the country. For remote, in particular, seaplanes can be the most appropriate means of transport, Mr Minister. Efforts had been made at times in the country for the operation of water. Some flights were made with waterplanes between 2005 and 2008, but the whole attempt went so far as a result of some unsolved problems. The former Government of New Democracy has been licensed until 2015 to three undertakings related to the Port Authority of Corfu, Paxos and Patras. Unfortunately the other twenty-seven requests of interest were lost on the road. The government today brings out a draft law which, as I said, has essentially been looking forward to running the procedures for the waterways, even if it was going to be noted, Minister, for four years now. We see, on the other hand, that the separation between the licence to establish the water and the licence to operate is a re-engineering obstacle to anyone who wants to invest. Our aim must be to release any investor from the bureaucratic bonds, not to create any more. This draft law excludes from the authorisation to set up a private person as it is issued in the name of an OTA or a port fund or a port organisation or any other public body. Provision could be made for clauses for the private sector, and why not encourage public-private partnerships. So, Minister, Mr Dritsa, the ending is at some point attracted to us and we can be compressed through this PPP procedure. Without flexibility, however, on the part of the state, no individual will invest. The message you are sending internationally shows that you are moving in the opposite direction to the policies of the Member States of the European Union and not just. And there are now willing people who want to invest in the water roads I am aware of the subject matter with regard to the interest in my area in Alexandroupolis and Samothraki. Through parliamentary control, Minister, I have highlighted the need to create them, as they will play a catalytic role in interconnecting with the islands of the northeastern Aegean but - and why not? - and with neighbouring Turkey, which already has the appropriate infrastructure. They could also contribute to a better and more frequent connection between Alexandroupolis and Samothrace, along with the ferry transport. It is clear that on the government side there is no realistic strategic planning on other transport issues, such as rail linking the county. The international opportunities that have been given to us, you have ignored them. An example is the Baku line - Vienna. You let the line pass a sieve from our country and from the river Evros and you were not interested in entering Greece and leaving Ormene. In my question, which I will also deliver on the Minutes of the House - and which the Head of Infrastructure of the New Democracy and the two Members of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace have signed up to - Mr Panayotopoulos and Mr Kyriazidis of Drama - we have, instead of responding to us, shown us practical interest in the line and to appreciate positively that we have brought an important issue concerning transport planning in Evros, Thrace and the country, you have referred us to a reply from the Director of Development of TRAINOSE, which actually says nothing, simply underlining that it has no competence in the operation of the railway infrastructure. And you also sent us three documents from your department's existing addresses. But you have not answered the key questions we have asked. On the other hand, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has wasted only one proposal, simply stressing that it is evading its responsibilities. Alas! For Christ's sake! Is that possible? With so many existing embassies of his ministry, in all the countries through which this new Orian Express is passed, wasn't he interested? This is the function of the current government. However, the new "Sea Egnatia" cannot be implemented under the responsibility of the Ministry. Let us hope that the new Minister will hear our complaints both on this issue and on the question of the Port Academy, which was raised by his Deputy Minister four to five days ago in Evros. That means well-functioning at all. Minister, are you going to make substantial progress - and not in words - in Alexandroupolis and Samothraki? The President of the Port Authority of Alexandroupolis in statements to local media in July on this issue argued that a key point for the establishment of facilities is the existence of a network of water routes across the northern Aegean, so that waterplanes can be refueled. Have you progressed, Minister, in planning the network? What are we on and when do you think it will be completed? At the same time, however, the above factor also raised a number of objections to Alexandroupolis, as its area of passenger boarding has not been finalised. An issue that can be resolved with the assistance of TIADED, which is included in the concessions contract programme, like the other nine in the country, i.e. a total of ten. Will you ensure this by means of legislation within the law, which we are currently discussing here? What we ask of your Ministry is for you to present us with a timetable for when the water works in Alexandroupolis and the Kamariotissa of Samothrace will proceed. That's what we're interested in, that's what we're looking for, that's what we're asking. That's what people are asking. A realistic timetable, however, which will not create hopes for the inhabitants of Evros and Samothrace, which unfortunately always operates in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u116	Thank you. MP Constantine Karamanlis, MP Serres, seeks permission from his absence abroad to participate in an international conference, from Monday 8 October 2018 until Thursday 11 October 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u117	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Minister has the floor for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill really comes to cover a legislative void that was also, if you like, an operational gap that was created just from the institutional void. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Some people said there had been attempts. Efforts had been made since 2005 and from there, as well as in 2013. In fact, I have heard in the Chamber, but also in the meetings of the committees, voices from the anti-population bodies say that we are not capable of managing this area, because we do not know exactly what we should do about private entrepreneurship, and that is why they think their own efforts have been efficient, and our own will end up incomplete, except that the figures themselves are overwhelming at their expense. They started an effort in 2005 and by 2015 they said they managed to give three licenses in ten years. Is that true? Partly yes. They were not even able to give the institutional framework, nor could they even defend the business efforts for which they are so severely cut. Who says that? The government says so? Oh, no. The State Council of State, 717 Decision of 2015, March 2015, requesting cancellation from 2011 and 2012 to the detriment of authorisations to establish and operate water services, as well as to the ESA decisions of the Ministry of Shipping. What's ESAL, so people can hear and learn? The great works of the former regime. It is the ports' Regional Planning Committee. Yes, sir. So what have they been doing all these years? Nothing. What do you mean? They licensed nothing and the Council of State came and canceled all licenses. Which ones? Three. Fortunately, they later ratified these permits by law. In other words, even these three permits in ten years could not be granted. This is the great success. Congratulations, good for you. We won't follow your model. Now we're going to the point. What did they do? Those who know entrepreneurship well and play on their fingers had united the environmental conditions of the ports with the environmental conditions of the waterplanes, the water supply. They had it together. They made it harder or easier, didn't they? It's obvious to all the people he hears. It's harder. When you join and "hear the process in terms of environmental aspects relating to the whole port and not only the water road, you are "hearing" the process. What are we doing? We're retraining these permits. We are dispensing the water supply from the port's licensing and so that they do not have spatial problems, as I have said before, and so that they do not have environmental problems and to fall into a category, in A2 or even in B category, with standard environmental commitments and all this is obviously in favour of entrepreneurship. What else do we do? We are renegotiating the authorisation to establish an operating licence. They say, "This is at the expense of the private initiative." What do you think? A key axis and a condition for private initiative is that there should be sustainability. When will there be sustainability of hydroplanes and hydroplane connections throughout the territory and outside the territory? When a hydroplane connection network is established within the territory and in relation to other neighbouring countries. How will this be created if there is no overall coordination of establishment permits? It will never be created. They say that we have given licences - three - in ten years and they have been incompletely cancelled by the Council of State. Yes, sir. Did it work? Oh, no. Why didn't it work? Because there was not exactly the whole network that would make the whole network viable. How will this be created? Only if it is done under the supervision, welfare and connection that the state body can provide, through port agencies, when they are owned by a public body or through the public port authority - I catch a little bit of the people from Anti-Population - when the port agencies have passed by a majority of private entities and private entities. So, then, these public bodies, or in the cases of PPA and PLAT, the public authorities of ports make the applications, make the decisions to establish the waterways, or, if they cannot, very wisely, the Ministry predicts that the Ministry itself can intervene, namely the State, and create it, to set up that waterway. So you understand that for these reasons, some of the two representatives of private operators - who have so far appeared, may also appear in Greece's territory and in social and business action - were evidently in favour of this amendment. They come here today as nomadsmen of counter-population and defend something that, firstly, they do not know and, secondly, they oppose those who have it, namely private companies. The private companies said: "Well, you guys, because, as they had done, we couldn't do anything." They come here today, the opposition, and they say, "You do not do it well, you oppose entrepreneurship, you do not know." While they knew that, in ten years they gave three annulments from the Council of State and not from the Council of State, precisely because there was no public network! The network should therefore always be public. And it must always be public, because, if any problem arises in the institution holding the authorisation to establish it, then there is, in fact, a legal, business and social commitment to establish it under the legal, financial problems that any body having this licence may have in its hands. Therefore, the right to establish must be certainly and always in a public body in order to ensure both sustainability and continuity of operation. And another thing which, of course, escapes from the point of view of the opposition, because it does not pass them on to them that this is a good not only of business, but also of cover - as the state must do - of a humanist part, deeply social, which can provide waterplanes in the area of the connectivity of remote destinations and islands. That is precisely where we predict that, if there is no other interested party, the State itself will intervene through the Ministry to set up the network, not only for the establishment, but also for the operation, even through partnerships in some cases with the private body. So here you see that it is a completely balanced piece of legislation, which also covers business activity, as it should cover it, with the supervision of the State and the guarantee of a licence for establishment, and on the other hand it ensures exactly the action of the State as it should under the rule of law, in order to meet the needs of the weakest human beings in outermost regions, remote and isolated. And a few words - please, Mr President, your tolerance - for the second part, concerning the urban voyages. There have been some voices here that have been said that, you know, you have not been sufficiently consulted and, in any case, you have not included all those predictions that are needed to be sustainable and you are making interventions to link some areas to each other and you are essentially opposed to the operation in this area of social and business action. Except that the same pan-Hellenic federation stood perfectly positively against this piece of legislation, for it was precisely because it saw the following: Firstly, since we have to go through - and we have to pass, even if we were not imposed on us by the regulation - from Regulation No 1370 of 2007 to 31-12-2019, in a phase where we are going to have to tender, these competitions, in any case, must ensure not only the viability of the project, which is self-evident that they must ensure, but, on the other hand, the state welfare against what I said before, to the most isolated of our fellow people, to the weakest populations. Does this piece of legislation do it? Of course he does. Why? Because it enables the Minister to compose areas between them with increased and reduced trade. But if he doesn't do that, what business and social balance will there be? It is obvious that someone will only care about the trading areas. It will not give the trading areas themselves, there should also be certain disadvantaged areas, so that there can be social action, goods transport, the good of communication and not isolation. If you're not interested in isolating populations, we're interested. We want our fellow humans to be close to us all and to be equal to us and to be equal and equal. If you don't care, how much this attitude touches us. One more thing. You said that'may intervene', he said, 'the Minister may delegate'. When? Did you read when? Where Article 2 of Regulation No 1370/07 states, ‘there are exceptional requirements for stopping the service’. And what else will he do? Is there anything else he can do? It must do so, even if the regulation does not say so. Can you ever leave people without communication, transport, transport? Is it possible to claim that? And, of course, in these cases, what's going on? A ultimate limit within which you can assign. You can't make it save the assignment. You're gonna do it for a while to cover the emergency. It's obvious. In this case, therefore, the delegation is provided for. No award is provided to save privileged management to some, supposedly, friends, etc. These belong to other times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Minister, Mr Cavadas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would expect you to make a self-critic that two years, since September 9, 2016, this bill is in the drawers of the Ministry and after two years you bring it here for vote. So I didn't hear anything about it. This bill is now coming, although there is considerable interest in investment in the sector and while fifty water routes across the country are still pending and in the licensing phase. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are telling us that you are looking for investments, but it seems that you are not in a hurry, because here in front of us we have a clear example, for which enough money has already been spent by individuals and for which there is an active investment interest and not just that. Waterways are a matter for you to receive a ready institutional framework from us, the New Democracy Government, and you chose to change it, complicating the operating and licensing framework. Because this draft law - and in particular Article 4 thereof - permits the establishment of water services is granted only by a decision of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport and Shipping, and is only granted to a public body. In other words, to understand what we are talking about here, you once again show your allergy to the private sector. You have chosen to hit private investment, undermine growth and create new jobs. Because not only are you improving the licensing framework, but you are canceling all possibilities for private waterways in our country. In other words, it does not allow private individuals to invest in this sector except through the public partnership. Indeed, to those individuals who had made use of the 2013 New Democracy Development Act and who have authorisations, you are only giving them 15 days to accept the transfer of this licence to a public body and to agree with it on the operation. Unfortunately, it is clear that your idealism brakes private initiative, brakes employment and all kinds of investment that can bring about the development that the country needs. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy believes in the development prospects of the waterways. We believe that it is an additional instrument for the development of tourism and the region, and we believe that their authorisation should go ahead. Because through the creation of a satisfactory network, we will be able to develop and bring wealth to every local economy and to that a leading role can and should be played by private initiative. We must not forget where we live, we must not forget where we need to develop initiatives. We must not forget that our country has a comparative advantage for water development due to climatic and geomorphological conditions. For example, in my prefecture the completion of the procedure for the creation of a water resort in the town of Lefkada and Meganissi will significantly strengthen local tourist development and allow visitors to move quickly and easily to the Ionian islands, even in Patras. The bet is, after Lefkada and Meganisi, to follow the waters of Kefalonia and Ithaca, as planned, and to complete the licensing of the waters of Zakynthos. This will create an integrated water network in Ionian and Western Greece, which will not only connect the islands with each other, but will increase the tourist flows and enable them to be interconnected at the same time with neighbouring countries easily, quickly and economically. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. Especially in Greece, due to its islandity and extensive coastline, it is not only appropriate, but also has important development prospects. It's the fastest and most comfortable way to transport in relation to the other means of transport. Also, the development of the water resorts creates added value and new opportunities in the port agencies and the port funds and can be combined with existing tourist infrastructure, marinas and road connections. Ladies and gentlemen, the development that we all very much want does not come with wish. In order for the economy to return, there must be stability, private investments need to be needed, we need immediately foreign investments to produce wealth and create new jobs. We need a turn to entrepreneurship and private initiative, we need a government that does not incriminate every kind of move and prevent any investment that can solve the Gordian link of recession, unemployment and misery, a government that will not do experiments with public finances and taxes, which will not submit draft budgets with scenarios, which will not play with the pain of pensioners and the pain of the unemployed through benefits. The place needs jobs, it needs growth, it needs prospects and credibility, and this can only offer a government in New Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The parliamentary representative, Mr Nikolaos Xydakis, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank all my fellow Members, especially the Anti-Population, who have provided the historical evidence of the existence of waterplanes and waterways since the beginning of the 20th century, since 1920 and 1930. Finally, after a hundred years and too many governments - of the New Democracy, PASOK, EPE, the National Alert - a SYRIZA government in 2018 manages to put them forward. I am very grateful to colleagues who so passionately support this legislative initiative by the government. To listen to us, to understand how we have come to this, how we have come to bankruptcy, how we have come to find out how the misfortune of the productive fabric, the client state, and the lack of faith of the people in democracy have come to us. Some people, of course, ruled with the vote of the Greek people, we all have responsibilities, but some mistakes have been made, slippage, inertia, lack of political will, backwardness, selfishness. Mr. Cavalella, are you saying how the SYRIZA Government is hostile to investment? Do you want to measure how many investments were made in the 1980s and the 1990s and 2000s in Greece? What major investor will come to a country without a Stock Exchange, with a tax law that changes the clients of the State Secretary-General accordingly? What major investor will come to a country where the courts, at least administrative and civil courts, are, as they stand, in the same way as they are, in the same way as veto? You need five, ten years to finish a case and the investor will be here? This state has built and this state has unfortunately sunk over the heads of eleven million Greeks. This state must be rebuilt by all, right-wing, left-wing. Those who believe in democracy must say so. If we believe only in the honors of power and the prefecture of a headless prefecture, as our country has become, without sovereignty, without dignity, without a lesson from those who have managed the country to our children who end the high school, who seek a place not in the labour market only, but a place in their homeland, in society, in the Hellenic Republic, we will teach the lessons, the older, the older, the over 40, the 50, the 60, those who are the beneficiaries of post-war Greece, the benefit of the Greek Post-Multipulation, when it opened the public university, when education and dignity and creativity were backwards for the social elevator and social elevation and advancement in all fields. So let us even leave this historic moment the controversy about who will be the first to snatch the stink of the chair, the thorn and the bankrupt prefecture and create a Greece, a Hellenic Republic. We are going through a historical curve and due to the geopolitical circumstances, which also involves risks and risks and risks, but some raisins are also being opened to use this valuable and very accurate and risky geography that we have inherited. Geography at this stage in some ways takes its vengeance from history. The one who's located somewhere has to make use of it. We will not only sleep with the ghosts of the past, the ghosts of the civil strife and the ghosts of the state of feud. We need to wake up with a future of openness, inventivity and courage. And let us remember that the historic juncture of 2018 finds Greece after eight years of great, fierce recession - it is already taught in foreign seminars and will soon enter university manuals - a country that, in a time of peace, suffered this damage both in its national wealth and in its open wounds still on society and its national dignity and national sovereignty. We will be taught. Let us be taught, then, first of all. The previous ones said here, and Mr. Kefaliannis from New Democracy and others, about the budget. Is anyone aware that the budgets of all European countries, as part of the Financial Stability Pact, are being submitted to the European Semester, are they being discussed and adopted? Formally approved. There is the margin of sovereignty. But, for many years now, we have signed a number of rules on compliance with the norms of the European Union, on deficits, on inflation. This is the golden triad of fiscal stability. These are the iron bonds of EMU. That's what we signed. That is what we are serving, in this context that we are at the moment. If, therefore, the New Democracy colleagues consider that it is wrong for Europeans to accept this preliminary draft budget, they have overheard both the European officials and Regling and Sentene, the President of the Eurogroup. They know better than that. They know better about European law, they know better the rules with which our country operates. So let us lower the tons, let us be more serious and let us be less hypocritical on the subject of the budget and on the subject of the 'Macedonian', for which only grief can cause the huge collapse of any diplomatic chapter of the conservative faction, which has already been built with stones by the interim agreement. Let us not go to 1992 and how the conservative party itself collapsed because it could not take a diplomatic step and support national laws when historical changes in the Balkans took place. The interim agreement was reached, a development and an exchange between the two countries, between FYROM and Greece, began. A lot of people got rich in a legitimate way. They stopped enriching the smugglers who broke the embargo and the "Macedonoptera". And we have reached a point where there is, in fact, an opportunity and a need together to provide a firm solution to the national benefits, national interests and Greece, the great country of the Balkans, the European steam engine in the Balkans, to offer stability, to make a state that is still suffering from the multiple levers of foreign forces - the feeling of which is not at all friendly to Greece, may be also pro-period enemies or advisors - to make a state stable by the dividing threats and by ethnic conflicts, to make a neighbour. We have common borders, we share the same mountains, the same plains, the waters. Not to be a hostage of gangs, drug dealers, gunmen, mafias. Greece, with its multiple GDP, with its unparalleled diplomatic and political power, with the unparalleled military power in the region, will guarantee that this will help to bring rules into place. This is our debt at this critical moment, which changes the balances throughout the Eastern Mediterranean, which the Cold War has become fully in the hybrid war, in the war of intelligence, in the war of influence, in the war of control of rich production sources, as they have always been, and in new geopolitical positions. We need to be where the big game gets, the big deal. That was Greece, already from the Naval Naval battle, for two years to date, and must with imagination, with boldness, with inventivity and with courage to continue to be there. I do not want to take any more time, because all the techniques of legislation have been covered by the State Secretary. Now the Minister will speak and most of the committees have agreed. Just remind me of something. Members who are in a region calling for a serious and lasting interconnection, calling for transport for societies, for goods, for the economy, know and have no serious objections. Those who have objected are the ones who "blue" and absolve and want to make opposition for the opposition, without even having studied the law, to have studied what has been ahead of them and to have heard some things. Because some serious MPs and the opposition have heard that there have been entrepreneurs that have been licensed, the licence has not started to function and they have been bankrupt with this policy of inertia and waiting. Ask the people in Magnesia and other places. They are people who put their money into the waterplanes and went bankrupt, because they have never been licensed or have never been licensed, despite commitments. That's all from me. I hope the Members who understand - and there are many - what a little bit more can mean to some kind of great productive reconstruction to see ourselves again, to vote in favour of this legislation as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, thirty-one students and students and two associates of teachers from the Efpalio Fokida High School. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Vaki has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a sign tabled by our country, which differs almost from the rest of the European Union, is islandity. Insularity is an element which often becomes a disadvantage for those living in island Greece, but there is also an opportunity, since the unique morphology of our country is an attraction for the international tourists. In this context, therefore, the logic of strengthening and improving the interconnection of mainland Greece with the islands, increasing communication between the islands and the direct connection to destinations abroad, this draft law sets out to define the licensing framework for the establishment, operation and exploitation of the waters. Despite the particular morphology of our country, the use of waterplanes - and in countries outside with similar geomorphological characteristics it has been the usual means of transport for decades - it is still a negative originality for the Greek reality, due to the absence of a coordinated national water transport policy. The initiative, therefore, of the leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, aims to resolve at last issues arising from an outdated institutional framework relating to the waterways and, at the same time, to develop modern and stable rules for their licensing and operation in general. In relation to the content of the bill, it is worth first mentioning the fact that the proposed draft law ensures the public character of the waters. It is a fact that characterises the Government's perception of the public nature of the Greek state's infrastructure and differentiates it from the neoliberal concept of complete liberalisation of the economy and infrastructure and weakening the State's regulatory role. Furthermore, it is important to provide for the procedure for the separation of the authorisation procedure from the authorisation and the operation. This regulation is expected to simplify and make the use of water and at the same time, when and wherever necessary, of public-private partnerships. In addition, and recognising the importance of creating water routes, it should be clarified that there is a possibility of being subjected to strategic investment. By serving the strategic objective of the digital modernisation of the Greek state and improving the effectiveness of all its functions and services, it is planned to create the Electronic System for the Monitoring of Aquariums. The complete and up-to-date technical documentation of the waterways shall always be kept in this system, including all information relating to the licensing process and to the operation. Obviously, for the Left-wing Government environmental protection is a fundamental prerequisite for the implementation of any type of investment and for the creation of infrastructure. This draft law therefore includes all the necessary institutional barriers to the protection and respect of the environment, but no time delays arise to the detriment of the timely integration of investments. The small environmental footprint of this instrument in relation to other modes of transport can contribute to the promotion of sustainable development, which is also a strategic objective for the Left Government, and to the promotion of good cyclical economy practices. Since I have the honour of being elected to Corfu, from which the first water network will be launched, I very much appreciate the development benefits and the additional prospects that are being opened for island Greece as well as for the entire national economy. I understand the greatest importance, in addition, of the Eritrean association, which has had to be done for many years now. In addition, with the development of water routes, apart from the increase in the value of public bodies at a time when fiscal sustainability is also a priority for our country, the creation of these infrastructures is expected to work beneficially in order to extend the tourist season. The increased visibility, particularly in remote regions, is going to increase the incomes of regional economies and strengthen local communities. Moreover, the small cost of building their infrastructure is also a significant factor in the development of water infrastructures. In other words, this is an investment with a very high multiplier effect and a relatively low risk. It is yet another proof that growth for our country will arise not only from pharaonic-type cost-effective infrastructure, but it may well arise with small, reasoned interventions, which can also bring about a wide geographical - economic footprint. Finally, in addition to the development benefits of this bill, we must also stand up to the even more essential needs that are to be served, such as emergency and emergency transport of patients and research and rescue operations. Modernising the country's infrastructure and transport is a commitment that has been consistently implemented by our Government since 2015. Infrastructural infrastructures, unfortunately, which have been considered as given for the rest of Europe for many years by the pragmatic political forces of modernization in our country have failed to make them reality, in a number of cases the wealth of the Greek people in expensive and ultimately disastrous works of the national economy. The content, targeting and perception of this draft law is yet another proof that the joint effort of the Government, the healthy productive forces and society must continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Ilias Kasidiaris, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u126	As far as the waters currently being discussed are concerned, as we read in this draft law, licences will be issued in the name of port agencies. The port agencies, the ports of the country, as well as the airports, as well as the wealthy sources of Greece, have been sold out, sold and subject to the TEAD. Here, then, we have another tangible proof of the size, of where the xenophobia has arrived right now in our homeland. It is enough to read only the words of Regling, the head of the ESM, for the Greek people to understand how falsifying this unfaithful - within introductorys - is - 'exit' from the memoranda that those who have broken up Greece. So Reggling says: “Greece has commitments and creditors will judge and decide what will happen with pensions in 2019, but what the government will do with the surplus of 2018.” It is clear - I shall then analyse it with a variety of economic elements - that our country is at the moment a protectorate of foreign forces. This is clearly evidenced by recent, deplorable and ethnic developments in the Skopje issue. There, now, it appears that, apart from Macedonia's name, in addition to Greek history, the national independence of our country has been assigned to foreign forces and the relevant ministers and Prime Minister are United States foreign policy bodies. The Embassy Agreement should be called 'the traitors' agreement', as evidenced by the documentaries who have leaked and seen the light of publicity from the Skopje minutes, which, in fact, the Scottish Government, the government that operates in favour of the interests of Skopje, is what is today presented as Greek - I am not saying 'Greek Government' - and the Tsipras - Kammenos conflict. Of course, this crime of betrayal will surely be punished by the guilty. Incidentally, a civil lawsuit came to Parliament, a lawsuit against Kotzia, which is one of the great guilty parties. It is a most recent treason, on the basis of Article 135 of the Criminal Code, but also of direct synergy - take note of this detail - in a quest for the territorial integrity of the country, Article 138 of the Criminal Code. That is clearly what we are talking about. When Zaev, with whom Kotzias and Tsipras gave hands and Kammenos, of course, as a paradox of this government, goes to vote for this referendum - parody, behind him in a schoolroom, expressed in this picture, the foreign policy of the Skopje is open, there is a map, the Macedonian map of the Aegean, where within the limits of Skopje include Thessaloniki, Halkidiki, a very large part of northern Greece. The foreign policy of Skopje is clear, clearly the official state line of Skopje is the evacuation and occupation of Greek territories. Of course, a direct accomplice to Greece's quest for territorial integrity is Kotzias, Tsipras and Kammenos. Also, there's a lawsuit. There have been dozens of complaints, but no law has been reached by ministers, Prime Ministers, since there is the notorious law on the liability of ministers, which requires thirty Members only to be a committee of inquiry. Unfortunately, the Golden Dawn, at the moment, does not have thirty Members, yet 30 signatures, to lead to the conduct of committees of inquiry. But soon the Golden Dawn, based on the miserable policy of all the parties of the so-called constitutional or non-constitutional arch, will acquire the majority in the House and then with this majority, with a national government, justice will be enforced, there will be justice in Greece and those who have committed this crime, the crime of the last treason will be punished. Of course, to stop the theatre we see on the Internet with Kammenos doing something ridiculous, unorthodox and uncomplicated reports on social media that no longer convince five-year-old children. He's also the Burned accomplice to treason. The stones laugh when he says he's gonna drop the government. How exactly will he shoot the government? With this shit he says he's going, like, to Pakis Pavlopoulou? How will the government fall? The government is only falling if it loses the declared inside the House. In the event of a motion of censure, what will the ANEL Members do there? Will they vote in favour of a motion of censure, as the Golden Dawn voted for the last motion of censure against the SYRIZA - ANEL Government? Will they? Because I am learning - a bird told me - that the ANLLs are spreading that if a motion of censure is made, it is difficult, he says, for the government to fall because the JRC and the Golden Dawn will leave. So don't be silly. The People's Association - Golden Dawn, firstly, requires direct elections, because your Government in no case expresses the majority of Greeks - so it is actually illegal for all the decisions it takes against Greece - and, secondly, the Golden Dawn will certainly vote for any motion of censure. We will do what is human and legitimately possible to bring down this disgusting ethnicist government and we have said it before: As we have thrown the nationalist government of Samaras, we will also throw the nationalist government of Tsipras for the sake of the countryside. To stop, too, this theatre played by the supposedly controversy of Kotzia-Kammenos. I was listening to this infamous interview with Kotzia, during which, among other things, he informed us that, with the Prespecies Agreement or better, "the traitors' agreement", we escaped the risk of "Great Albania". "Great Albania", he says, is currently threatening the Balkans and Greece. How exactly is he threatening us? This foreign policy measure, which laughs at cement every time it makes a public statement, does not tell us how Albanians threaten us? To threaten a state, to exercise, if you like, imperialist politics - to use your own phraseology - it must have an army. What exactly do Albanians have? There are two overcrowdings of Greek F-16 over the enslaved Northern Continent to end any idea of invasion by Albanians. I will keep from the minutes of the Skopje leaders' discussions on the issue of Macedonia a very correct phrase that Dimitrov said and which we have said here in in infinite terms: 'No solution is the problem for Skopje. The non-resolution will lead to the division of Skopje. The non-resolution will lead to the development of centrifugal forces and the dissolution of this state and this will be in favour of national interest.' We have repeatedly analysed what Greece's foreign policy line should be: the non-resolution! That is what the Skopje are afraid of. On the basis of this fear of the Skopje alone if there was a serious national centre with an independent foreign policy, we would have imposed them on them not "Vardaska", but on whatever name Greece wanted to call this state. Because if there was no solution and joining NATO, it was a matter of time for Albanians to develop their alperatorial views in Skopje, where in relation to the Slavic element there of course have power, and there Greece, of course, as a guarantor, as a great force in the Balkans, on the peninsula of Aymos, could enter a armoured division in Skopje, to force peace and, in essence, to become what was not done in '92-93, what Mitsotakis and Papandreou, which was proposed by Milosevic, namely the southern part of Skopje, the Greek territories, the Greek monastery to become part of Greece. Today, these territories and the populations there would belong to Greece. Unfortunately, from 1992 until today, fatal political factors, with ethnicist and ethnicist politics, run Greece. Of course, I cannot say anything - since I mentioned Mitsotakis - to his son's political legacy, who claims the authority of Greece, who dares to do what Golden Dawn asks of every political leader in this House. Does Mitsotakis dare go out and say that he opposes the use of the term "Macedonia" in the name of Skopje? Oh, no. Because the neo-democrats have also given the name 'Macedonia' with any synthetic - we do not care - in Skopje from Bucharest. From Bucharest presented by the New Democracy as a great success, the name "Macedonia" has been given to Skopje since then. And then they refused. It was the VMR on things, it was the Slav nationalists and they refused it, but the New Democracy gave it. As it proved, of course, also with this famous Spyraki series, which told us that it was internationally renowned. They recognize her everywhere, in Brussels, in Los Angeles. She went to coffee, she saw her, and she said, "You're not Spyraki? I saw you at "MEGA" and I know you." He recognized her, and there, of course, Spyraki greeted Mitsotakis. So it wasn't a meeting set up! At that time he called Mitsotakis and gave greetings on his behalf to Skopje! It is assumed that all the political forces that govern Greece have agreed to give the term "Macedonia" to Skopje. All of this is planned and what is stated, in the minutes of the Skopje talks, about the meeting of the representative of the New Democracy with Zaev, that the Mitsotakis policy will depend on the voters of northern Greece, that is, only on the vote, this proved to be a perimeter, that is, it did not have to be written in the "Kathimerini" which carried the Skopje minutes. This proved to be a great deal on the day of the first rally in Thessalonica, which until noon the New Democracy was throwing "black" to the rally and separated its position and after noon, when the millions of Greeks who are willing to fight for the Greekity were shown, then they did a huge fucker. Let the New Democracy say that it does not accept the term "Macedonia" for Skopje. She doesn't say it, because she's not just accepting him, but she's got her signature on this national treason. Let's go a little bit to the economy, which is the big deal. They celebrate some symposia that Merkel can say "yes", to give a suspension of the pension cut for no two months. That's true. Merkel, who has taken everything from Tsipras, has taken up everything she wanted for the illegal immigration, has turned Greece into a prison site, into a waste site, into a place where those who are unwanted throughout Europe will be drafted, has taken Skopje, has taken the national betrayal for our Macedonia, it is very likely that she will give a two-month, three-month extension or four-month extension for the issue of pensions. Of course it is expected that Tsipras will now start sharing money to buy votes. In other words, the surplus, which will be 445 million for 2018, is not even enough for the Tsipra announcements, for the 800 million that he said he would give retrospectively to judges and soldiers, in uniforms. The whole pillow will go away. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the markets, Greece is not going to come out and I close with it. There's no way. When the ten-year bond is not going to fall below 4%, as Tsakalotos, one of yours, is not going to buy Greece. He will eat the pillow in benefits and then go to a new loan contract and a new burdensome memorandum. And the question arises as follows: Who will take the new Kastelorizo on him? Will it be the next government, allegedly the New Democracy Government - PASOK? I believe that this will be the big next coup, the next major New Democracy and SYRIZA coalition, because that is what foreigners want and sooner or later this will be in Greece. And then - and this is the hope for our country - the strong opposition will be Golden Dawn, the only political force that has positions for the economy, which is not based on benefits, but is aimed at self-sufficiency through the development of the primary sector, through the use of Greece's national wealth, is the only political force that says that it will "shape" the Prespes agreement, that it will cancel this suppressive nationalist betrayal agreement. We are the only force to say that we will rid Greece of the gangrene of illegal immigrants. That is why, yes, I believe, because of all these storming developments, we will sooner or later lead to a great coalition, as will the representative of PASOK announced, SYRIZA - PASOK - New Democracy, all the memorandum parties, with strong opposition to the Golden Dawn. And as you know, in this country, whoever becomes an official opposition is not late for the day that will become a government. With a Golden Dawn government, with a national government of Greek patriots, there really is one last hope for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Plakkatakis, from the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me begin by addressing the two amendments tabled by the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. The first amendment refers to the extension of the certificates of airworthiness of vessels and the second to cover the vacancy of the Deputy Director at the Academy of Merchant Navy in Kalymnos. For the first amendment, it is worth mentioning how this transfer occurred, namely the issue of the certificates of airworthiness of ships by the Vessel Inspection. First of all, we had the accident, the sinking of the ship 'Saint Zone II'. By the way, we still do not know the causes of this shipwreck. And even before we draw safe conclusions, the country's Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, instructed the former Minister, Mr. Kourublis, to take responsibility for the Trade Inspection Branch and to transfer it to the classification societies. Oper and legislated by this Minister. Before, however, he should have asked the classification societies: Can you respond to this work? We, then, had expressed certain reservations and said a typical example - and I did not say it at random. Imagine a small fishing boat located on a remote island of our country, Kastelorizo blowing winds of nine and ten Boforts - something that happened in the previous days - should receive a certificate of airworthiness and should not be able to do so. Be careful to see what a contradiction exists. On the one hand, you say that you are requesting an extension for the issue of these certificates by classification societies and on the other hand reintroduce the relevant competence in the local ship inspection stadiums. I will tell you mot a mot, as stated in the rapporteur's report: 'They have competence to monitor and certify small ships under Greek flags. In this way, it is possible for low-priced shipowners to testify to their vessels by a public body, with a low economic price controlled by the State.’ So, our problem is economic? In one case do we have the case that can't be the checks and the person controlled by the same person and, in the second case, the checks and controls can be the same person? And take note of this amazing: last Friday, when the deadline for issuing certificates by classification societies expired on Monday, the relevant Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr Kouvelis, and with a simple mark - take note, with a simple signal, of a ministerial decision - is giving an extension to the issue of certificates of airworthiness, precisely because on Monday several ships would have been bound. And it now comes two days later, with legislative intervention, to effectively correct its own non-legislative decisions. And I ask the Minister, who I believe is listening to me and watching me at this time: what will change after 31 January? Will the classification societies cover all ships and all the boats within the whole territory? How is it possible for the world's first shipping power not to have certified inspectors, who can vertically control the classification societies so that the quality standards of Greek shipping are maintained at a high level? And what country in the world - and here we are talking about the world's first shipping power - are the state authorities, which are fully responsible for complying with international maritime safety regulations and protecting the marine environment, unable to issue the same certificates of airworthiness? And I ask: why has the Presidential Decree on the structure, organisation and operation of the School of Inspectors not been issued? Finally, our country must have certified inspectors, who will clearly be able to control the classification societies. That is what we are talking about in the first amendment. The second amendment refers to the covert position of Deputy Director at the Academy of Merchant Navy in Kalymnos. Watch out for the amazing one here. We have been constantly listening in recent years to upgrade maritime education and academia and that during the next period officials in the maritime sector will be required with high formal and practical qualifications. And what are we doing here? We cover the post of Deputy Director with reduced qualifications. While based on Law 2638/1998 in combination with Law 3450/2006, the qualifications required for this post require Graduates 1 and 2 of order, we reduce qualifications, because that is how it suits us, because we don't find another. Tsatra - a staircase we find a vacant position for some of our favourites, just for the school to function. What school are we talking about? We refer to a school whose work has not yet been completed, which has not yet had the necessary equipment - logistical and educational staff - has not hired teachers, yet has no students, because the Academy of Merchant Navy in Kalymnos has not yet been mentioned. Now they are thinking and trying to find a way for this school to function, because on October 25 they are scheduled to open. This is how the SYRIZA Government perceives the upgrading of naval education. Of course, no appropriations have been provided for the operation of this academy. And I ask: why didn't you get a cadet port guard to finish the story? We need some seriousness, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL. Shipping is a national matter. We need to deal with it with due seriousness and responsibility. Of course, in any case, we cannot agree with such methods and practices. We are therefore voting against both amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u129	Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Papachristopoulos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Before we get to the bill, I think it's worth talking about news. We have learned, not inconsistently, that the spokesman for the Police Department, who denounced secret diplomacy for over two years, met the Prime Minister of FYROM, Mr Zaev. I'm talking about Mrs. Spirakis. The word'reliability' has now lost its meaning. Denounce secret diplomacy for years and arrest you to do exactly that! I don't really want to get into it. The word'reliability', however, to political persons plays a role. Secondly, after listening to all the tones that the ancient, monuments, all, go to the supreme, it took two to three days to blow up this news as well. For no ancient, no monument, neither the White Tower nor anything will go to the superstition. We have also seen that there has been an incredible noise of 1,600,000,000 who have, supposedly, been eaten. The tons are up. And the European Union's responsibility comes out in the most official way and says: 'Nothing has happened.' It's forgotten, too. Let's go to the last disguise now of populism, which for months has been playing on the front pages of newspapers and canals. I even remember Kostis Hatzidakis, who is supposedly a serious politician. How he did not cry in the Senate Hall when Moscovisi implied: “Children, the measure of reduction in pensions may not apply. Don't be sure'! I remember exactly the position of Mr Hatzidakis who said to him: 'What are you talking about? We have it in our schedule. This must be done.’ It was said in the most official way, then, and still no one has decided. Both Sentinel and Moscovisi, even Regling and the International Monetary Fund, have lowered tons, because the surpluses are larger than we expected and this measure, which is not structural, but purely budgetary, will not apply. That's how the mid-size landscape's been working lately. This is about timeliness. Let's go to the bill now. Nikos Xydakis hinted something. I'll show it up again, 'cause I have it in my head. Waterways and waterplanes are history a long time ago. It's a surprise to you. It's history since 1920, a hundred years ago. This country has too many islands. There is no other country in the European Union that has so many islands and I would say not only in the European Union but also in Europe and perhaps in Africa and elsewhere. There may be some, for example complexes in Indonesia, but Greece certainly has too many islands. And I'm not putting on the rock trees, I'm putting on the islands you can visit. It's over two hundred. I want here to make a little regression, because some people are going through it sloppy drinks. It was necessary, I remember, for "The child and the dolphin", to see Sofia Lauren and Tony Marousa sing, to take off Hydra and many other islands. It took the film "Alexis Zorbas" of Kakoyannis with the drawer of Mikis Theodorakis to take off all Crete and other islands. And recently an actor who has taken Oscar, Matthew McConah, said bithymphs on four main channels for the Greek islands. What prevented you in so many decades that you are ruling the country from taking advantage of this terrible advantage. And you come here today and you're criticizing. "We have created - he says - the legislative framework for two years and you have not been using it." Are you serious? I've been going to Patmos for twenty-four years. And the walnuts are waiting for the Patmies twenty-four years on this waterplane, and you've been veiled for two years? Have you forgotten that you've handed in a bankrupt country? Did you forget? Did you forget we got 325 billion dollars of debt? Did you forget that one quarter of all Greek property disappeared? Did you forget you gave us an unemployment at 27.5%? Have you forgotten all this? Were they immediate priorities? And now that something's going to happen, you remind me of this chronic atabism, like you've been put on a line and you're saying things that don't stand. I have heard a lot of hard criticism of why the private sector is not coming forward. Can you believe it? If a child gets sick in Ereussa, if she's a pregnant woman, will you go to the private and say, "Please bring me the waterplane?" If you have ten missing persons who fell in, ruined their ship, something happened, will you go to the privateer and tell him: "Please take the waterplane there"? Are we serious? Are you saying this in public, at the same time that businessmen - and the Minister and Mr Mavragans have told you ten times - consent to the legislative framework and say 'Yes, we want it'? I'll come back to Patmos, it's an island I've been visiting for twenty-four years, and I know it from the outside. There is no airport and the winter is difficult, and the ferry transport is too. The easiest, cheapest and fastest means, which are the water roads, is a solution. Here we are talking about airspaces that cost incredible money and are dangerous, and we have an instrument that is fast, immediately. Can I say something? Although I'm not a man of money, but I think this story that starts now and should have started for decades, it leads to growth, yes or no? The word 'development' is made up of content for the country that has so many islands. It's on tourist season, and instead of two months, can it be five and six? It's fast, cheap, and above all safe way. I mean, why none of the speakers stressed it, that we never had an accident with the waterplanes. They came sometime in 2004, they lasted until 2008, and in a strange way they left again. Some businessmen lost their money. Why? Why are you saying that you are the 'cups' of the market, this advantage from the country's geography, you have not taken advantage of it? All of us are told that this government sabotages investment. So you, who don't sabotage them, what did you do forty-five years? What did you do? What did you do to take off the country? Does the word "insularity" make sense to you? What's the point? Let me get this straight. I do not want to say any more and I will not have time, Mr President. Thank you. I think it is a bill - and I would like to welcome the view of the River and the opinion of Mr Saridis of the Centroon Union - very good indeed, with very little reservations, two-tiers. I also want to say a good one to the Ministry's team, who sat down and worked in a proper way this bill, which takes off not only from all sides, but also economically in the country, and it is a tangible response to those who in all tons who speak of the worst government, saying "what evil did find us", "go away from where you came" and so on. I conclude by saying this: this country - it is not an exaggeration - is the planet's 'chilet' in all respects. Some have become this country a beggar. This government intends to stop it here, stop this curse of offshore, of economic heavens, which no one knew what was going on. I think sooner or later he'll make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Zaroulia, have you asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u132	Yes, Mr President, for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u133	Do you want to wait until the Minister speaks? Minister, would you like to speak now? Can Mrs Zaroulia speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u134	No, I'll talk later, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u135	We all want to talk about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u136	A two-minute dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Colleague, I'm managing the requests. They have to testify. Mrs Zaroulia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall refer to the amendments, but we have already had a confession from Mr Dritsa. He confessed that the so-called 'constitutional bow' could not withstand dialogue. If we get the minutes of the meetings of the Committee on Production and Trade, we will find who is uncomfortable with the rise in the percentages of the Golden Dawn and start the attack with insults and slanders that, of course, could not remain unanswered. In all cases, both the leftist Dritsas, who praises totalitarian regimes that have bloodthirsty the whole world, and the rest of the democrats, in the act he confessed to from Helms just now, that the Chamber was cleared during my speech, proves to the satisfaction of those who are deeply anti-democratic, stalinic fossils, who, among other things, do not even respect the presumption of innocence, while at the same time defending'red' terrorists - murderers who have been convicted by final decisions. I shall now refer to Amendment 1764/33, which deals with the arrangements of the Athens Urban Transport Organisation Anonymity Company, OSCE SA, Thessaloniki Transport Project Agency, "OSETH SA", and the Joint Funds for the collecting of Anonymity Bus, "KELS SA". This amendment enables the Athens and Thessaloniki CCELs to operate urban transport services and the routes proposed by the CCEE and the OSCE are approved by decision of the Minister for Transport. In the contracts to be drawn up, the way in which the parties cooperate and make available the material and human resources will be determined. Paragraph 5 provides for the obligation of the CBS to install telematics systems and systems for the operation of the electronic passenger ticket within four months of the publication of this. Finally, paragraph 7 provides for contracts to be drawn up to determine how the material and human resources are to be mixed and made available by the contracting parties. It is essentially a partial re-privateisation as part of the OSEI transport project is given to one of its major shareholders. One year after the organization was publicized, the Ministry entrusts private transport to villages in Thessaloniki. According to discussions that had taken place a few days ago, the aim is to withdraw the OSTH from the streets of Thessaloniki, in order to save buses, to meet the needs of the city complex, where it is unable to respond. According to the bill, in these areas the Thessaloniki CCEL will return, as was done before the expansion of the service area by OSTH, which had taken place in two phases, in 2003 and 2011. How is it possible one year after the - with a lot of drumbusiness - to statize OSTH, the government itself now move on to the partial re-privateisation of the organisation by giving part of the transport project to a private company and, in fact, without an invitation to tender? Also, why did the President of the OSH disagree with his statements? In the issues of strengthening outward-looking transport and developing new roads and fixed transport there is no objection on the record, but our permanent position is that transport should be controlled, supervised and operated by public bodies. The question of imposing fines in the event of non-implementation of routes may not solve the problems that the provision wants to address. There is a question of monitoring and denouncement of non-enforcement of services, and we are not sure that, under the current conditions, the fines provided for will be so easily imposed. The next provision concerning the overlapping of areas within the competence of various operators of transport works is governed by the spirit of the free market and may cause problems relating to the fact that the contracts will obviously target the greatest possible profit, which may lead to the creation of a private price cartel, such as in other areas of the liberal economy. The introduction of telematic and electronic ticket systems may serve passengers in a better way, but the provision will probably lead to a transfer of installation costs to the cost of tickets. For the participation of the shareholders in the assemblies, we have nothing to notice. We think it is self-evident that a shareholder should participate in the assemblies of his company, because his own interests are affected. But we always disagree with the far too much privacy of transport. This amendment contains provisions which can be regarded as even positive, but the negative provisions prevail, according to our own philosophy, and we are therefore opposed to it. With regard to Amendment No 1768/35, the inspection was abolished, they gave all the certificates to private classification societies and undermined the role of ship inspection by taking responsibility for the Inspection Branch of the Port Authority's Trade Ships because of the "Saint Zone", which, according to the conclusion of the National Technical University, was not an accident. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me two more minutes, Mr. President. This amendment therefore continues the criminal attitude of the Ministry's political leadership in not controlling the Port Authority's Maritime Inspection Branch and transforming the Port House into a compass. We're against it. With regard to Amendment No 1769/36, we are against. As far as Amendment No 1772/38 is concerned, we shall vote 'the present'. This amendment concerns the regulation of the topics of motor vehicles and driving licences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Zarulia. Mr. Vlao, would you like the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u140	No, the Minister must speak first.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u141	I think you told me before you wanted to speak before the Minister. I asked the Minister to speak, and if I understood it correctly, he told me he wanted to hear you, but... Minister, would you like to speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u142	We talked, the Minister hasn't spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u143	I know, Mr. Vlach. The Minister said, if I understood correctly, he'd rather talk, but there's no reason. We're changing the show. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, I have no problem speaking now, provided I know at least whether the New Democracy is voting in the first place or not. It has been kept in the committees to tell us in plenary, but we are still wondering what it will do. Will you vote for it? Will you vote against it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u145	Minister, this is when it comes to voting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u146	When it comes to voting time. I imagine that it has become clear from my position what we are going to vote on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u147	Yes, Mr. Vlavo, we understand. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, before I begin my speech, I should like to say for your sake that a legislative improvement is being tabled. In the second paragraph of Article 21 of the draft law, the words ‘the Civil Protection Service’ and the words ‘the Port Regulatory Authority (RAL)’ are added to the words ‘, to the Public Port Authority (DAS)’, as requested by Mr. Thodouros Dricas, whom I congratulate on the continuing complaints of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u149	Amendments Nos 1762 and 1773 on the regulation of personnel of air traffic controllers and amending Article 70 of Law No 4530/2018 are also accepted. An amendment has also been tabled by the Democratic Incorporation - an addition to the examinations of candidate drivers and examiners, which is, in some cases, incorporated into the bill that will be tabled in the course of the week, Mr Jellée, so we will be dealing with the matter very thoroughly. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law attempts two major areas in the institutional framework for the authorisation of water and in the institutional framework of urban transport. I would like at the beginning of my position to thank all their parties and rapporteurs for the systematic work and constructive remarks made to Parliament's committees whether they vote at first instance, such as Potami and KINAL, or not. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to briefly refer to the history of the bill, since it has been formed after exhausting consultation with all the parties involved and after systematic cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Shipping, which I would like to thank, but also with the relevant European Commission departments. In particular, I shall briefly mention the timing of the actions which led to the final version of the draft law. The main principles were presented and decided at the KYSOP in June 2016. A public consultation took place in August and September 2016, and until October 2016 the comments of the consultation were processed and incorporated. The law was then passed - which is a large section - on the revision of the Civil Aviation Service. Let me remind you that the ADA is not an independent authority. It is a public service, however, with all those procedures that ensure the independence of its administration. The same law was updated and adapted to the Waterways, meetings and cooperation with the relevant Ministries until February 2017, the draft accompanying reports were drawn up in March 2017 and then the consultation with DG MOVE began at the beginning of May 2017 and with the institutions. The last replies and final approval were granted in May 2017. This is about water routes. For urban transport, the treatment started in December 2017, comments were incorporated in December and March and in April 2018 a consultation was held with stakeholders. Then the entire bill passed by CENE on April 17, 2018. In May 2018, we had final meetings with the institutions. The CNE's practice is on 27 April 2018 and was sent to the Government's General Secretariat for the collection of signatures on 19 June 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law we are attempting a holistic framework for the licensing and operation of the waters, with the main aim of this means of transport being an important pillar of the promotion of combined transport and ensuring the social needs of Greece and of coastal and coastal regions. We are trying in the small islands, which are not tourists, in coastal areas, to break isolation. Secondly, we must create an area of tension that substantially strengthens and broadens the country's healthy and productive forces and within them and the tourist product, and thirdly, we must bridge mainland with island Greece by causing positive, social, cultural, cultural and humanitarian side effects. In order to do this, which is acceptable to everyone, I imagine, we need a comprehensive licensing and regulatory framework, which clearly defines the role of each of the parties, to describe in particular the documents of the technical file, the procedures, to simplify the licensing procedure, to digitalise the manuals and procedures and, of course, to provide for the active regulatory role of the public and not the passive role, to incorporate and update all the rules and good safety practices of aviation and user protection. The main feature, in addition to what we have discussed in detail, is the political choice of separation between the right to establish and the authorisation to operate a waterway, which was made on the basis of the previous experience of the two previous laws, which we saw could not really issue uniform licences quickly. In particular, the provisions of Part One provide for the authorisation to set up a water service granted only to the public, to legal persons governed by public law, to local authorities, first and second, to legal persons governed by private law having a majority of the shares in the public. It's obvious why this is happening. It is done, in a number of activities, in countries that honor themselves and I will explain it afterwards. The environmental licensing process is facilitated, the possibility of using the port area is institutionalised. There were no such things, that is, a waterplane could not use - even in exceptional situations, extreme weather conditions - the facilities of the port, landed or debilitated through the port. Of course, the process is divided into two stages. The legal requirements are being simplified, the safety measures for the waterways are being strengthened, the process is being divided into the approval of manuals, an electronic licensing monitoring system is being established and, of course, the tariffs for the services of the waterways are being applied. Ladies and gentlemen, I am listening to the criticism of Officer Opposition of the draft law on supposedly delays, on oligopoies in the development of water, on dogmatism and detention. Dear colleagues, there was an institutional framework for the waterways and Law 3333/2005 with a government of New Democracy and Law 4146/2013 with a government of New Democracy. The results? All twenty-seven applications. All three licences, one in 2014, the other in 2015. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, half the minutes were the presentation of the legislators. Three single permits all three to public bodies. I really don't understand why you're exercising this criticism unless you want to make your self-criticism. If the latter is the case, I would like to congratulate you! Why did this project fail and what are the differences we have? Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are not in favour of the private sector, as you would like to say. You are in favour of an uncontrolled private sector, you are in favour of self-regulation of the market. And this in modern times, this extreme neoliberalism beyond that it has led us to a deep economic crisis, has also failed. One of the areas in which he has failed is the waterways. So let's see what happened in the past few years in that logic. There has been a marketing of permits to all renewable energy sources for years. They were not developed in the country because it was not about making wind or photovoltaic parks, but about marketing licenses. The same thing was happening with the water routes. How do you see how to deal with this problem? Are we going to have a holistic design in the country for the waterways or not? Are there going to be waterways where we don't have commercial or tourist areas? Will we have waterways if the private for any reason after its establishment and construction cease its operation? These answers are obviously not given by the New Democracy. We are accused of not giving private individuals the right to set up water routes, but only to operate them. The New Democracy must remember itself, the Constitution of 1974, the protection of the Aegean and the beach, and to abandon the extremes of neoliberalism. Why is it that you are cutting if the establishment permits are in the private sector? So let's see what happened so far. Let's see what happened in Corfu. Two licenses of water were issued in Corfu and Paxos. Both are in a public body, in the Port Fund and in both water centres. Why are we going with these procedures? Let's go, because, as soon as we have learned, a call of interest - not a competitive procedure - and after the invitation of interest, which one was concerned, became a joint company between the Port Fund and the interested party without a competitive procedure, which had 51% of the individual, 49% of the Port Fund and we had a neology: we had 52% of the revenues in the Port Fund and the remaining 48% in the private sector. It's going crazy! What is the transparency established by previous laws? What are the rules of healthy competition? How are social needs ensured? None of this. We're talking about where he was interested...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u150	Admission of the public that he can't handle this is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u151	Oh, no. This is the assumption that the self-regulation market, which is promoted as a policy, fails, because the healthy market wants a Greek public, a state that ensures healthy rules, protects social needs, has a transparent framework. I don't think Mr. Vlach is in that logic, but what does he do? When we say that some are sad that we got out of the memorandum, these are now showing up, with such development bills. We found a draft law prepared in 2015 to support New Democracy's logic. What's he saying? We have the term 'water fields'. Water fields are not waterways. Water fields are a defined area where a waterplane can be sead without a waterplane. That is what we said to the committee that it is the logic of 'Indiana Jones'. It is not forbidden for a water plane to leave a waterway, to go to second, third, fourth, etc. What is forbidden is without security, without any determination to go to different areas, without ensuring that citizens, amateurs, bathers who go to these areas and eat any waterplanes in the head, because some want to ensure a tourist product that does not give any value to the country. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Of course, no strategic planning was envisaged. You are proposing that we make discounts on the standards in the small islands, a blurred framework, and that we also ignore social needs. I say this, why do you say: 'But do we have a portal on the small islands? Needs are smaller." Do you ignore the smuggling done or attempted to be done in all these areas, not to say worse than smuggling? You all know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u152	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, I will conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u154	Minister, Mr. Mavraganis has also spoken for 15 minutes. You have to hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, I speak nine minutes, because the first ones were legal. All the parliamentary representatives were tolerant and the Minister did not have it. So I imagine that the Chair, regardless of who is chairing it, must have uniform rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u156	But you can't hear me. I'm telling you, you've made a protology...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u157	I haven't made a protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u158	But you've done it. Here, that's what I see.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u159	I haven't made a protology. How is it going to happen now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u160	Please, if you haven't done it, then I've been misinformed and I apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u161	I haven't spoken at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u162	I'm sorry. I had to give you fifteen minutes then and not nine. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u163	He hasn't spoken at all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u164	That's right. I haven't spoken. I also want to testify for history and say something good for Mr. Kostis Hatzidakis, because so far I have not said anything good in the Chamber about Mr. Hatzidakis. When he passed the last law, the reports and all the sites - quite accidentally - said: 'Stop wings on the waterplanes', because - listen to why - it is extended by three - four members, because there would be fire-fighting instruments as provided for by the Regulation, because, with regard to the water fields - what you are saying - we are forbidden to be over one flight in the water and it should be more than three hundred metres from the coastline, etc. In other words, whenever another not basic rule was attempted, but I too don't know what, some people rushed to conquer this effort. So we say 'no discounts on the standards of water supply'. I would really like us to commit to a few things, because the New Democracy has said that the functionality of the law will be judged in practice and we want to make bets on ourselves and on society and achieve them. In three months' time, then, there will be a holistic strategic plan for all the waters in the country and in April there will be permits for the majority of the waters in the country where there is no private interest. Many of these will be built or created. I'm saying that to cover the Gregory Fisherman. Here it seems really to be possible to develop a progressive front in relation to the neoliberal forces and the progressive forces. In the second part of the draft law, we are creating the regulatory framework for the urban transport of the country, other than the Region of Attica and the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. Was there a law on urban transport? There was. Who was he serving? Definitely not the small urban centers, certainly not the domestic forces. Why has New Democracy for so many years not changed the law from 2001 to 2015? Why? So, I wonder. Over the years, there has been no attempt not only for this, but also for the creation of a framework of qualitative and quantitative assumptions with characteristics of regional planning that unites signifiably but also, essentially, strategic planning for transport networks. The design of urban networks that we are attempting with quality characteristics, namely vehicle technologies, with vehicle specifications, with frequency, with connectivity, with other transport networks, with more quantitative elements - that is, what the financial and economic adequacy of operators is, how the cost is calculated, how transport taxes, population data - were not attempted by anyone. So how did you ensure that the country implements the European Regulation and does not turn transport into a profitable field alone without meeting social needs? This is what we are trying to do with the draft law. We are creating a simple operational and detailed regulatory framework, where urban passenger transport will be carried out, where workers and employment relations will be guaranteed, the conditions and conditions for the award of exclusive rights will be defined, the network of lines will be formed and, finally, reliable and transparent tenders with qualitative and quantitative indicators in these contracts will be carried out. Most of all, however, we want to ensure - and this is our objective - that of society and the social needs of the worker moving through these instruments. I will not go into detail the articles and the provisions of the draft law. But what Qualified Opposition has been demanding is inside. It's grouping in constituencies or not. It is the definition of the urban lines. It's about having a holistic design. It is the establishment of monitoring committees by representatives not only of the Ministry but of the regions, of the municipalities, of the Tropics, of all those involved in it. I'd like to say one important thing. Public road transport will now be included in SGEIs, i.e. the General Economic Interest Services. So from the savings made by the waste that has been done for so many decades, social groups need to be subsidised throughout Greece and not just where they have public urban transport.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u165	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u166	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll be out in two minutes. I would ask you very much for your tolerance because there has been too much that is important. They also sound in society and create gray zones.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u167	Okay, but also the Secretariat insists that you've made a 15-minute and ten-second prototype speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u168	Ask the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, SYRIZA, whoever you want. I didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u169	The Bureau is not lying. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u170	How can I not insist? I didn't!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u171	Do not insist, because it has been noted here that you have spoken 15 minutes and seven seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u172	In football too, Mr President, there is a repetition. Look at the video. I haven't had a first talk. What to do!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u173	There's too much comfort to talk. That's another thing I didn't talk about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u174	But I didn't talk. What's going to happen now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, the amendments had been discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, he did not speak first. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u177	We're going to Attica to OSCE and Thessaloniki to OSH. I ask, should there be or should there be no planning for the whole Regional Unit of Attica and Thessaloniki? Is there or should there not be a reliable system for monitoring routes and passengers, whether they are in public urban transport or are they from the CBELs? Should there be penalties for public or private entities cutting off routes? Do we have to leave the logic of hostage local communities from passenger transport schemes without control, without quality, without integrated planning? Should Attica have a starting point in the Mars Field and in Thessio when we have in between all the metro and suburban stations? Should there be unregulated KATEL routes that are not connected to the suburban? Shouldn't we do this sometime? In Thessaloniki with the settings activated the PHYTH. And that's the problem! It is now the end of this para-state, miserable, "terrestrial" OSH mechanism. There is a public body for urban transport, without what we have received, without hundreds of millions being wasted, without being appointed to the private, supposedly OSTH most of the cases of the Members of the New Democracy, without OSH taking over areas and routes even outside the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki on one hand and giving sub-contracting with the other hand on profitable lines. The OSTH telematics system was covered by seven contracts in a private company, while OSTH did not have the codes either. There had to be over five hundred buses and there were two hundred fifty-four. Twelfth-year buses were sold for 800 euros and 1000 euros for scrap and were held for over twenty years. There had to be 37 million reserves for new buses and there were 700 euros. So those who invoke and dream of privatization of the urban transport of Thessaloniki and Athens are just dreaming. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not reproduce the privileged area of old-fashioned communism built up for decades in transport. It was the main place to serve economic interests and waste and rumours. Let us remember the barren airline lines. From 46 million a year by competitions we went to 10 with the most quality services. In OSTH in the first year we had 45 million less spending than we had given to the private OSTH. This is the private sector the state figure that New Democracy wants to protect. And, in fact, we want to be shocked and look for wider shocks, but protecting society and healthy productive forces. In conclusion, urban transport changes a page with the country, outside the monuments, and water and water planes are part of combined transport, covering social needs and building the development infrastructure that support healthy productive forces, implementing Alexis Tsipras' plan and vision for fair growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how it is organized, twenty-eight students and students and three attendants of their teachers from the Efkida High School (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. George Vlach has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is your right to keep your seats. It is not your right, however, to distort the positions of Officer Opposition. You said the New Democracy wanted uncontrolled private sector. I didn't say that. Where did you interpret it from? I said that the Port Authority of Piraeus will be able to establish a waterway. When you've given him the organization, that is, the big one, to have the possibility for the little one as well. And if it is necessary for this reason to impose further financial burdens, it should be imposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u180	That's what we're up to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u181	You'll explain to me how it is planned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u182	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u183	I don't understand how it's planned. And I'm talking about establishing, not running. Secondly, I made a number of comments in the first part, which you did not reply to. For example - I will briefly tell you - I told you about the flight work. You've told me that for two years you've done two and a half. And I asked you, what is the point if you do not specify what time starts to count. You told me about the permits that they were not transferred and you did the two years, three. Now I'm telling you what I remember from what you said this morning. And I say this: since they are not transferred, what is the value of the two years being three? I would therefore expect the Minister to make his prototype, because on the bill he hadn't been placed, to hear what he accepts and what he does not. So in these remarks we made this morning, you did not answer us. I said'most water fields'. You have interpreted it and told me 'to stop anywhere'. But I didn't say that. I said 'determined...' - obviously - '...water fields, which will have laid down minimum rules for movement safety'. Apparently that's self-evident.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u184	They didn't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u185	And they still don't exist. And there's a ban. That's what I told you this morning and for them, so far we haven't got any answers. I'm coming to the second place. You said that you accepted the remarks of the opposition. I for grouping, for Article 45, said: What the PDO is proposing was not something I saw you accepting, namely that the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport is calling for a geographical area including urban areas of more than one municipality, whether neighbouring or not, for the provision of services of high quality and at the same time for the viability of the concessionaire, as we said, Kos and Rhodes. I didn't see that anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u186	There isn't?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u187	Oh, no. If there's one of your partners to show me. I wish there was.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u188	Article 45 is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u189	Yeah, I'll see it again. We talked about the installation issue, about the offices, about an extension. That's what we expect to see. And you are bringing these amendments to the table today - so that I can slowly move on to the amendments, Mr President. No one will say 'no' to the existence of a sentence, if indeed the CBS or any body, does not perform its tracks, stops, etc. But you cannot start at EUR 2 000 and double at EUR 4,000. Start a little human and if...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u190	We changed it. We put it in a ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u191	Good. So you changed that. You did it by ministerial decision. Secondly, in paragraph 3 of this amendment, you say 'by road passenger transporter'. There it should be clear - unless you want to open a window to someone other than the CBS - that in the event of a refusal to draw up the contract from the local competent CBS, you are resorting to another solution. Because a concern has been created...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u192	It's clean.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u193	No, it's not clean. You don't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u194	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u195	No, you say ‘... in the event of a non-convention with the relevant CBEL’.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u196	‘In case of refusal to draw up a contract.’
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u197	No, it does not say "negative". It says 'in case of non-training'. To enter the "negative" as well. I mean, if the Kappa Kappa Tau isn't cooperative, you'll probably be looking for a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u198	Same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u199	No, you say 'non-training', you do not say 'negative'. You say at the end “... electronically installed telematics and electronic ticketing systems...” etc., “... within four months”. I'd say this time is a bit short. There is no disagreement on the substance. Obviously, this has to be done. And for the online ticket, we'll also agree on telematics. In any event, the four months should take place at least six months. I come to the last, where you say that these assemblies should not be transferred by a proxy or by a representative. Look, at CCT, these people work, they go on their way. They're either going on their way to their area or going to the convention. We "put the buses on the train station, go to the assembly" at the KESC is an unknown phenomenon. Is that what you suggest that we should stop moving people to the assembly? This has served so far. It doesn't change anything about it. And, in any case, do you want it to be transferred up to a percentage that the buses say? It can be done. But it is a practical issue, which you do not solve. It would be a good thing if everyone were involved. And I imagine that all the owners would like to go to the assembly, to participate, to say their views. However, if they have to go on the road and go to the convention, they will prefer to take the route, because that is how they have to. You say not to get lost, and on the other hand you tell them to go to the convention. That's what you need to solve. As long as, of course, the OSCE and OSCE issues I have to tell you that the protests on the part of the workers' unions are many. And they said something quite obvious: it can only come to one, there can be no consensus, no call on the institutions, no say their views, and suddenly this amendment will come. I don't understand. If you knew that you would bring amendments, why didn't you bring them from the committee? Why not have we called on these bodies involved to tell us their views, to become a better job, to make things more clearer and not to go to just one, running all of us, to say our views? I do not understand why you are doing this, that is to say, if it is inappropriate. Why do I have to choose one of the two here: Is it intentional, or is it sloppy? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I continue with the amendments, Mr President. There is the amendment of the general number 1760, ‘EVIA-exemption’, etc. It goes without saying that we are in agreement. There are two amendments to which Mr Placiotakis has spoken - during the vote I will repeat, I think it is 1767 and 1764 - with which we are negative. There is the amendment that you brought in with electric cars, which I would like to say two words about. Obviously in the first two parts we are totally in agreement. We have a disagreement with this adventure you want to put the seventy-four years old. I don't understand why you're doing this. They should go back up and run tests. Why would a seventy-four-four-year-old give an exam? Because he obviously can't drive. Why can't he drive? Because he's obviously sick. So he'll find out for a doctor. You want the pathologist? Do you want the ophthalmologist? You want to put a neurologer on? Do you want to put on other doctors? I understand that. But I don't understand how to go back to the exam to tell us if he forgot to drive. Because we don't forget. It can't be. Whether the instructor can't decide. In order not to open up industry now and everyone should go back to exams, doctors should find out if they can, not if they know. Well, I'm sure he knows. The instructors will decide if he knows. If you insist on this amendment bringing it into a single one, despite the fact that the first two parties are totally in agreement, because of this disagreement in the third part we cannot vote on it. I have spoken about Amendment No 1764. To close, if there is any other clarification, during the vote on the amendments I will say a phrase. Mr President, after all this debate which has taken place and the effort we have made, we will vote in favour of the principle, because we do not want to give anyone the right to claim that investment is being made and that the New Democracy refuses it. We have enough reservations. It is precisely the articles in which we shall vote negatively and, of course, to which we shall vote positively. However, our remarks and objections to critical issues remain. Obviously the functionality of this law will be judged by time from the next period. We hope it will move on. However, we want here to state that any weaknesses are occurring - which we consider will appear - I imagine in the next period - and indeed with a political change that exists before us - will improve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Cameroon has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u201	Does the Minister want to precede?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u202	Better at the end. Unless I'm allowed by the President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u203	Do you want it now or what?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u204	Minister, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u205	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has not understood and asked me...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u206	You know that this isn't the case. To help...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u207	I will be very brief, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u208	There is no such procedure. Please shorten the clarification as long as you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u209	I'll be briefed. Thank you very much. Let us see what the New Democracy asks and returns. We predict that the right to establish will be in a public body. The authorisation may be either to a public body or to a public-private partnership or to a private body.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u210	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u211	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u212	Don't repeat it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u213	Immediately after you ask us what will happen with the ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki. That's exactly what's gonna happen. If, in other words, the concessionaire is interested in setting up a public body, he will go to the Public Authority of Port, which Mr Dritsas had predicted, he will tell him about what honour the license will come out and then there will be a competitive procedure, because one can give more than one that we had in this competition and get more of the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u214	Inside the area of responsibility of the Port Agency, is anyone else going to make a waterway?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u215	Inside the area of responsibility of the Public Authority Ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki, provided for.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u216	Is someone else going to make a waterway in the area? Is that what you're telling me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u217	I'm saying self-evidently. I'm saying we can't do gifts from the window. That's what I'm saying. I say the self-evident ones that apply throughout the Western world that respects itself. Mr. Vlavo, I have a question about what you have raised for our fellow citizens who are aged. This was voted on by Law 4530. The New Democracy had voted for this. We are making it clear, because some - for other reasons, in my opinion, but it is not at the moment - do not accept these people's requests. It is therefore clear that by depositing medical attestations and their application, the validity is extended for three months until their examination. And since you had voted for it at the time, because it is rational, because it has the acceptance of society, why don't we make people pay neither drivers nor anything like that, but someone has to find out...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u218	You put them on. How you don't get them. Is this going to be free?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u219	Mr. Vlavo, you have a lot of experience. Have you seen the certificates and attestations run? Have you seen them operate as they should on the streets of Greece? Really, now. So we have a special examination. We will, however, discuss this in the next draft law on driving licences, as well as many other, very detailed ones. But it hasn't worked until now. It is another transport area where old-fashioned, gray zones, opacity - not to say anything worse - were blossoming. Another space! You also asked about the water fields and I end with that, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance. Let me tell you the dreadful development plan that existed in the minds of some: To go a hydroplane to land next to a ship arrow, like a big cruise ship, to take some passengers, to start riding them on various islands to see them and return them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u220	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u221	You are not saying this, but I am telling you the plan of self-regulation of the market which does not serve neither the social needs nor the healthy productive powers of the country, nor the tourism product, but the pocket of some people. These drafts of laws we found ourselves ready and that's what we overturned, and that's why they took three years to come to the House, because we got out of the memorandum and at last the part of the national sovereignty that some had given, was recovered back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Members who take the floor not to distribute their position with questions, because if the Minister answers every time, we will not finish. I would ask that we proceed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We are putting in place the amendments. Mr. Cameroon has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u223	I agree, Mr President. I'll be brief. The courtesy and mild tone of the interventions and the nature of Mr Vlachos, who has helped in this whole process and the meetings of the committees, does not allow me to go any further on a number of issues, for example whether the New Democracy is in favour of the immunity of private undertakings. I am sure Mr Vlacho does not agree - and the Minister mentioned examples - neither with OSH nor with graceful contracts nor with contract revisions, etc. I am sure Mr Vlacho does not agree with that and I will not stay in this. All I can say is that during the debate in the committees, particularly at second reading, Mr Vlachos spoke for half an hour, and he did well - he tabled his proposals for an article - an article of 90 per cent and more of these proposals. So I think the reason that they weren't all accepted is not true. I would like to stay further: Mr Placiotakis - and it is no coincidence that Mr Vlachos did not mention it - argued against the amendment, which helps to establish immediately the Navy School in Kalymnos. Mr. Plakyotakis, you may not know that Kalymnos has the highest number of students and students in maritime schools. The establishment of the Kalymnos School is not within a project, as you used to do, to become schools in areas of a number of Ministers. It is Kalymnos's right that students and students do not leave there, because by themselves they can cover this school, but much more they will help the wider area. As for the deterioration you are saying, because that is what Mr Plakkatakis said, that, for my part, we are talking about upgrading, and with all this we are making a deterioration in maritime education, you are not right at all. Kalymnos is a pioneer, it is the one with a decompression chamber, which has diving schools, and in fact there is a prospect of raising all this and it has the whole prospect of becoming a model of naval school. As for infrastructure, they're ready. The building's ready. The city has it. So I think you should apologise to the Kalamnius because you are not voting for an amendment that helps to be staffed and operated immediately by the school. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr. Cameroon. Mr. Jellonis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot answer, Minister, whether we have come out of the memorials and acquired our national sovereignty, when one and a half months after the Prime Minister's triumphant declarations, we are waiting today to see whether or not pensions will be cut off. Now in relation to the bill: in the case of water and road transport, we have made our points. Many of them have been accepted. It is clear that there has been a dialogue in committee and with the institutions. There's been a lot of legislative improvements. Our reservation is to permit the establishment of the waters where it is necessary for everyone to take part in this process - and public and legal entities governed by public law and private investors - since, on the basis of the existing legislation, public administration, as regards concessions to a private port operator, is absolutely guaranteed. I would like to refer to the amendments tabled and, in particular, to the amendment with a general number of 1764 on the arrangements for the Athens Urban Transport Organisation, as well as the Thessaloniki Transport Project Agency. This is where we see the oxymomile of dogmaticism that is indeed true. A year ago there were drum impacts, there was a triumph about the state-of-the-art OSH. For our part, as a Democratic Alliance - so as not to misunderstand ourselves - we were clear at the time that we wanted open, public transport with a crucial role for self-government and institutions in the region, namely the city of Thessaloniki. Today, one year later, the government proceeds to partial re-private the organisation, giving part of the transport project to a private company CBEL or even to a private company, where it says, 'will take over the passenger road operator'. I ask, did not he then know, when he was completely stacking OSTH, that there was not the required number of buses in OSH to produce the transport work he was called upon to produce? Therefore, instead of buying buses or giving ELVO a job to build buses, it gives bus lines, urban lines, overcrowd lines, which OSH currently serves, to private buses or to a private passenger transporter. In fact, instead of giving the co-legislative ministries the money they have to pay today, OSH is asked to pay a fine if he cannot carry out some of the lines he had to, when we knew in advance that he did not have the necessary number of buses. Today we see that there is a reaction from the other side and from the workers, where they too have been surprised by the amendment tabled last night. They are talking about philatelicity and the assignment of a urban project of recent public responsibilities by OSTH to private CBELs and, at the same time, they are entering a mobilisation process. I am really asking, Minister, for your part, before you proceed with this application of the amendment, to have a dialogue with both the citizens of the city and with the workers. In relation to the Athens Urban Transport Organisation, on the one hand you say "hard public urban transport" and on the other you open the door to private individuals instead of hiring drivers in order to get buses on the streets of the stadium to serve the passenger. Since 2014, there has been an open competition for workers drivers and craftsmen. You said you'd get eight hundred. Where is he? We have 2018 and you have done nothing, rather than hire technical staff to repair buses to produce transportation work and drivers. Instead of supplying spare parts of all types for all buses, today we have buses to be inactivated. And I would like to ask you: what happened to the 30 million in the region for the purchase of ninety-two buses, of which twelve electrically? Where is this contest? At the same time, you have closed your train station in Greece by way of derogation from the law, which provided for its smooth and smooth relocation to neighbouring municipalities. Two hundred fifty buses have been withdrawn because of a lack of spare parts that could be most of them in circulation. In other words, with this amendment you are privatising public urban transport by putting CBS or private operators in a direct position to give public transport work. And that is not all, but you are also fined if the set routes of EUR 2 000 are not implemented and if you recur EUR 4 000. In other words, the U.S.S.A. is currently called upon to run twelve thousand daily routes. And because of a lack of drivers or spare parts there are ten thousand or ten thousand of them about five hundred. We have, that is, a difference of some two thousand routes for 2 000 euros, the fine is 4,000,000 per day that should pay a fine. How can this be done when in 2017 the Agency closed down with a deficit of 75 million? That is why we are calling for you to withdraw it, open up a dialogue with operators and self-government and workers, and find the best solution to this again than to privatise urban lines. In conclusion, I would like to say on this amendment to paragraph 6, where you are abolishing the participation of shareholders by a proxy. I would like you to sit here, because most of the shareholders in the CBELs are natural persons, which are also drivers. But I don't understand: the CCEEs are S.A., they're anonymous corporations. Do you abolish Law 2190? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u227	Mr Minister, you have not answered the questions we have raised and specifically the amendments which have not been discussed in committee at all. Of course, they were not called - much more - their representatives - who should - and they should know about the amendments and also tell their opinion to help us. In particular, I shall refer to the amendments. Amendment No 1764 concerns the urban transport of Athens and Thessaloniki. I also said in my first speech that you are completing the procedures for complete liberalisation in the urban transport of Athens and Thessaloniki. Already, you have started over the past few days by abolishing over twenty lines of the OSTH given to the KETEL of the area. You have brought the amendment to it at night. You also open a road to the urban transport of Athens and Thessaloniki for private partnerships with OSCE or with OSH. Enable and expand Law 3920/2011, Law of PASOK, which is why it also votes for your bill, enabling the OSCE group companies alone or through consortia with associations of individuals to be supervised, the implementation of transport traffic studies, the extension and operation of road networks, as well as fixed transport. So you're giving them everything! We are therefore voting against it. It's the liberation that expands and deepens. For the amendment of a general number 1767, and the problems in AEN Kalymnos and the patches proposed, we have said so. In fact, we have said so clearly, frankly, to the Kalymnos and the students, so that they do not have any illusions. Unfortunately - and we regret that - we have confirmed. Naval education is downgraded and is seen by both the curriculum and the great shortages of teachers with permanent and stable work and subject matter. There are very large gaps and lack of funding. How, then, can the AEN Kalymnos function? You do not have the courage to deal with the problem at its root and you come with carelessness and temporary solutions. We are going to say 'the present'. As far as the amendment from the Ministry of Shipping's general number 1768 is concerned, we are voting against it by pointing out that every demand from the shipowners is being made by the government to implement it quickly. It puts an automatic pilot, as the people say, but at risk of passenger and crew lives to increase the profit of armaments capital. And to tell you, the state keeps on doing and especially you, your government, who lived in the shipwreck of "Agia ZONI II" and the issues of certificates of navigation, has proved to be unrealistic. So measures had to be taken. You're not taking measures. It perpetuates what is being done, because at the heart of your attention is not the protection measures, but the profitability of armaments capital. With regard to the amendment by the Ministry of Infrastructure of a general number of 1772, we would like to see it broken into three separate articles, because we agree with the first two paragraphs, but not with the third regulation requiring the renewal of the seventy-four years driving licence and over, which we are voting against. We vote against it because, first of all, since 2016, the new system of examinations that you say you will bring is pending. You promised. Secondly, you are constantly giving extensions. And while the basic part of the examinations has not been solved, which is completely perforated - and everyone knows that, they all learn it well, when it comes to giving tests to give the diploma, you know it - instead of clearing it up, extend the exams to the upper seventy-four years, strengthening the "taxity" through the paradoxes. That's what you're doing. Thirdly, the fact that the Ministry of Infrastructure and the regional authorities, that is, all of them, have the examiners work outside working hours without pay, shows that you maintain and do the wrong eyes in all this sick situation, which also comes to serious complaints. Finally, with regard to this issue, UCLAF, the federation which has its members, the examiners of the transport directors of all regions, has repeatedly requested, in documents, a meeting with you and you have not accepted them once. We're asking you. Why such selective denials? We put forward the announcements and proposals from the federation, so that colleagues can be informed. If the articles are not broken in this amendment, we will vote 'the present'. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] We are voting in favour of one parliamentary amendment with a special number of 1762 and the ENPI Minister for Firefights. However, do not cut beneficiaries because of the limitation of 27 September. We are voting against the ministerial amendment with a special number of 1769. And I hope that by the vote you will not bring anyone else. I say this because the parliamentary amendment, with a special number of 1773, which you accepted, was tabled at 14.30 p.m. It is delayed and dangerous because you are extending to CBELs and tour buses to build fuel tanks in accommodation, parking and bus maintenance areas. To withdraw the amendment. It's dangerous!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Mr. Katsikis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u229	I did not intend, Mr President, to take the floor. I'd just like to say something for a minute. Of course I'm not one of the congressors. I fully met in all parts of the bill and in the committees and during my report to plenary. And, of course, I have finally expressed the fact that the country has a legal framework, through which it will for the first time be founded and operate water routes. This had been frozen in the past. Today, both in terms of investment and the development of the country's economic situation are many, as are, of course, multiple benefits for the passenger. But for urban transport, we have also been positive. What I would like to say, in conclusion, is that the criticisms are good, wherever they come from. Of course it would be better - and it would prove the fruitful political, opposition process and the development of a good and beneficial parliamentary dialogue - these criticisms would be accompanied by constructive proposals. The Minister accepted in their overwhelming majority all those positive remarks. It has improved as far as it could during the parliamentary debate the legislative framework which will shortly be passed and it will be the law of the state. And I believe that here we are all here to see the functioning of all these provisions of the draft law - which will soon be the law of the state - so that - if further improvements are needed in the future - in a climate of consensus to make them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be brief, too. First I left - and I want it to be heard by the Stepma - an answer to what is going to be our vote and I want it to be heard. I think there has been a constructive dialogue both here in plenary and in committees. It is about a draft law, which should have been implemented, but it is good to do so. Because as we have said and as I mentioned in my speech, it has a positive mark at the end of the day. In other words, some investments will come, there will be growth in tourism, we will be able to have access to some so-called barren lines, where access is very difficult. There will certainly be some jobs in these investments. So at the end of the day we want to help this effort and for our part to say 'yes' in principle and on the whole. We will have disagreements on some articles and certainly on some amendments. However, let's go to the part of the amendments. It is good for us to have amendments within the committees. It is good, since it comes from debate and from dialogue that the amendments, legislative improvements, should come. It is unacceptable, however, that two hours should come before the draft law is passed, such as the regulation of the issues relating to the Athens and Thessaloniki CCEEs. They certainly have to go through consultation, they certainly have to go through dialogue, they certainly have to go through committees. And we can't support that. We are not discussing the amendment on the exemption from HNVO for fire-fighting areas. We agree on that, and we will support it. As far as Amendment No 1764, we said 'no'. As for Amendment No 1762, we will say 'no', because bringing back some people who have been removed through judicial decisions do not know whether it is right. Because with the judicial decisions that have been removed, we do not know what the procedure is, so we cannot support the amendment at this time. As far as Parliament's amendment is concerned, we shall be saying 'at present' for the reasons I have explained and for my position. We consider it a little difficult and dangerous - it relates to specifications - whether they can accommodate fuel, parking and so on. We say'residents', because we are waiting for a more thorough study on this. For Amendment No 1767, to cover the post, we will very clearly agree, since the state budget is not charged. We're not talking about an appointment, but we're talking about a secondment. So we too agree on that, and we welcome it. Because we're usually the ones we tell you to take advantage of what's there, "fat" from the public, so you can take advantage of these people and bring them in. Either way, it's a replacement, so we agree on it. For Amendment No 1768, for classification societies, we will say'represent' because, on the one hand, there is a risk, and on the other hand, it will give a year for those who need to make any improvements and any changes that this small extension of time you give so that they can make and make the changes. We continue with Amendment No 1769 on public procurement. We disagree with that logic. The amendment under number 1771 has not been accepted. However, you said that it belonged to Law 4530. As far as vehicles and prolongation are concerned, we will say'represents' about what colleagues have said. It's a bit dangerous for people aged seventy-four or more to get into this process. First of all, we want medical advice, we want all this to be covered from all sides. I'm going to have to close down with this. I may be a little sad, Minister, but you have given food for comments, saying in your position that we have come out of the memos. Is there really anyone here in the Chamber who really thinks we're actually out of the memos? Do you all believe in SYRIZA? No matter what, we're out of the memoirs, right? However, you are mocking people at the moment about pensions because you are negotiating with the lenders, with the people you have made the loan contracts. From the memorials we haven't come out. The word 'committee' has left and the euphoria has come the euphoric word to say'supervision'. We have very difficult days to spend. In fact, October has entered, we have three months before the end of the year, and the Greek pensioners do not know whether or not they will be cut off. In fact, there is no clear indication in the budget that pensions will be cut or not. So make up your mind. We will be able to prevent pensions from being cut, or will there be a postponement, an extension, a total abolition of this article, which you have voted on? However, we also have a hard memorial period of time, since you want to believe that we came out of the memorials, with surpluses until 2060, with a mortgage on all public property for ninety years and so on. It is good not to advertise in such heavy statements that we have come out of the memorials, because we have not come out of the memorials. We went out by name. I will also say something last, as far as the part of the memorials is concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u232	You've been talking for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u233	I'm not talking ten minutes. He hadn't tied up the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u234	He wrote seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u235	Seven of them had spoken before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u236	Finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u237	You won't tell me to finish. Mind your own business. If ever possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u238	Mr. Georgiadis, goodwill is intervention. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u239	She's not a We know if she's a good-for-nothing person. We know where it comes from. Anyway, I'm done. I have nothing more to say, Minister. However, be careful with the declarations on the exit of the memorials, because you may be happy, but at the end of the day the marble is paid by the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Psarianos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u241	Thank you very much, Mr President. Since the reason is for the memos, I would like to say that the others came out of the memos, not us. They got away and they won't pay us anymore. So we have to do what we've signed to do, keep up to antenna, and they've saved us from the memorials, pay us and support us and finance us. That's about memorials we've done now for the world. Fortunately, there were the memorials, because the country would have been completely submerged, unless it had become a people's democracy. These are about the memorials and about who came out and who stayed in the memorials and what the memorials are. The memorials are a gentlemen's deal, in fact, not occult and authors and exploiters, etc. This story - fairy tales fortunately ends here in terms of blah blah. All right, let's accept that the memos are over. But we have to do exactly what we have said with tougher supervision and surveillance, we cannot cut off or cut anything by ourselves, without these miserable blackmailers - lenders who drink our blood, etc., and who have made us buy their cars and all these fairy tales that we say between us in the world, in the cafes and from here and there. These fairy tales must end, such as the tale of the great conflict, and I will refer to what conflict. In no favoured democracy, and even European, there is not this ideoleptic, obsessive conflict of imperialism with imperial neoliberalism. There is a progressive, liberal policy, which lets the market do its job, you do not interfere, you do not interfere, you regulate, you distribute, you distribute and you supervise, you give the right to put airplanes into the state because under state supervision, they put companies with planes and waterplanes, they don't put them where they like, in our favoured state, civilized do any commercial activity, helping transport, communication, education, welfare, hospitals. We have private sector everywhere. But we don't have a private sector in universities. Why is that? Our teachers, our dean's, are leaving here, after they've foamed to not be private universities, and they go and get them fat from private universities, say Cyprus, for example, and so on. We don't like non-State universities. It doesn't have to be private to anyone, it can be a football team. In Turkey, for example, it is the University of Galata Sarai. He could have his university here, Panathinaikos, AEK, PAOK. The non-State universities have banned them by a robbery. Why? Because there is a close group of people who break down the universities, get paid, free education is extremely expensive, and it is not at all free, carefree, books, notes and at the same time the teachers who do their public duty, take it after the particulars and all that we take care of it and take care of it. We have instruction for all levels of education, only we no other country. They have several auxiliary institutes for languages, mainly, computers or for special knowledge and special technological research, but this thing we have private care centres everywhere, while our education is public and free, this other fairy tales go with tales of statism and neoliberalism. They can therefore cooperate in the public and private sectors. They can put waterplanes and build waterways and private people from the beginning to the end. If they don't do well, you take them and take them in, you confiscate them construction, property, anything. These are if you're a favoured regime. If you do a lavaper with them, it's a different story and don't make a lavaper. And if the Minister's gonna photographically give some hydropanaces a few licenses, 'cause he's gonna take a little Mississippi, let me tell him, I'm gonna have a couple of of my acquaintances, too. That's what we have to close, get it done. I would therefore ask that we all agree on this. On the draft law, we should be careful not to hit the areas that are special protection zones "NATURA" etc. Let's take care that not everyone can do it everywhere. We cannot, however, say to anyone who wants to invest, because privatization offers the state and the public as a whole. I would like to remind you that a private huge airline, one of the largest in the world, the owner who sucked the blood of the people in the stove, gave it to the state and the state broke it down on Olympic Airways. I want to remind you that to put a phone in Halandri twenty years ago, you paid black, white, and olive oil with 5,000 and 50,000 drachmas depending on the season and the drachmas. Was the state-owned OTE any better or the demilitarized OTE - COSMOTE? Has telecommunications been better in terms of state control or free management and free economy within the framework of care and supervision of the State? These recipes for public synergy and cooperation with the private sector, the "brothologist" PPP - some consider it to be very heavy bromokuveda - we need to see them along the way for all our activities whether they are for health or for welfare. I would now like to say two words about the amendments. We are voting for the whole bills and amendments which have been tabled to the committee and which have been discussed in the bill. We are not voting for an amendment, which comes for an unrelated ministry, for an irrelevant thing, in an irrelevant bill. We have said so, we have said so before, we will vote against them or vote 'at present'. An amendment that had been granted to the Onassis Foundation for health could not be voted on because it was in four articles of an amendment, that is, we could not vote separately while agreeing. I think that 1760 is similar, and that is why we are voting 'yes', since it comes on its own. For all the rest, we shall vote 'the present'. For 1767 and 1772, we will either vote 'no' or 'no', at the end of the day, in the vote. Because here, too, there's an article on electric cabs that we agree on and there's others we don't agree on. So, if it stays so uniform, we will vote 'PAON'. These are for the amendments. I would like to close, saying, that we need to get away from the greatness and the ideals of state-of-the-art state-of-the-art state-of-the-art neoliberalism. We must go to the state-of-the-art cooperation of the sectors, because the public prosperes - the public workers on the street side of the street and on the roads and on both sides and on the balances - do whatever they like, go whatever they want, get paid, and nobody minds, while the private has died. The whole Stadium is dead. And I say Stadium, because it's the dead street of Athens. Any private business, shops, etc. They are all closed down, while all public services and ministries, etc., either operate, provide services or do not offer, no one is involved. They are paid normally and no one can move them. Last example. I live in Byron. For eight months, the main conduit of HICP was broken. For eight months hundreds of thousands of cubic metres of water were spilled and no one was involved. Fifty phones we made didn't deal with anyone flooded all the basements in Byron on Mesology and Papandreou Street. The main conduit of HCDAP was broken. Nobody's bothered! If it were the main conduit of Mr Spirtzi or Mrs Manolakou's company, she would have solved the problem next Monday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u242	He's given it to the contractors.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, may I reply to my colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u245	Mr Minister, you can answer but Members have commented on the amendments and they will be expressed in their vote. Now explain to them whether they're right or wrong, I think you don't have to. But if you want two minutes, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u246	Yes, Mr. President, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u247	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Spirtzis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u248	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to clarify three points to Mr Jelloney. The first is for environmental protection, where water routes are established. Both Law 1650/1986, Article 19, applies to the protected areas of NATURA - we are ten times in favour of protecting regions and environmental legislation - and Article 10 of Law 4014/2011. So there's no question of any broad interpretation. Secondly, we have asked for clarification why we are abolishing the vote by means of a proxy at the CBC. Look, there are KETS that are diamonds, jewelry and give added value to local communities. There are CBELs, which are not the CBELs of the very large urban centres, such as Athens and Thessaloniki, which have rescued industrial heritage buildings, cultural heritage, which have anticipated stations, which respect the citizens who move there, which provide a quality work, which has reliable buses and others. And the others say to their shareholder - so think about how they treat the citizen - that if you don't come to vote for this administration by a proxy, if you don't try to put fuel in these offices, we exclude you from the dividends of the CBELs. There are, therefore, such complaints, if you wish, which are being investigated more logically in large CBELs - and I am not talking about Thessaloniki, so that there is no misunderstanding - that it is not possible to protect the CCT shareholders themselves from such 'greys', 'blacks' or other procedures. That is why we are forbidden, when it comes to electing management or auditing bodies, to do so by means of a proxy. It's simple. The third clarification is for Thessaloniki CBELs, Attica CBELs and forecasts made mainly for Thessaloniki. Look, we had the following at the Thessaloniki C.E.S. In 2003, the area of responsibility of the OSH was inflamed. In 2011, the area of responsibility of the OSTH was even more insulated. He grew up, went outside the Prefecture of Thessaloniki and along with it he decreased the work of the Thessaloniki CBELs and along with "inflamed" the loans of the OSTH, which are over 100 million and his debts. "were they inflated" the sums, the hundreds of millions of dollars given by the Greek State, and what was the exchange value, if you like, for this "inflammation" of the OSH and the reduction of the work of the CBELs? It was that they gave them shares, he says, of OSTH, and they were taken by subcontractors on some lines that had cut them off. For example, Mr Jelloney, let me tell you that in some settlements that were the responsibility of the Thessaloniki CBELs, they are currently employed - it is not the OSTH region, obviously the one that was before 2011-20 buses and fifty eight drivers. I do not know if you understand this as privatization or statization of this thing, or whether it is the logic of the private-public sector of OSH, who wanted to be maintained. But what's the truth there? The truth is that the amendment speeds up the establishment of the successor to the OSH, PHSH. So we're talking about public transport. There is no privatization. And, of course, the design that had to be planned for decades ago in Attica and Thessaloniki, so that we could have a single design for public urban transport, for CCT, for metro and suburban transport. We cannot have a uniform planning in public transport at the county level when so many instruments are involved. That's obvious. So there is no such body, to say what the route from Ororos is, to give concrete examples, not to go down to the center of Athens and to have more frequent routes to the suburban stations and more frequent suburban routes. The same is true in Thessaloniki. We may not have a design from Eastern Attica and from West Attica to make stops at suburban stations as well as the subway and go to the Area of Mars and charge the center. Not all lines in Thessaloniki can be from the center of Thessaloniki and there are no torso lines. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u249	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is adjourned: 'Themes of water, urban road transport and other provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of fifty-two articles, eight amendments, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you have to "rol" the touch screen to show each other the next four. Do not forget it, because then there will be articles that will not have been voted on. At the top right of the screen the number of articles remaining to be voted is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the whole. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u250	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u251	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u252	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Sea, urban transport and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u253	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u254	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-03-S1-commons.u255	With the consent of the House at 18.00 noon the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, October 4th, 2018 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions debate; b) legislative work: only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "I) Central Repository of Titles, II) Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2016/2258 and other provisions and III" Other provisions of the Ministry of Finance.
