ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 31-01-2018, the minutes of the Council of Ministers were ratified by the Bureau of the Council of Ministers on Wednesday, 31 January 2018 with regard to the vote on all draft laws:]] 1. ‘Preparation of the Amending Protocol to the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of San Marino providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in Council Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments and common declarations by the Contracting Parties and implementing provisions’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Amending Protocol to the Agreement between the European Community and the Principality of Liechtenstein providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in Council Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments and common declarations by the Contracting Parties and implementing provisions’. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday, February 2, 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 946/30-1-2018, a timely question from the Member of the Attica of the New Republic, George Vlachos, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: 'Elepsina's coastal front to the citizens of the city'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 922/24-1-2018, a topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The announcements of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to buy red loans from military officials with public money". 3. The Question No 955/30-1-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Removal of polluting facilities from the region of the Linopera of the Municipality of Malevizios". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 947/30-1-2018, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “The corrosion of saints and effects on coastal areas of Achaia”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 951/30-1-2018 by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Migration Policy, concerning the "relocation of anti-immigration immigrants into hospitality structures and the immediate evacuation of the two informal camps". 3. Under No 874/22-1-2018, a topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Financing from PPC S.A. the work of improving the street Pournaria - Kyri Bridge - Mygdalia, amounting to 500,000 euros." 4. The question by number 801/11-1-2018 of the Member of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Reimbursement of producers - Reconstruction Plan for the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ)". 5. The Question No 758/8-1-2018 by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: “Incorporation of sewerage networks and treatment of sewage treatment of Kontovasina, Levidi and Kallianios Arcadias”. 6. Under No 752/8-1-2018, a topical question by MP I Piraeus of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "What goals has our country caught in the battle for climate change?". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First we will discuss the eighth under number 916/23-1-2018 the second time question by the MP Iraklios of the Communist Party of Greece. Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Direct need for cleansing and flooding on the River Iofros and the streams of the area Xiropotamos - Agios Giannis Hostos - Maladon - Phoenikios of the Municipality of Heraklion". Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, the situation on the river Yophyros and the other streams of the western districts of Heraklion pose a serious risk to disasters by possible flooding phenomena in the winter, but also to the health and safety of the inhabitants and their children. There's dirt and stench. The reed forests are the fountains of rodents, mowings in the streams with sewage, bazaars, other construction materials and garbage contaminating the area and preventing the water flow, increasing the flooding risk and all of this next to houses, near schools, children’s stations and other public meeting places. Taking into account the dramatic events in Mandra Attica and the history of repeated destructive flooding phenomena from overflowing the river Yofus, mainly in the urban complex of the western regions of Heraklion, Xiropotamos, Aiannis Hostos, Maladus, Phoenix and the Municipality of Malevizios in the years 1994, 2004, 2014, 2015, with incalculable damage to homes, plant and animal capital, crafts, road networks and networks of OTE and PPC, which have never been compensated, while as a miracle we have not grieved human lives - it becomes imperative to take all necessary anti-military measures of Heraklion, vulnerable areas, with large anti-milling projects, delimitation of rivers, purification. There is also the big question of urban planning and the refusal in all previous years to plan the extension of the town plan to the western suburbs with what practical means for the rivers, sewers, hikings and others. There are therefore chronic serious responsibilities for this delay, before all the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. We believe that the same situation prevails today. Local and regional authorities are responsible for lack of planning for the people's homes, for the legal and arbitrary construction of large numbers of industrial units, a total lack of effective anti-military works, for subsidizing municipalities and regions, but also for transferring responsibility in connection with the study, maintenance and policing of water in the regions or municipalities without resources, without the staff of technical services and machinery adequacy. The result is often that the government is struggling the periphery or municipality for who has sole responsibility for the responsibilities of each service, so that it is paid for the permanent mortgages and anti-military planning. Minister, we ask you: First of all, what measures are the Government intending to take in the immediate and long term to clean up the Forest River and the rest of the area? It has to be finalised now who is responsible and the ambiguity of the law has to be clarified, perhaps by a legislative change that you could make. It's the simplest. You know that the Region of Crete had submitted a request to the Council of State to clarify this matter. The second question is whether and how the government intends to proceed to all the necessary flooding projects in the region, the brave financing of these in the context of an integrated anti-military plan for the entire town complex of Heraklion and Crete as a whole, of course. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Covenant. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Synthyriakis, on the occasion of the question about the western districts of Heraklion, we are facing a problem that is not only located in this region. We have also experienced it dramatically in the case of Mandra and in other areas, with less intensity with fewer happyly human losses. We are in front of a spatial chaos, a lasting lawlessness, a senseless way that has been built and designed by cities. The question is whether we will continue to move in this way, or will we slowly start changing the time of things. We must try to improve situations which have been consolidated for decades. Obviously this debate is in the most unfavourable terms because it is at a time when the state, its mechanisms, strict budgetary policies, also set certain limits. This does not mean, of course, that we should not make the best use of the resources we have. I would like to focus on some accounting data on the specific area that the Municipality of Heraklion has given us. First of all, for the period of March and December 2017, we were informed by the Civil Protection Office of the Municipality of Heraklion that in this period there was the supply of scaffolding machines, that Heraklion DESCRIPTION proceeded to clear barriers, that there was a good coordination and communication with the General Secretariat of Civil Protection and a thousand meters of the river bed in consultation with the Region. Furthermore, Heraklion JHA has proceeded with the construction of seventy-five thousand metres long in the municipality. There has now been a study and inclusion corresponding to the operational programme of Crete for 2014-2020, anti-milling projects amounting to EUR 2.180,000. Twelve thousand wells have been cleaned inside the city and the wider area of Heraklion. Is that enough? I guess not, because there's all we said before. I think that what we need to do right now is to try to unravel this box of disguised responsibilities that exist and are a cause for it so that either the first, the second or the state on its part does not take responsibility. The fact is that in any case, in order to deal with such situations, we need very good cooperation and coordination. It is all that we are studying, and I repeat the current institutional reform that we will be able to discuss in Parliament very shortly within the framework of the powers laid down for self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Synhronakis, please, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u6	Minister, what you have read from the document of the Municipality of Heraklion is a drop in the ocean in the face of the overall problem that the Municipality currently has. But you did not tell us what the region says about this. Because if you were to tell us what the region is saying, you will see that it is in a completely different direction from what the Municipality of Heraklion says and it turns out to be what the KKE says, that eventually when the buffalo pays it, the simple cosmakis pays it. That's exactly what's going on here. Look, we can't play with human lives and neither can we justify the flooding phenomena with the so-called restrictive policies of this period that we are going through nor with climate change, which in other cases you yourself have said. These responsibilities are time-consuming, they are government, they are policies, the previous ones, yours. The problems cannot be solved with semimeters and temporary patches. A thousand suffering in 2016 became cleansing on some parts of the rivers as well as limited freshwater cleansing, due to a lack of funding, of course, of the municipality and the region, and this is because the memories of the 2015 disaster were still fresh. In 2017, there were only a few few minimum cleanings, as the municipality and the region had no necessary resources. And they say that. The region and the Municipality of Heraklion say that they do not have the necessary resources, they do not have the necessary equipment. In 2018, it seems that it will be the same and worse, despite all the sloppy plans the region has made, since the design criterion is always the level of funding, i.e. the money they receive. In conclusion, the region has appealed to the Council of State against the Greek State to call for the annulment of decisions by the decentralised authority to carry out a counter-militarisation study without any necessary transfer of resources. I'll submit it to the Minutes. The Region of Crete and the Municipality of Heraklion are not exempted from the responsibilities, although they have appealed to the Council of State and have called on the question of competences, because they have agreed to take these responsibilities for the flooding projects, which have not only been accompanied by similar funding, but mainly because these projects - study, construction, funding - must be the sole responsibility of the State. The government is also using it as Pontius Pilate throws the ball elsewhere, as you did before by reading the document of the Municipality of Heraklion. What are you going to do? There is a very rich material to identify causes and measures to deal with, and this material exposes you, Minister. In fact, we have reminded you in a similar debate on the floods in Chania a few months ago, that there is a remarkable flood risk management plan for the aqueous part of Crete prepared by the Ministry of the Environment Special Secretariat, two hundred seventy-seven pages - which I will present in the minutes - with a technical study on the flooding characteristics of the area, the flood mechanism, the history and the causes of possible future flooding phenomena, the negative consequences that will have on the inhabitants. You know that. We informed you. Of course, you do not take these into account, because if this is done, it will mean cost, generous financing to the municipalities and regions, but also to the construction of the major projects that the region needs. Let me tell you this: there have been studies since 1999 that have been in the drawers and have been on: the Laduc dam, smaller stirring and restraining dams, the Asian dam and the Daphne dam, which has been helping both irrigation and water resuscitation to the Western districts' settlement area in the Xeropotamos region. You need to give these answers. So what? If you are willing with a timetable, necessary funding rather than crustaceans, to proceed to breath projects for the Xeropotamos areas, Agios Hostos, Maladon, Phoenix, which I analysed clearly and to stop this game of delegation of responsibilities when and when there, covering the ambiguities of Article 4 of Law 4071/2012. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-one students and students and four educational sessions since the 21st General School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u8	Mr Syntagakis, the simplest of all is to describe the situation and even to go over time to identify the issues. That's easy and safe to do. The difficult thing is to manage a situation that has been shaped over time, which, as at the very edge of your speech - and I imagine you mean it, you have not missed you - attributed to the previous governments, in the decades, in the decades of strong Greece, where the works were twice as, three times, five times what actually, they didn't get a place. So that's what I expect the representative of the Communist Party of Greece to say, not in general, to chop and make an equal-minded approach to the responsibility for how cities were built. Why don’t you tell me, then, that within the streams houses have been built for the last three years, the streams have been trampled down, the town plans have been illegal, and then the money has been legitimized. Mandra is very fresh, as you said. In 2003, there was the legalisation of the most illegal planning policy, where all these logistics there and the facilities were organized on the stream. Unfortunately, it is not the only example. They're everywhere. On the question of competences, we shall be disagreeing here. We want self-government with responsibilities, with constitutional autonomy, with responsibilities. You don't want it. You want a central state. You have another perception of self-government in the patterns of regimes that have collapsed for their own reasons, we are not discussing this. Actually, you don't have a self-government perception. The laws, however, through their ambiguity, mainly make them responsible - and so they must be the local authorities for managing the ravages and rivers. Is there a duplication right now? There is, I told you, because in fact if you look at Law No 4171/2012, but also before Kallikratis, Law No 4258/2010, you will find that for mountain areas the municipalities are responsible, for plain areas are the regions and how they are defined and what happens in those cases where a municipality has mountain and plain areas. There are these ambiguities. And that's why I'm telling you that one of the systematic, painful jobs that the Interior Ministry is currently doing is to be able to unravel this field of competence. We'd like proposals up there. So there, on whatever self-government experience your space has, come to see the field of responsibility, responsibilities of the first degree, of the second degree and of the state, but the state is primarily responsible for the large projects of national scope. We want self-government which has powers which we can and must support. Can we, after 2010, rely on the extent to which we want self-government resources and staff? First you've heard me say we can't. It is the consequences of an equalisation memorial policy, for which everyone - and I do not now want to talk about it - has their own reading, approach and plan to get away from it. As far as we are concerned, to speak more specifically, about the Municipality of Heraklion 1,781,970 took from the CFP to implement such projects and other similar projects in 2017 and so much will take in 2018, in addition to the extraordinary funding of the 230,000 euros requested by the municipality for the treatment of extraordinary natural disasters. For the Aqueous Apartment of Crete HS13, which is what we are discussing at the moment, a flood management plan is being drawn up and emergency and risk management plan is being drawn up by the RIS Special Secretariat for Water. It is in consultation and is expected within the first three months on the basis of the information I have from the Ministry of the Environment that, at last, we will have a basis to deal with and not to smuggle right and left, not to assign "local" projects, but to have a holistic design for each area so that we can slowly change this landscape, which is obviously at the expense of cities, poses dangers, but it is also well known how we have reached this point. That's all and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. We will proceed to the first report - question No 2002/12-12-2017 of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP for Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "An unjustified delay in the start of the new National Museum of Contemporary Art (EMST)". The question by Mr Kaklamanis will be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Lydia Conniordos. Please, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u10	Minister, the question I wish to discuss today concerns the whole of the Athenians, who see their city, the capital of the country - even though there are delays in the expansion of the National Gallery - to have remained, in fact, without any state area of contemporary art. This is, in my view, an unjustified delay in starting the normal operation of the Museum of Contemporary Art, as has been pointed out with recent publications in the daily press. In particular, the National Museum of Contemporary Art will operate, as we all know, in its full development, in the former Fix brewery site on Syngrou Avenue, the reconstruction of which was completed in February 2014. However, although the building after and its last formation is a modern exhibition area with all the necessary infrastructure to host all culturally and not only, operating in its premises, it has still not officially opened up with its entire permanent collection and to date hosts several periodical exhibitions. The latest information - which I expect you to confirm or disprove - states that the museum's music and museum's study has been guaranteed from the past, but has still not been carried out, while the 'popularity' of the 3 million euro sponsorship by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation is unknown for the museum's engineering equipment. Today, almost three years after the construction of the building was completed, there is still no clear and binding timetable for the full operation of the museum and of all its parts. Consequently, this ornament for the city of Athens remains essentially inactive, depriving the Greek citizens of an area for which so much has been done so far and we expect to see what will happen when the puzzle is resolved. However, I have to say this, because I have visited it and been informed by the museum's people, despite the problems with successful actions of the museum's current administration, this museum is active abroad, having gathered more than a million eight hundred visitors and extracted very positive criticisms. So, on the basis of the above, I ask you: When is the museum going to work officially? I mean all of it. There is a timetable for action until its official inauguration and what is that? Secondly, what is the budget for the work that is lacking to be carried out in order to start the full operation of the museum? Has it been guaranteed funding? Has the sponsorship of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation been absorbed for the museum's engineering equipment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. The Minister for Culture and Sports, Mr Lydia Konordos, has the floor for her protagonist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kaklamani, you refer to the EMS issue as a major issue of cultural, political and I can only agree with you. That is why the year that passed us, we made every effort on the part of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, so that the museum can be officially inaugurated as quickly as possible. The problems for the non-operation of the museum were as follows: there was no approved rules of procedure. There was no approved final Musaic application study. Today, however, I am pleased to tell you that they have been fulfilled and so the donation of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation, corresponding to 3 million euros can be activated. The "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation, known as it prerequisites the proper functioning of the museum, both in terms of staff and in terms of operating expenses. I should like to mention at this point that the donation of the Foundation will allow for the implementation of the museum study on the establishment of the permanent collection in the second, third and fourth floors of the building, and for the further necessary equipment on computerization, in audiovisual, facilities and part of the machinery. All of this is necessary for the full start of the museum. With the activation of this donation, this building will be fully operational. We can therefore safely say that we have ensured the following very important data so that in 2019 we are all present at the EMT inauguration: The publication, by Presidential Decree, of the internal rules of operation of the museum. The Rules of Procedure were adopted by a Presidential Decree adopted on 1-8-2017. It is a result of long-term processing and cooperation with the competent services of the Ministries of Culture and Sport, Administrative Reconstruction and Finance and it is a very important step to serve the museum through ASEP processes, as it is the main prerequisite. With regard to the staffing of the museum, then, we have already achieved an increase in the existing regular staff of the eighteen people of the EMFF, in the process of extracts, with five more people. A further nineteen employees transferred by ministerial decision from the DPO to empty organic positions of administrative, guard, cleaners, of the EMST were added. Furthermore, in its 44-2017 decision, the recruitment of 14 individuals of different specialties with a fixed-term private-law relationship was approved. With these actions, the Ministry has ensured a sufficient number of staff of fifty-six to make it possible to function properly and uninterruptedly throughout the building. Completion of the implementation studies of the museum study, the complete file of the study, as well as the report of the Committee for the Receipt and Supervision of the studies of the EMF established, was approved on 8-11-2017 by decision of the Board and submitted to the Directorate for Studies and Exercise of Museums and Cultural Buildings. Directly, our Directorate made comments and corrections to re-submit and approve the studies at the level of a final implementation study. Consequently, we have already joined the resolution of the two main problems that I mentioned, which prevented the official functioning of our National Museum, and this is not a simple and easy matter. So we are ready for the immediate activation of the donation so that the museum can proceed to the next stage. In this way, staff have been assured and the musical study will be approved, which will be carried out in the next period. As far as the budget is concerned, I shall refer to my denunciation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Kaklamani, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u14	Minister, I first heard, unless it was by mistake, that in 2019 we will see the opening of the museum. You know, actually it's February 1, 2018. If you answer for me in 2019 and for example in November 2019, we are talking about after a year and a half. I would therefore like you to be clearer. Since everything you have said to me is true, I would like to tell the Greek delegation that the rules of procedure, as you said, have been adopted. It's too late, of course. Because, as usual in Greece - and this is a timeless evil - to cooperate over one service I don't know how long it takes. If they now have the misfortune to cooperate with two and three agencies, let them go. I would, however, like you to be more specific about the timetable in your dentistry. Within 2019 what does it mean? At the end of 2019? By this time of 2019? So, we're talking about after a year? And why go back a year if everything you say has happened? Because I, too, did an investigation, and I would like to say that you did indeed, indeed, say the truth, completed the study of the implementation of the museum study. It was a second thorn. In a way, I hope the Niarchos Foundation works better than the Greek public and in a relatively short time it has released the very important donation that you said. For example, the full study dossier and the relevant report of the Receipt and Supervisory Committee of the Museum Studies was adopted on 28 November 2017. On November 29, he was submitted to the Department of Studies and Works of Museums and Cultural Buildings of your Ministry. So far I do not know - because I have tabled the question for ten or fifteen days - whether it has happened. Until then, however, there was no approval of the service. He's still escaping this while you've got it in the Ministry. So there you must press on. We've been talking about the Niarchus Foundation. I heard about the staff. It's like that. You're telling the truth. But be careful when it comes to the money you're giving. You're going to tell me - you said - in dentistry. Because the information I have is that the grant given by the Ministry of Culture by increasing staff - which is necessary to operate the museum to a full extent - is not enough to pay the operating expenses of the people who will work there. Because, you know that Niarch's 3 million is gold, it's wonderful. But it'll be over sometime. There must therefore be a programming from now on about how this museum is being subsidised to operate. And I'm not talking about payroll, but about his activities. I hope - I do not hope, I am sure - that it will also have some revenue. I don't think the entrance should be free. I'm sitting on it, Minister. I'm not saying the extremities of Italy, which to get in to see a column asks you for 15 euros. In any case, however, an income must be ensured by the ticket entered. I would therefore like you to be as specific as you can for the timeframe. And secondly, you tell me about the grant, because at the moment there may be no particular problem, but in one year's time, since the new workers have gone, there will be, because the present is not enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. The Minister has the floor for her denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u16	Mr Kaklamani, on the budget side, in addition to 3 million, it will of course be ensured that the EMFF operates already with the grants from the 2015-2017 Public Investment Programme and with the increase in 2017 of the ordinary budget with exceptional grants. The museum is currently in the best economic situation in recent years. In detail, the Public Investment Programme for the period 2015-2017 received EUR 4.5 million. The TAA's regular grant for 2017 was EUR 400,000. The exceptional grant was around 303,000 euros and again the exceptional grant in 2017 was another 300,000 euros and another exceptional grant in 2017 was 800,000 euros. The total is 6291,000 euros. Also according to the approved technical bulletin for the work of action and the activities of the National Museum of Contemporary Art ahead of its relocation, it was approved - exactly what I told you at the beginning - for the three years 2015-2017 the sum of 4.5 million. We are next to the museum, Mr. Kaklamanis, on every step of it and every difficulty it encounters. This building, unfortunately, was designed without the musical study being carried out. It's a mistake. And right now we have a huge building with serious energy loss problems. And of course, we do not know the speed with which the museum study will be implemented and how quickly the valuable donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation can be used. So we want you to be sure that we will try to open the museum in the shortest possible time. We cannot, however, announce the exact timetables, because it depends on the work and on the speed with which they will be implemented. I also wanted to tell you that we do not leave any body - as we have done with the other supervised bodies, such as the Palace of Northern Greece, such as the State - without strengthening it in time so that its functions are smooth and can be programmed. In addition, although it has not been officially opened, the EMS has done very serious activities, does social work, does educational programs, of course it was the main building for "Documenta", did the exhibitions on cooperation for "China Year" and prepares for other things in order to stay active and a live pole in the city.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u17	Is the problem of the museum administration solved, Minister? I know they had some problems there.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u18	No, there's no problem. The museum's operation is smooth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u19	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much. We move to the fifth under No 924/26-1-2018 topical question for the first cycle of MP of the Greek Communist Party Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "To ensure the copyright of authors and the working rights of GGI workers". Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we are currently bringing to Parliament the issue of GDPI, the Anonymous Intellectual Property Company, which, as we all know, is sinking into the swamp of its economic scandals. It is in a particularly bad position, since users and, of course, large users, including ERT, have ceased to pay the fees due for copyright. This results in the reduction of the company's receipts and, of course, leads to the reduction of the rights paid to authors and other beneficiaries and, at the same time, to the loss of wages for GGI workers. You know, as we all know, that there is a great risk of them finally losing their wages and the creators, but also the workers in GDPI, and I am talking about the wages due. In fact, from what we are all watching, according to press releases, we have several outputs from GNI with what this means to this company. The truth is that the Ministry of Culture and you have proceeded and advertised the placement of the temporary commissioner, you have appointed a temporary commissioner to GDPI. But, as far as we know, since then - and several months have passed - no solution has been found, we have not yet come out of the deadlock. It could be said that this government movement proved ineffective and perhaps added new problems. Let us say here that this was probably natural and expected from the moment that the regime of the hierarchy is still in place within this company with the big shareholders and the Commissioner, but also because of the limited powers you have given the temporary Commissioner from the outset. In any case what I would like to ask you, Minister, and we want to hear it, is what measures you intend to take now, so that, on the one hand, the copyright of authors and, of course, the working rights of workers in GDP are guaranteed, which are at risk of being found without wages and of being fired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much Mr. Delis. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. The current situation in GDPI is solely responsible for its administration, which, as is apparent from the report on the management of the company's auditing of Ernst and Young accountants, has made irregularities and abuses in all previous years, as has also been reported recently by the workers themselves following their meeting with the owners. The appointment of the temporary commissioner, as well as the recent renewal of its mandate, was intended to illustrate the financial situation of the Agency and to ensure the recovery and return to the beneficiaries of the amounts collected on their behalf. One cannot deny, however, that the appointment of the Commissioner also contributed to the smooth continuation of the work of the GNI workers in it as well. The measure, which you say has been advertised, has not been unreasonablely advertised, but it is your misinterpretation that it has been advertised by circles of large users. It was advertised by the majority of authors and de facto it was a necessary move to restructure the landscape of copyright. The reduction of the company's receipts is, therefore, linked to the mismanagement of GNI and not to the appointment of the Commissioner, who held nails and teeth with her team the purchase of copyright and managed to make a partial distribution in December 2017, which I can assure you that it would not have been carried out by the company's administration. From the last six months of the Temporary Commissioner to the Ministry of Culture, it appears that unreasonable administrative costs to related persons and associates have been set aside and, at the same time, revenues have increased in relation to the previous months of their appointment. Furthermore, the complaints made by members of GDPI, foreignly important repertoires and almost all publishers, are at the moment making it difficult to collect rights, which is one of the provisional Commissioner's responsibilities. The represented GDPI repertoire is shrinking as a result of the termination of the contracts and, in particular, of large foreign collective management organisations, which have owed them money since 2014. In order to reduce receipts, there is a development of the problem, so that users refuse to pay. Moreover, since the company since the beginning of October 2017 has no tax information, it cannot collect from public entities. Despite this deplorable situation, for the distribution of the second half of 2017, it was possible to pay about EUR 5,500,000 to the beneficiaries, because they were released from the Greek State and made the money available in the corporate accounts unreasonable, which was very important, following the promotion by the government and the vote on the relevant provision by the Parliament with an amendment from the Ministry of Culture. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'm sorry about the time issue. In addition, I would like to stress that the temporary Commissioner for all the things that have been done successfully has put pressure on the company's administration to carry out this distribution. The Ministry of Culture has close cooperation and regular information and closely monitor the case so that it takes appropriate measures in good time. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. However, in the question we have asked you, Minister, about what you will do to ensure that the rights of authors and workers are guaranteed today, you have not given an answer. I hope you give it to your dentistry. You've blamed all the responsibilities, but all of them, in the administration of GNI. Only, you know, of course, and there are those responsibilities, and they are heavy on this administration, but your government, Minister, has responsibilities, and for a long time it has been aware of the problem, is simply monitoring and not taking the measures it needs to take to ensure the work of workers, the wages of workers - and I will tell you in what situation they are - and, of course, the intellectual rights of authors. You told us about the temporary commissioner that he was put there to reflect the financial situation of the company and to ensure the smooth continuation of work. But you must be aware that the employees in this company have to be paid for more than a month, the representatives of this company have to be paid for more than two months, and of course, we are not talking about the representatives who - their alas - are not! - if they get involved in court disputes, then they'll have to put their own hand in the pocket for their costs. In any case, what we are seeing and what we would like to hear from you, Minister, is what measures in particular you will take for these a hundred workers to ensure their work. What measures will you take to ensure the rights of creators. And in the summer we had the debate on the bill, we told you that if you really wanted to give a solution to this company by discussing the bill of collective management, you could, after you were rejoicing at this GNI, grant it to the authors themselves, so that they could manage it, of course, by guaranteeing their rights and the continuation of the work of the workers. You haven't done that and you haven't answered what we told you. From there on, I would like to remind you - and I said it in protology, I will say it again - that what you actually did with the bill was to open up the market for copyright. We have a difference here, too. We're talking about copyright, you're talking about intellectual property. It's not exactly the same. There are already companies imported from the rest of Europe, which, of course, are slowly taking the customer account of GDP. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That's the situation. This is the result of your own policy, and you should see it and in any case correct it. In conclusion, I would like to say that in any case what workers must do in this company, but also the creators, is that they must step up their struggle and their claims, because with your policy they are taking courage, and today's management of the company and the big shareholders are burdening the company's suffering and its tragic situation with the workers themselves. That's where we've arrived. We expect to hear your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Delis. The Minister has the floor for three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. The measure of the appointment of the temporary Commissioner proved to be effective in practice, because in short all GNI pathogens were recorded. It is a phenomenon of decades that no one dared to touch. This is the first time the whole picture of GDPI has come to light. This is a very large part of the landscape and without the Commissioner's presence that would not have taken place. It is not only at the economic level, but also at the level of its real functioning in relation to its corporate purpose, which is to manage, collect and distribute copyright. A characteristic example is that issues and findings relating to criminal further evaluation are also being investigated. As you can see, without the measure all this would not have been recorded. Furthermore, without the interim Commissioner, the management of the company was not in any case, as it strongly resisted, to separate bank accounts, i.e. accounts of beneficiaries intended solely for distribution, and of corporate accounts submitted in accordance with the law. It should be stressed that this provision is a milestone in copyright, since for the first time the authors' money was shielded and was unnecessarily characterized, which was the achievement of this government. You should understand that the December '17 distribution would not have taken place, as was done, because the authors' money would have been taken by Eurobonk, who had already seized the corporate accounts. Distribution of the amount released against the rights of the second half was a conscious choice to be given instead of the payment of the rights of the first half on social grounds, so that those who have the lowest incomes of up to EUR 2 000 are completely eliminated. And all the remaining beneficiaries, Greek publishers and foreign collective management organisations, receive a large proportion of their remaining rights equally and fairly. Any other option would result in low-wage creators not receiving a single euro. The government, fully aware of both the financial situation of the company, which is resilient and of its general non-transparent operation, sees as one-way the need to directly regulate the intellectual property market and very soon it is working on and will present solutions so that appropriate and appropriate legislative measures, which everyone here in Parliament can vote on, can ensure the constitutionally guaranteed right to intellectual property. In other words, we are finally going to do the time-consuming demand of intellectual creators to all governments for the resolution of space, for democracy, transparency, objectivity and rationality. Profit anonymity companies private interests in collective management of copyright have no place on the market, much more than it has been proved that they do not guarantee intellectual creators, promote culture and provide no commercial security to users. Our aim, therefore, is to create a healthy collective management organisation, a non-profit making, a real home of intellectual creators in modern European and international standards and not another profitable company of the few at the expense of many. In this way, you can be sure that everyone will be assured, and those workers who are currently having the problems we have mentioned, and the real creators, as well as the users of musical works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Minister. We will now discuss the seventh under No 925/26-1-2018 topical question by the First Deputy of the Union of Central Banks Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Contracted Salesmen of the Fund for Archaeological Resources". Mr Saridis, you have the floor for two minutes to begin with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the increase in tourist traffic in Greece in recent years has made it a pleasant result to increase the visibility of archaeological sites and museums and further effect of all this has been a significant increase in revenue. A significant proportion of the increase in revenue for the public is derived or should come from the museums and archaeological sites. Unfortunately, however, the problems of subscribing these sites, as well as the poor renewal of the contracts of people working in them, have led to the ineffective use of these sales. All this, together with the fact that in the next period, as you know, workers' contracts at the Archaeological Resources Fund, that is, in less than a month, are causing some problems. The same phenomenon of course concerns my city, Thessaloniki, and that is why this question is being asked, because we have five salesmen who will stay in the air. On the basis of the above, Minister, I ask you: Do you intend to proceed with the conclusion of contracts of eighteen months with the sellers of the EPA in the form of workers in the field of cleanliness, in accordance with Articles 4506/2017, Articles 8 to 10, in order to meet the constant and constant needs of our country's sales and museums? Do you plan to proceed with a small extension of existing contracts by analogous application of Article 9 of the above law, so that there is no problem with sales until the notice for the replacement of these posts? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Madam Minister, you have the floor to begin with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Saridis, Law 4506/2017, issued on 12-12-2017 by the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction with the assistance of the Ministry of Culture, aims at addressing the inability of ministries and public bodies to meet all urgent needs in the field of cleanliness, in order to avoid the immediate risk of deterioration of hygiene in workplaces, which has arisen from the constraints on recruitment to public permanent staff or staff with another employment relationship. It is a transparent, worthwhile process under the control of the AACC. This is an exceptional transitional provision, with specific conditions laid down by the legislator and provides for a different procedure than that required for the other recruitments to the public, i.e. the signature of an Interministerial Decision, CSR. On the basis of this recent signed NSAs, bodies and Ministries may issue notices through APAs to recruit fixed-term cleaning staff of up to eighteen months’ duration. In the next few days, there is also a need for such appropriations to be made to the Ministry's budget. This procedure does not concern contract sellers of the Archaeological Resources Fund and cannot also be applied proportionally to other categories of public staff. However, the Ministry, within the context of the general government policy, will examine - and examine - this category of staff, together with the overall issue of the regulation of temporary staff, as it does with other categories of workers. Finally, Article 9 of the Act provides for the possibility of renewal of the contracts which expired on 31 December, only after a notice has been issued in accordance with the procedure described until 31 January 2018. However, the Ministry of Culture is peculiar that the notices are issued decentralised by each taxi separately. Therefore, if the relevant notices were not issued, the staff who would have been working since 1 January 2018 and could not have been paid since then. We therefore preferred to ensure that the joint ministerial decision is signed very promptly and that the procedure for the recruitment of cleanliness staff under eighteen-month contracts proceed quickly. We are working in this direction. We estimate that the whole process will be completed by mid-March. This ensures that positions are taken for eighteen months instead of eight and five months of contracts which have been in force so far, without being excluded as well. The rest of it will be in my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I will be brief. Madam Minister, if I understood correctly, the conventions of people who expire on 25 February will not be renewed. That's what I figured out on my side. We must wait for the recruitment process, which will in fact have expired by the end of March. These people, who are currently having a job and are being paid, as you said, will be unemployed from February 25th onwards, Minister? Will they be shared in relation to other people in the new contract procedure, which you said would be eighteen months? I want to know that. What is the future of these people so that they can continue with dignity, Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Saridis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u35	In the next call, the people who worked before will be mobilized and given a priority over the rest. I would like to stress that the Ministry of Culture, as part of the effort to ensure proper protection of all sites, is making a very great effort. He's been able to recruit four hundred people with five-month contracts. This is done. It has sent to the IASC for publication a notice on two hundred positions of permanent archbishops. It completes the effort to re-enter four hundred individuals in various specialities who have positive judicial decisions. And that's in the end. I mention these in order to see our great interest in offering jobs and meeting the needs of the sites. In May, it will also issue a new notice for recruitment of staff with seven months' contracts, as was the case last year. Therefore, our effort is to offer the best possible in the present conditions, both to workers and to the smooth functioning of archaeological sites and museums.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks is organised and operated, forty-seven students and students and school attendants from the 4th and 3rd General High School of Thevas and from the 1st General High School of Ano Liosias. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Subsequently, Mr Olga Kefaloyannis will be discussed with number 945/30-1-2018, the second time question of the new Republic of Athens.Olga Kefaloyannis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The problems remain in the Fund for Archaeological Resources and Simplifications (STAP) - Continuous impairment of public revenues due to the administrative lack and lack of political will of the Ministry of Culture and Sports (YPA)". Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, today you have finally decided to come to the House and answer us, because in the previous period you have shone in your absence. Of course, what I note is that you are again announcing the same things. I refer to the answers you gave to Mr Nikita Kaklamani a moment ago on the question of the operation of EMS. These are exactly the same things you said to me on May 5, 2017, i.e. vagueness and wishing. So I am staying on the subject on which we have asked you today the timely question, which concerns the problem of the Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund, which is due to the way you have been operating in the previous period, and which unfortunately has led to a deterioration in the country's cultural stock. The problems, Minister, are not solved with intentions and words. In August 2017 you carved members of the administration of the EFF, who were posted by your own government. You said then that with the previous administration there was cooperation and support, but there was not the same approach to resolving the issues. Since then, although we have tabled a timely question, we have received no answer about what really happened. So, can you explain to us - even with a delay of five months - what exactly has happened? What were you on, and what were you arguing about? What were the different approaches for? Let me mention that the EDF has not yet passed its new establishment plan. Have you decided on the points where you disagreed with the establishment plan? Because from what we know, there were two points. What's happened? What are you waiting for and at what stage is the organogram? By not moving forward, it is not institutionalised and no Director-General is placed in the Agency, so that the Board of Directors has taken over the entire executive. This loose end, Minister, when are you going to solve it? As far as the necessary human resources are concerned, have you acted through IASA, even with eight-month contracts, to meet basic needs, such as those of the accounting and operation of digital infrastructures? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I should also like to say that the previous government had prepared proposals that you should have taken advantage of. And I wonder: How many years does it take to you and previous Ministers for Culture of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to discover them? How do you use them? And I also wonder how to use these proposals is to announce them to us by press conferences after a disgrace for months? A major issue is also the subject of the integrated electronic ticket system. You have again announced that it will be done. I just want to remind you that Mr. Xydakis in February 2015 had said that it would take place in June 2015. Soon we reach about the fourth June. Is this loss of substantial revenue for the national economy possible? Tell us what you have done to prevent the collapse of revenue? What have you done with the vendors, which are actually empty products? Do you realise the negative consequences of the malfunctioning of the EBRD at the expense of our country's tourist image, which is growing even more from closed museums and archaeological sites? This is a special big issue, on which we will come back to a next timely question. Tell us with specific and measurable data, what you've done with all the above.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much Mrs Kefaliannis. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u39	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Kefaliannis, I think you did not follow or read out the press conference that was held last week at the Rente's workshops in the Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund. It should be noted that I personally saw the important work done there by very dedicated people, who for many years have continued this tradition and art, I could say. The EBRD has a new worthy board with a dynamic president and is ready to face the challenges of the future and to reveal and erase the bad texts of the past. Also, you haven't been given the right numbers. What's the revenue collapse you're talking about? The Fund had a total revenue of 113 million in 2017, while in 2014 and 2015 it closed to 66 million. To analyze the tickets: 2013 was 43 million, 2014 and 2015 was 50 million, 2016 was 80 million, i.e. there was an increase of 63% and in 2017 it was 96 million. And the argument that is often heard that this increase is due only to an increase in the ticket, is not correct. It is not because the stabilisation of the country since 2015, like the high level of our archaeological sites and our museums, have brought about an increase in tourism and visitability. But the check on tickets has also been intensified and it is our concern. I want you to note that the increase in revenue and traffic in 2017 was at the same levels, i.e. 17%, which was not the case before. Increasing the revenues from sales, with 2015 closing to EUR 4 million, while in 2013 and 2014 it was at EUR 2 million, that is, half. We cannot say that we are covered by the image of the sales. However, apart from the natives, we also want to enrich them with products that have an identity from every place and museum. Of the refreshments you mentioned, unfortunately, like the other assets managed by the EDF, we do not have an increase in revenue. They've been steady. However, this - and I stress this - is due to the problematic contracts which have been drawn up for many years, long before 2015, and which not only help to make the most efficient use of the premises, but also bring the fund to the courts for years. It is not easy to get rid of these ghosts which, unfortunately, the government has not created. And these leases are problematic, because mists are not rationalized - while visitability is growing - and they differ by space, without criteria, without specifications and without specific studies. The duration of these contracts is also unclear and the contractors remain in illegal extensions for years. Also, products sold to them are not always qualitative and this reduces our image to the guests. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] At the same time, we have forty-five closed refreshments for over four years. For example, for the refreshment of the Archaeological Museum of Patras, a contract had been signed five times in previous years and all times the competition had become barren. Now there is a further development plan for the SSP, structured and recorded with specific timetables. Report vacant sales. The sales are already enriched with new products and we plan stockpiles with local products, with identity. It will soon work e-shop which will allow the visitor to order online the products of the ITD and will become a brand name state, high quality and great artistic value, which we support. As far as the refreshments are concerned, the next competition will soon come out with specifications that really meet the market. It does not mean that there is no one in northern Greece who can respond, as emerged from the last competition, to the terms of which I personally disagreed. This will not be repeated. The refreshments will have contractors, who respectfully will also contribute to the best possible experience of the visitor. You are referring to a lack of reorganization. Today we have excellent cooperation with the new Board of Directors of the EIF. We have set strategic objectives together and the development vision, as this has already been reflected in the roadmap presented at the press conference. I leave for the end the online ticket, which you as government in 2008 received and paid from the 3rd Community Support Framework and the NOP in liquidation no longer since 2011 that you have never put into operation. I think I can go on with my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much to the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Workery of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the "Ionian School". Guys, we welcome you to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for your dentology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u41	Madam Minister, if anyone listened to you, you would not have imagined that you were in the position of Minister of Culture for 15 months, because once again you repeat - as in all other cases - generally wishful words, without beginning, middle and end. For the matter of increasing the revenues from tickets, I would like to say that you have first doubled the prices for tickets. There's an increased tourist movement. The problem, I would say, which you will have to answer is why the free movement of goods has increased so much. We're talking about the online ticket. You told us about the press conference. Here in front I have the results and publications that came out after this press conference, as well as what was written in the press that the online ticket is ready again. That is what we repeat, that in fact at the press conference you gave a few days ago, once again you made an announcement, as has been done by your Government's Culture Ministers for three years. Madam Minister, you are staying in general, in vague complaints, and you will never proceed to specific actions. All you do is eventually create constantly small or large crises in the area of culture. You could, you know, have built on the positive that you found. But, because of ideology and obsession, you are demolishing work that has taken a great deal of trouble, not only by political leaderships, but also by officials to do so. Because I have listened carefully to you telling us again the theoretical analyses and to repeat what you said at the press conference and the supposed strategy, I would like to ask you what is your vision of the important organization of the Ministry called the "Archaeological Spaces and Simplifications Fund"? What do you intend to do, how and when? You have to commit yourself to specific proposals and a detailed timetable in Parliament today. You admitted that the ticket revenue axis - and I get exactly your own words from the interview - "it remains vulnerable due to problems that have been identified, recorded and communicated, as early as 2016, and remains at a zero rate of its resolution". So what has your Government and you done to solve the matter? Do you have measurable targets? Are we insisting on telling us where you agreed and where you disagreed with the previous administration, the one that you were concerned about and why? Do you have a plan? Why are you delaying - we repeat this all the time - the implementation of the integrated electronic ticket system? What is the case with what was announced at the press conference? Or do you think that in five months from now will you tell us that in the next few months the online ticket will be applied again? And I want you to be clearer and more specific at this point. What is the case with the first phase of the programme, namely the establishment of an integrated information system for the management of operational resources and an integrated system for the management of tickets and access to archaeological sites and museums sponsored by the National Bank? What exactly is the case with the joint sponsorship of the National Bank and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation? Respond to how the money that the EDF pays to the Ministry was distributed. What codes did they go to? What is the level of the electronic status of the EDF? Can you explain to us what your phrase means from the press conference on 17-1-2018 'at present there is a significant weakness in the operation of our sales'? We already know that sales are virtually empty. What is the case with the production and disposal of high aesthetic and exclusive aesthetics for the sales of archaeological sites and for the exhibitions abroad? Why have you not proceeded with the online publication platform delivered in 2015 and financed by the ESRB? What stage are the competitions for the provision of quality services in the archaeological refreshments of the sites and museums? It is inconceivable that visitors cannot have the necessary services as the 2017 competition notices were barren. You should also tell us if you have taken care of the relaunching and strengthening of the publishing of drivers who are usually in shortage, as well as of scientific publications. I insist that you tell us how you vision the operation of the EDF, which you should have subsequently formulated and the necessary discussions with the workers' institutions. Madam Minister, trying to justify this is the simple thing. Trying to shift responsibility into the past is also very convenient, but at the same time it is outdated and predictable. The difficult, responsible and essential thing is what, unfortunately, you have the responsibility to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kefaliannis. Please, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u43	Mrs. Kefaliannis, I'd like to freshen your memory. At the main entrance of the archaeological site of the Acropolis, as in twelve other museums and archaeological sites of the country, a ticket and visitor access control system was installed in 2008. The scheme was not put into service after its receipt from the OIP. In November 2011 and after the OPCW had been wound up, the EFF was informed that a audit will be carried out by the competent managing authority on both the financial and the physical object of the project. In the face of the risk of overall disbursement of the project, the EFF has apparently put the system into operation in the thirteen areas. I happened to be in Epidaurus, Mrs. Kefaliannis, and we were all laughing at what we saw happening in front of us. By the end of 2014, the operation of the system cost about 250,000 more than the initial subsidy with continuous tourist damage due to obsolete equipment, low availability system, loss of sales data. In addition, due to an incorrect initial design, the system was installed only at the central entrance of the acropolis archaeological site and not at both side entrances, so that a single check of the validity of the tickets is not possible. That is what you have done, and now you blame us who have already started, with an important donation, installation and real operation of the project. We've taken practical action. And it's not an announcement. The new Management Board of the EDF decided on 21 November and with absolute priority from the appointment of the new Chair and members on 8 November 2017, to appoint two representatives, in order to enable the project monitoring committee to be set up on 6 December 2017. Since then, with a frequency of two and three times a week, there have been meetings of working groups, self-consciousness and needs mappings. The other day, a ten-member team from the EFF with the chairman and members of the board of directors, the contractor, the "COSMOTE", the donor advisers and executives of the Ministry of Culture and Sport were found in the Heraklion Museum and Knossos and recorded the commonly accepted proposals. Next week the same step will be found in Messini. And of course, the Acropolis is already ahead of us. All this will be incorporated in the implementation study to be completed on 26 February, according to the commonly agreed analytical plan. You are accused of errors, omissions, while there is a criminal abandonment of the EDF in the years of your own government. I would also like to reply to the questions you raised: The free movement of goods is the same as in France, after an investigation we have done. The Agency of the EDF is at its final stage, after a thorough consultation. There was a vertical disagreement with the previous president on several issues relating to the Agency, which had to be corrected. At the moment, after the public consultation that has taken place, we are in the process of being completed. There were disagreements on the issue of decentralisation. There were disagreements as to who is managing and who produces cultural policy, which was envisaged by the former body proposed. There was also a serious issue of inefficiency, which forced us to change the president, not the administration, not the members. Members have decided themselves to resign. With regard to what you mentioned about the help of the shops, what I was saying is that there is no help for the sellers. The sellers are on their own. That is why we want to ensure the presence of technological equipment, such as cameras, computers, POS, so that they can do better. Also, what we are visioning for the EFF is that there should be a decentralisation, that each archaeological site should enable local society to highlight healthy business forces. We want there to be the craftsmen who, with the certification of the EDF, will provide products with identity to both the sellers and the refreshments, which have not been the case in the past, speed up the procedures of expropriation, decentralisation, so that everything does not happen from the centre and that the resources of the EDF are distributed fairly throughout the territory. We are very optimistic because this year is scheduled very well and so we will be able to meet even greater needs in the archaeological sites and museums, as well as the needs of the Ministry of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Minister. The sixth question under number 950/30-1-2018, first-round question from the H' Vice-President of the Parliament and MEP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the burial monument of Amphipolis, is not discussed because at the same time the honourable Member presides today's plenary session. The seventh question, number 875/22-1-2018, topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The project to attract visitors to Lake Lada, amounting to EUR 1,289,618 and the project to improve the Purnaria - Kyriou - Mygdalia, of EUR 500,000, expected to be announced", will not be discussed due to lack of responsibility. The Department responsible is the Ministry of Environment and Energy. In view of the obstruction of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Evangelos Apostleos, as it is in the report ‘AGROTICA’, the following topical questions will not be discussed: The first under number 928/29-1-2018, the first question of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Enhancement of water resources and the implementation of the works of conservatives in Heraklion Prefecture". The third, with number 943/30-1-2018, a top-circuit question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEGROGlou Vassiliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "True damage to Crete in herbal capital, public - municipal and private infrastructure, etc. - Direct compensation for producers and support for the affected - state of emergency". The fifth question, number 956/30-1-2018, topical question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Damage caused by agricultural crops in various areas of Crete due to extreme weather'. The sixth question under number 927/26-1-2018 from the second time of the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “Kalamis olives are imported and “baptized” as PDO Kalamata olives. Also, the second, with number 944/30-1-2018, a top-stage question of the new Republic MP Lassithi, Mr.Ioannis Plakkatakis, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Exemption of the construction of the Northern Road Axis of Crete (BOAK) in Lassithi Law", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Transport and Infrastructure Mr. Christos Spirtzis, due to a workload. The first time under number 929/29-1-2018, the second time question from the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Nicholas Igoumenidis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Direct resolution on the long-term unemployed”, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mrs.Urania Antonopoulou, for health reasons. Because of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Nicholas Toska, because of the commitments which have been made, the following two questions will not be discussed: The fourth under number 921/23-1-2018, a top-stage question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on "Questions about the case of agent based on P. Kammenos's revelations". And the second question with number 907/2-11-2017 from the circle of petitions and questions by MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Yafka of intercepts to the Old Faliro". As a result of the obstruction of the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs. Achtsioglou, due to unsuccessful obligations, the following two topical questions will not be discussed: The third, with number 930/29-1-2018, is a topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Union - Rural Cooperation of Trikala”. And the ninth under number 917/23-1-2018 topical question by M.Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Protection and Safety Measures for the Life and Health of Workers in the Shipbuilding Area". Finally, the fourth question under number 926/26-1-2018, the second time-limited question by MP of Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Do you trust Matthew Nimic as a special Ombudsman of the United Nations on the sceptic issue?", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr.Ioannis Amanatidis, due to a workload. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Wednesday 29 November 2017, Thursday 30 November 2017, Friday 1 December 2017 and Monday 4 December 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u45	The minutes of Wednesday 29 November 2017, Thursday 30 November 2017, Friday 1 December 2017 and Monday 4 December 2017 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u46	We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Structuring the Act of Completion of the National Bank Donation Convention in Greece in favour of the Greek State and the N.D. N.A. "The Evangelism - Ophthalmiatric Hall of Athens - Polyclical". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 25 January 2018 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u47	The House therefore agreed. I would ask colleagues to know that anyone who wishes to speak should be registered in the traditional way, because the system is still not working to get the order. Before giving the floor to the SYRIZA rapporteur, I have the honour of making the following announcements to this House. The Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Economics, Health and Administrative Reconstruction, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Economic and Health submitted a draft law on 31-1-2018: "Creation of a Convention on the Functioning of the Greek Institute of Pasteur". The Minister of Economy and Development, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Finance, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance, submitted on 31-1-2018 a draft law: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/104/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 concerning certain rules governing actions for damages under national law for infringements of the provisions of competition law of the Member States and of the European Union’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. Congressman Achaias Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos is requesting permission from a few days' absence. Specifically, it states: "Please, as you approve me, for the work of the Greek Parliament - plenary, for participation in committees and for consideration of health - from Monday, January 29th to Friday, for health reasons, since, due to a problem in vocal chords, I am going to be treated at the University General Hospital of Patras on Tuesday, January 30th. " Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u48	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The rapporteur for SYRIZA Mr Ioannis Dedes has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. It's too much for fifteen minutes. I think I'm good enough for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, this is a sanction. Aren't they five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u51	It's a bill, Mr. Comrade. Time is 15 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u52	This is a ratification of the act of completion of the donation contract of the National Bank of Greece in favour of the Greek State and of the Legal Person of Public Law General Hospital of Athens "The Evangelism - Ophthalmian Centre of Athens - Polyclical". Ladies and gentlemen, part of the government's objectives to support the social state are to improve public health provision by supporting the ESS and its structures. Mainly during this period the public hospitals’ finances were housed, having submitted balanced balance sheets and many of these hospitals with surpluses. Of course, the government's objective was good and well-off staffing with medical and nursing staff, with subsidiary doctors and permanent staff. With full development, therefore, the operation of primary care and health care through local health units will complete the National Health System. These efforts by the government are assisted by other bodies and institutions in this direction. The National Bank, therefore, as a body and institution, as well as the Latsis Foundation and other bodies, have contributed significantly with the deposit today of this draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Following the completion of the National Bank of Greece’s donation contract for the Greek State and the Athens General Hospital "The Evangelism". This contract concludes a project of about EUR 30 million for the construction of wings, surgery and the supply of medical equipment. On December 1, 2010, a donation contract was signed between the National Bank of Greece - it is mentioned as a donor - and the General Hospital "Evangelism" with which the donor undertook to build a new wing of modern surgery on a part of the hospital's land and offered the sum of EUR 30 million to this end. This contract was ratified by Article 78 of Law 3918/2011. The construction of the new operating ward has, therefore, been completed in the major, according to the donation contract. This draft law by the Ministry of Health comes to complete this donation, as in the interests of good management achieved, the sum of EUR 30 million has not been exhausted and it has produced an important budget of around EUR 3,151,700. In the first article, therefore, the act of completion of the donation contract, concerning the installation of medical devices and hospital equipment, as well as the formation of the pilot under the surgery for the need for accommodation of departments and educational centres at the General Hospital of Athens, "Announcement". In the following contract, the contracting parties and the signatories to the instrument of integration and the history of the donation contract are described first of all. Subsequently, the purchase of specific equipment for surgery such as a surgical bank, a headlamp, a central sterilisation furnace, a patient transport system etc. by budgeted amounts. It is then planned to build a blood section along with the spaces that will serve this section, in the western part of the pilot main entrance to the centreline of the pilot and a training centre on the eastern part of the pilot with a library and amphitheatre. There is also provision for the supply and installation of a modern coroner and recovery equipment for heart surgery and neurosurgery. So, as I said before, this will be allocated to cover the needs of the hospital. This amount is therefore EUR 3,151,700 including VAT. The second Article provides for their entry into force as from the publication in the Official Journal of the Government. As, ladies and gentlemen, these actions and donations are an important benefit to public hospitals, on the one hand, and, on the other, to better care for patients, we propose that you vote in favour of this convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr Dedes. I would ask the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs Papanatsiou, to propose the amendment to amend provisions on the scheme of granting a benefit for dangerous and unhealthy work, with a general number of 1461 and a specialist of 111. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Amendment No 1461, and Amendment No 111, amends paragraph 13 of Article 18 of L.4354/2015. We have a change in dates. Since 17 March 2018, which was in the previous provision, now the deadline is 14 March, for the fields to have been completed. And since May - instead of 17-5-2018 - the payment of allowances has ceased. That is what is happening, so that the committee can implement its work more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much to the Minister. Mr Iason Fotidas, rapporteur from the New Democracy, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, as we have said in committee - to repeat it today - we thank the donor, the National Bank of Greece, for a donation that is truly vital and can give breath to both the Hospital, the “Evangelism” and the general public health. A good management has indeed been carried out, with the result that an amount is left, which is now being completed and the contract is being completed. Of course, good management was not done by the government and the governments in general, but was done by the donor. Because under the donation contract, the donor himself took over the work, he chose the contractor, and he chose how to do the work. This for us is another example of how it can get better, faster and cheaper all things when the public works with the private sector. The only objection we have made to the committee - and we repeat it today - is that we do not know exactly how this whole new section will be manned, when the 'Advertising' is already squeezing in terms of nursery, medical, administrative and paramedical staff and not provided for in jobs that will maneuver this whole new section. In any case, we would like to thank the donor again. As far as the amendments are concerned, our parliamentary representative will also be looking into them. In our view, there should be no need, and there is no reason, to have amendments to an unrelated donation penalty such as today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Firela. Mr Constantine Barriotas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. As I said last time and agreed by the Deputy Minister present, the debate of today's agreement in this House as a bill, the ratification of a donation to a hospital and the fact that he arrives in the House, says a lot about the level of bureaucracy that is arousing the country and how little has been done all the previous years but also the three that have been done to combat incomprehensible bureaucracy. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] We were and we were in favour of decentralisation. We were and we're in favor of separating hospitals from the Ministry. I would call on the Minister at this level, to reflect on growing centralism, what problems are created and how much red tape and opacity increase. In essence, it is an agreement which has the approval and encouragement of all of us. I think we all think - and this is how it has been formulated in the previous committee at least - that is very important for this donation and for the support of a large hospital from the National Bank and we thank it for that. It's a positive action. For the amendments I will be waiting for some comments from the Minister when he takes the floor to support them. It is really very bad in this kind of debate about the quality of such a bill - if you like - and for the kind of amendments to be tabled at 9 o'clock last night, without any time, practically being discussed, investigated and consulted. The fact that the amendments have been tabled is that they extend the scope of the proposal to include: extensions and photographs. These two are. It is very interesting that the EMCDDA can be appointed retrospectively to the administration and military doctors. The name is missing, but it is obviously "photography". It's not bad to talk about. With regard to the extensions of time limits, it is a well-known problem, a time-consuming one. I would just like to hear for information reasons - it has no hint - because the competition for the reagents of molecular controls has been delayed. It is a good example of the previous competition, the one in place. Why has it been delayed and not made new and we are forced to extend the existing one? He's got an interesting one. There have been similar problems, I remind you, with the reagent contest for the urea tests in the same center a year and a half ago, which I think has been completed in the meantime. For the rest, I have nothing else to say. I repeat that it would be good, at least those amendments which are not urgent, which have no urgency, to be tabled in time so that they can be debated better. That's all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEVERIZELOS", fourteen students and students and six fellow teachers from the Special Professional Gymnasium - Elefsis. We welcome you to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mrs Aivatidis, has the floor. How long do you want, Mr. Aivatidis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u60	As long as it's set in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u61	As long as you do. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Madam President. With this draft law, the government wants the Act to conclude the donation contract for the Greek State and the General Hospital of Athens "The Evangelism - Ophthalmiastirio of Athens - Polyclical". This integration act was signed on 17 July 2017 and one of the signatories was the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Paulakis. This donation originally amounted to EUR 30 million due to sound management by the National Bank of Greece has led to a further reserve that can be used. Indeed, on the basis of the references made to this contract, it will have a significant contribution to the health sector in the Athens General Hospital, the largest nursing institution in the country, the "Advertising". It concerns medical and hospital equipment, in a blood section of the hospital, in an educational centre that includes amphitheatre and library, in a modern coroner installation and in a supply and installation of recovery equipment for cardio-surgery. Indeed, this contract is found, I would say, positive elements and the Golden Dawn could be positive. We had reservations in committee, Madam President. Today we tell you that we will vote 'Saints'. We will not vote in favour of this draft law in principle for a very specific reason. This is about the political fundamentalist behaviour of the health ministers, who are stubbornly and undoubtedly refusing to answer questions put in writing by Members of the Golden Dawn concerning health issues. I would like to inform the House and the Ministers present that, although they maintain that this is a manifestation of a 'democratic' sensitivity, they are aligned with the political behaviour of Mr Treasury in his capacity as President of the New Democracy, PASOK and DIMAR. On the contrary, they are differentiated by other colleagues, ex-Greek Minister of Justice, Mr Stavros Kontonis, who - and this is important, because the issue I shall be referring to is related to the health sector - is very much opposed to the Golden Dawn - that is all-important - and has said a lyninist. We respect him. What for? Because it is entering the process of democratic dialogue and not just that. In December, therefore, in a specific draft law, and indeed in an article on an amendment of the Narcotics Act, Mr Stavros Kontonis, the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, with his legislative improvement, fully adopted the view expressed by the Golden Dawn. This was the case, Minister, on the subject of industrial cannabis. Mr Kontonis had proposed a ceiling of 0.8% for the industrial cannabis, and after the intervention of the hypothetical, Mr Kontonis immediately adopted our view as well as the limit instead of 0.8% went to 0.3%. It has, of course, made a legislative improvement, adopting a view of the Golden Dawn - scientifically speaking - in honor of it. You are not in harmony with Mr. Contonis but with Mr. Teddy. On the other hand, something else very important is that yesterday the President-in-Office, George Borente, also adopted a proposal which was very important to the Golden Dawn, which, I would say, was embarrassed by many governmental factors either in birth or later. What happened? The special speaker and competitor Georgios Germenis and our parliamentary representative Christos Papapas recommended that a minute silence be observed for the night heroes of the Imian people. Mr. George Bored made the request acceptable. Maybe he displeased some governmental factors. But I think that he did his self-evident duty as Greek and President-in-Office at the same time. You, Ministers, continue with passion, stick to this attitude. But Mr. Paulakis took a small step forward. In the committee, even without mentioning that it was our intervention, it made a useful clarification of the consultancy services, which will be redundant with EUR 114,400, as the annex to this draft law states. I call on you, Mr Ministers, not to exhaust your democratic - in or out of introductory terms - sensitivity to the Golden Dawn, because we represent a part of the Greek people. In Sfakia, the Golden Dawn, for example, received 7.21%. In the next election it will receive more than 10%, Mr Polakis. It's good to respect at least your neighbors. On the other hand, it is very important that we, as Golden Dawn, have made the designations and behaviors of the New Democracy - I do not want to mention the faces, you will understand - who have used zoology terms against you, heavy characterizations - do not want to repeat them, the Chamber does not allow them to do so - and they have stressed that they will shut you down in prison too, Mr Polakis. They mean it. But we know, because we are taking part in the Committee of Inquiry and I have had the honour of replacing the competitor Ilias Kassidiari in two of the meetings, that clearly in CEDEFOP - and we agree with you, Mr Polakis - it became 'a party'. And because you have brought an amendment relating to the EMCDDA - I do not know if you are aware of this particular issue as it concerns the past - I do not know if you know what the EVC was about in New Democracy's governance. The service, let's say, at the EMCDDA was about half or two thirds of today's lower basic salary. Unbelievable! We are talking about smuggling public money and it is a matter that should be dealt with thoroughly. Of course, today at the EMCDDA, these amounts have come on a lower basis than normal, perhaps there should be some increase...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u63	The amount has gone to 35,000 euros a month. Not just lower, then, but one-third.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u64	Yes, sir. There have certainly been anti-corruption steps undeniably in this area. That is why, and because we believe that there is good evidence of the fragmentation of public money, we are also very fair and we are looking closely at the issues of the Committee of Inquiry into Health. I shall disagree with the view expressed by the New Democracy earlier that the amendments introduced are irrelevant to the draft law. In our opinion, they are absolutely relevant and have had quite a few positive elements. We reserve the vote on whether we will vote for it. However, it seems that we are not going to vote against any of them. Finally, I should like to make two points. The first is that we welcome the decision of the Standing Holy Synod of the Greek Church and the Macariottos Archbishop to participate on Sunday in the rally for the Greekity of Macedonia. We would also like to denounce that the name which is allegedly chosen as Greece's proposal, Gorna Macedonia, is double-crossing and double-crossing. Firstly, because only the use of the term "Macedonia" by the Greek word "Macedonia" is of an astronomical character and "Gorna" in Slavica means either "Upper" or "mountain" Macedonia. In Bulgarian means "Upper", in Serbian, Russian and Skopje means "Orea". So the government must be particularly careful, because it is in danger of writing a black page in the history of the place, apart from saying that it has made submission to international loan sharks and has become a memorandum. The people are facing financial difficulties, but in this case they will, legally and democratically, react to this effort of nationalism. We believe that such an effort is being made, even by negligence. That is why we call on all Greeks, who feel Greek, to be present at Sunday's rally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u65	Mr Georgios Lambroulis, special speaker of the JRC, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Madam President. We believe that the proposal for the specific projects outlined in the contract and for which the amount there is to be used is necessary in order to modernise and improve the services provided and the working conditions of the scientific and other staff of the ‘Advertising’ Hospital and we are well placed. But we want to put the following points, as we have also put it in committee. Firstly, there is a problem of serious subsidization of the hospital, so that some of the new and modern surgical halls do not work. From the surgical beds of the first phase of the contract are thirteen due to lack of staff, while the eight second stage rooms do not have any equipment. Only the spaces have been built and are ready. So what's going to happen here? Will the hospital expect a donation for the supply of the equipment necessary for the operation of these operating rooms? This means that it remains the problem of not taking advantage of the possibilities for the hospital to meet the needs of patients for surgery. However, even the full development of all surgical beds requires a corresponding reinforcement of the staffing of all sections involved in postoperative management of patients, whether for the unit or for intensive care units or for the surgical hospitals, etc. In our view, it is the government's responsibility to solve these problems by recruiting permanent full-time and full-time staff and by ensuring the necessary medical equipment. We consider these issues to be essential, because many times and over the years all the governments are attempting to obscure behind any whistle of the inaugurations which are made more and more today that the government, in the context of the absolute respect of the anti-grass budgetary targets, is cutting off the state funding of the public health system. The second point concerns the fact of the development and staffing of public health units. We believe that it cannot depend on charity, volunteering and individual supply. They are a people's right, they must be the sole responsibility of the state, they must be fully financed by the state budget, they must be guaranteed the staff of permanent full-time and full-time staff, but also the necessary equipment, and that is precisely what is necessary, not only from the nature of these services and structures in health in this regard, but also from the fact that the workers and other folk are the exclusive producers of wealth even within the conditions of the capitalist economic crisis, but they are prevented from taking advantage of it in order to meet their current needs and health, rehabilitation and so on. Therefore, the development, equipment and staffing of public health units cannot depend on whether or not the various banking, business groups have a very small part of their enormous profitability, which comes from the exploitation of our people, from the exploitation of our working people. It is, for example, a form of oxymomile, on the one hand banks squeeze the people out either by coercion in high-purpose borrowings or by confiscations by poor people and, on the other, by being presented as philanthropists, who are interested in his health. At the same time, however, these donations, offers, etc. have as an incentive and are naturally exploited in modern conditions and under corporate social responsibility, with a deeper aim of ideological influence on workers, in order to promote a distorted perception of the so-called human face of business groups, the cultivation of a concept of human, sensitive and socially responsible side of capitalist enterprises and of course of the capitalist system. It is precisely by stepping on the ground of the serious problems of the people's families that the human face of the system, a system of deep exploitation, is projected to reconcile the majority of our people with the idea that the better the profitability of the banks, businessmen, shipowners, the more they will spare any crumbs for donations, benefits, etc. It is therefore an attempt to curb class exploitation, while contributing to the integration and compromise of workers. On the other hand, at political level, it contributes to limiting government deficits, eradicating extreme social contradictions and ensuring to a certain extent political stability. As far as the amendments are concerned, Madam President, we will also expect the ministers to be placed and, if necessary, there will be time available, I believe, for the rapporteurs to make some speeches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u68	Madam President, may I have the floor for twenty seconds on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u69	Please, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u70	Madam President, I see that the procedure for the rapporteurs is generally over. We're going too fast. A request to the Ministers of State or Government: After the end of the debate by the rapporteurs, they should be placed on the amendments, to tell us which of the Members of Parliament are acceptable, to start the ministers tabled, so that we too can put forward the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u71	We only have one speaker, we will speak and we will continue as we have said. Here I will inform the House of a letter signed by the Prime Minister on 'Governmental Change'. "Mr. President, We have the honour to beg as you tell the House that by the 8/29-1-2018 Presidential Decree, published in FEK 13/29-1-2018 (Title I), the resignation submitted by Constantine Zouraris of George from the position of Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs was accepted and was relieved of his duties."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u72	Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Madam President. I want to make a comment. Yesterday it became one - let's say - a feast for the hundred years of establishment of the Ministry of Health. I have the opinion, without monologue the truth, that it is not about a party, it is about all the parties and, in one way or another, I believe that they have put a little bit of stone. And it really made me a bad impression - I do not want to raise the tone - which, while all former ministers were called, all - I have no reason to question what the Minister, Mr Xanthos, said - some did not come and did not give the presence. Their right, they're judged. I say this because I believe that in such matters the state must keep going. Handmade example is what we are talking about now. 30 million did not happen to this government. I was in "Evangelism" and the National Bank was offered. For Christ's sake! And I'm glad to see that there's a consensus, a modesty. They've been given a good job because a lot of vital problems are really solved in a hospital, and we may need more. But I cannot resist the temptation to say something. I'm expecting a good word sometimes to hear it. What do I mean? Recently OXFAM, a non-governmental organisation, based on a Swiss 'Credit Suisse' survey, says: The assets of only eight of its major wealth correspond to 3.6 poorer billion on the planet. No one hears it and doesn't believe it, wonders what this thing is, it can't be. But it's true. We're not talking about injustice here, we're talking about perversion of reality. And it's a tangible proof of where badly understood entrepreneurship, extreme neoliberalism leads. Does it have anything to do with this? It's for me. I served in the “Evangelism” for many years, thirty-five. It was a dream of life that was done already. A few days ago the commander of the "Evangelism" signed two hundred and eighty individual cleanliness contracts, which will cost 1 million less a year for the public sector and double the wages of the employees. It is a small but tangible example that no one can ignore. The word'social state', which is about health, education, welfare that so much has compressed from extreme neoliberalism, where on the altar of the gains of 'land fire' it is a small stone and I would expect some people to welcome it. I could say a few more examples. But this is handcuffed. In fact, this commander is being taken to court. He'll win the courts because people go forward, he won't go back. I want to say and end for the welfare state, because this is what this is about, that the public hospital of "Evangelism" currently accepts 30% more than the incidents we had fifteen years ago when the mushrooms flew the private hospitals. I have nothing on the private initiative, but because I was a newspaper coordinator and all the selected incidents of glamorous hospitals were sent to the "Evangelism", to the "Slaves" of the "Evangelism", to doctors with huge experience. He had paid a fortune to go to the glamorous hospital. I have nothing, I honestly tell you, on the private initiative, but she must also have rules. All the difficult incidents at three o'clock in the “Evangelism”. It is therefore an example that the social state must be resurrected. A large part of Greek citizens, one third, is below the limits of poverty. I never triumphed. The macro-economy may go well, but everyday life still wants work. This is a debt and an obligation for all of us in this Chamber. I don't think anyone here can argue. So welcome the 30 million of the National Bank. I have nothing to say. You're not going to say anything opposite. However, we must all put our backs on the way to re-establishing the social state in the country. They're not like poor people! I conclude with one example for Sweden. I may also be obsessed, but I want to remind you that both Erlager and Uluf Palme made this country accessible to the whole planet. They had rules on the market and a social reference point for everyone. Thirty years after Palme's death, today when I'm talking to you, the serious businessmen from all over the world want to invest in this country. No corruption, no complications, no tax evasion, no mediator dictatorships. One minister lost her place for 100 euros her husband did. That's what I think we can all fight together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u74	Mr Fokas has the floor from the Centron Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we congratulate the National Bank for its great contribution to the Greek public sector, in the ΝΝΝΑ "Evangelism - Ophthalmian Ophthalmium of Athens - Polyclical". The EUR 30 million donation undoubtedly gave a huge breath to the hospital, which used medical and hospital equipment. The construction of a new wing of modern surgery, as well as a platform for the need to house departments and educational centres, is some of the projects that renewed and upgraded the hospital space. As many times as we want to beautify public hospitals, we all know very well that they have been in a difficult situation because of the over seven years of economic crisis that we are experiencing. Because of shortages of basic equipment most, if not all, patients suffer due to these deficiencies. I want to thank the National Bank once again. We're positive about the ratification of the national donation. Parliament's representative will be placed on the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, too. Mr. Danellis from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Madam President. As we said in the debate in committee, we are voting in favour of the ratification of the donation of the National Bank of Greece to the General Hospital of Athens "Evangelism". Just to note that we may have to look again at the legal framework governing donations of this kind, because even seven years before this donation is completed, it shows that there are issues of bureaucracy that we have to deal with. Finally, I want to say a word about the Macedonian on the occasion of reporting from Golden Dawn at Sunday's rally. I would like to address the unreasonable patriots whose ignorance and misinformation will lead to the rally tomorrow. I would remind you and point out the invitation of the Golden Dawn, which is, of course, the forces that are working on parliamentaryism and rubbing their hands, because the political system, unfortunately, and society, of course, does not have the temptation and does not have the willingness to make a reflection: what we have gained and what we have lost, what is the national interest in dealing with a matter for which we, Greece, should be the ones who should be the ones who should be. We need to think calmly and logically about what we have earned and what we have lost these twenty-seven years that we want to face a problem as a problem. And I must point out that we are in danger once again - and this time finally - the defeat of a policy to be translated into real national defeat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. As I said before, I will give the floor to the only speaker who has been written, Mr Papadopoulos from SYRIZA, and then to Mr Polakis for the amendments. Here, Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u79	The ratification of the donation contract, ladies and gentlemen, gives us a good opportunity, firstly, to thank the donor bank. Because we think that in all the efforts made by the Ministry of Health, the Government, so that we can have a qualitative improvement in infrastructure, equipment, the National Health System and donations. Second, let's make a reference to other donations. I think it is very good, now that we are discussing the usefulness of the private sector in some of the efforts made by the Public Investment Programme, by the NSRF, to be able to talk about the usefulness and the donation made by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and to the Evangelism - not to forget this - but also donations made by the Onassis Foundation, by Mrs Vardinoyannis. And don't forget. Our great effort, I think, must be parallel to the national contribution we have from our own resources, but also from the savings of resources and from the good management of resources, that we can see a European health system, which feels that all these issues of infrastructure, equipment, staffing, health systems throughout Europe are also a matter of the case of the United Europe. I would like to point out that yesterday we were given an opportunity to discuss the long-term course of the Ministry of Health and the contribution of too many and important interventions that were made over time, so that we can hope that the National Health System will have its quality integration with the efforts we are making, with the reforms that we are making, with the changes that we are making. I think it is also my responsibility to say that the absence of both the New Democracy and the Change Movement is a serious shortage. Because we do not forget either the efforts of Spiros Doxiadis or other ministers who have contributed from their homes, as well as the efforts made by PASOK at the start of the efforts to create the National Health System, the effort of the Friday, which was already set to be the speaker, the memorable Gentiles and other Ministers. Even Andreas Loverdes, who is here yesterday, referred to his contribution to the creation of the EEA, which we do not forget, and what else we need to do to complete the work of the EEA on all these issues in which it is called upon to intervene. I think that the amendments that are being tabled here - both the two parliamentary amendments we are tabling and the ministerial ones - give us the possibility of additional interventions that improve the functioning of the health system. With regard to the first amendment you know that there are crisises of ESS doctors who had not been completed until the resolution of No.4498/2017 or who were late, and the notice was approved before the start of the law. What adds is to regulate that if he does not serve as a manager at the hospital of the same specialty or in the healthcare region, then use a manager's coordinator from another sanitary region to deal with all these crises. The second amendment concerns the question that Law 4498/2017 stated that following the adoption of a statement of positions of ERS doctors, the Ministry of Health had to start the electronic submission of applications within 15 days. Now the regulation allows for better preparation of this electronic submission of applications within a time limit which will be explicitly defined at the same time as the decision to approve the contract notice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. Mr. Paulakis has the floor. You can speak eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Today we dominate the bill for the completion of the donation contract of the National Bank of Greece in favour of the Greek State and the ΝΝΝΑ "Evangelism - Ophthalmian Ophthalmian University of Athens - Polyclical". The title must of course be added to 'other provisions' once a number of ministerial and parliamentary amendments have been tabled, which we will be accepting. The parties' rapporteurs have been mentioned and I think there is a consistent support for the approval of the ratification of the convention signed in 2010. It was about 30 million euros and it was completed in two phases. In the first phase, lasting between May 2013 and November 2014, we have about 17.5 million euros with 4.5 million equipment. And the second phase, between June 2015 and September 2016, cost some 9.4 million euros with equipment. Fifteen surgical rooms, recovery, sterilization and central engineering were constructed in the first phase. In the second phase, the haemodynamic section, the recovery of cardiac surgery and neurosurgery episodes and eight other surgical rooms. Let me say here that fourteen surgical rooms are already in operation since November 2014, it's not in the air. Also, because they have had enough good and good management of EUR 3 million, we are now signing this supplementary contract, which legalises the necessary equipment and work that has been done in the first two stages of the construction for precursors and equipment requested, so that the hospital can continue to operate in the construction phase on the basis of the movement between departments and equipment so that they can join the new building. There are - and are described by the Act of Integration - a series of very serious interventions to do with the blood section, which will be built on the ground floor of the new building, the formation of the new wing on the main axis of the pillar with auxiliary public spaces, the educational centre in the eastern part with a library and an amphitheatre, and, of course, the provision and installation of a second wreath to meet the emergency needs of the hospital, which will be installed in an already formed area of the third level of the new wing. I would also like our side to thank the National Bank. However, I agree with the colleagues' remarks on the terrible genuine bureaucracy, the dreadful procedure, which we now have with donations from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which is under way the signing of a comprehensive memorandum of cooperation describing the five major interventions, etc. Unfortunately, we have inherited an institutional framework, which I finally explain in two ways, because we have to draw some conclusions and we have to codecision on it, because this terrible bureaucracy has political and economic function. It is no coincidence that in the name of legality, in the name of the terrible control of the steps and the permits to be issued, two things are finally happening. This also concerns public works and other projects. This is a different type of management. It's clear. It's not common that I have to have a budget of thirty, and I have to go through three, and I'm throwing it back to improve it. You remember in the past too many things that started. I remember a result of our own struggles in the State of Nice, which started with a budget - I do not remember exactly the numbers, I remember the three-fold final cost, which was then in drachmas - some million drachmas and finally three-fold. That's very common. This thing, this complexity of legislation and bureaucracy has a political function. One was that it must reach the top, the ministers, the politicians, 'I have control, I do it'. And the second is that this thing reproduced the mad economy. In each step, in each desk, in each drawer could remain a work for six months, one year until a signature was entered by some employees. That was the oil that fell into the machine. That's the story. That's what it needs to be blown up. I call it that. You can't talk about productive reconstruction in the country and want, like, to take a stone over there, twenty-three approvals. This thing can't be done. It wants another political decision as a whole of the political system, but that means breaking into the previous social contract and the political system and economic operation, otherwise it is not. And that's where we're going. Also, to answer two - three things. I said the other day, Mr Lambroulis, that there are two hundred and thirty people on duty already in the Evangelism and another seventy-four out of the 7K, who have obtained the results. Also, there are eighteen other doctors in a contract notice, and there are also the ICM notice and there is the TLP notice. As I have said many times recently, more than 12 thousand people have so far been on duty in the National Health System since October 2015 and are on the way to another six and a half thousand people. That's the kind of injection the ESS hasn't seen since it was made! We didn't cover all the needs, and we won't only cover them with them. But we are going out of the memorials and will renegotiate a number of other things in relation to how to cover them. But this kind of injection hasn't seen since then. I think you understand very well where we'd be if that didn't happen. I would also like to inform you what will happen, at last, after a long time, in the next week and here it is, Mr Dannelly, again, the same thing as we said: Remember that last year we announced that the Attica Region was giving EUR 40 million of its own resources for aid with serious equipment to all hospitals in the Attica region. A year almost at war to get to the proclamation next week. A year! We legislated twice so that this could be done. It went through the preventive contractual control of the Electoral Congress - and strangely it did not delay much there, which is usually long delayed - and then a terrible war began in relation to what the standards would be like. Because you know, like I make them, it's what I want to get. I could write a book because I watched it very closely and closely. I am telling you, however, that I have attended it on a weekly basis with two major health experts, with corresponding officials from the Attica region. At the time of the announcement, we were able to bring it forward next week. Because it fell "the sarah, the mama and the bad coup d'état" not to take this, to describe something else. Where their change has been played, it was not possible for the public health system to be able to produce the radiopharmaceutical and honestly, if we were not familiar with the system and its specific function, how it is done and how this thing is produced, with two or three paragraphs, they could have blown up the contest in the air. Not to take what we want, which is the most economically advantageous and also gives the opportunity, but ultimately in the name of getting something much better, not to offer anyone, to remain in the situation that we are with the monopoly today, or if we did other deals. That is what has happened, and that must of course be changed. I started by doing this, Mr Lambroulis, because this is where EUR 4.5 million of the equipment for the 'August' is planned. I can also give you the list, to view it from the digital endoscopic lithography lithography lithography lithography lithography lithography lithography lithography, a new system of agitation with a monitor suspension for the hybrid surgery, a second coronography system, replacement of equipment in the two intensive treatment units that operate both on beds and on monitors and monitors, a magnetic tomography system 1,5-4, an endoscopic ultrasonography system and two complete digital video imaging systems, etc. So we don't leave them alone, and we don't expect...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u82	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u83	Do you look a little bit like that, Mr. Bright? They gave it some more time, didn't they?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u84	I was saying other things from the Step and the committee. I asked...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u85	We're not leaving anything to his luck.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u86	If the President gives me the floor, I would like to clarify something. Don’t throw words for impressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u87	We don't make wardrobes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u88	I asked if the eight rooms that have already been completed would be equipped with beds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u89	They've already been equipped.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u90	That's what I asked you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u91	They'll be equipped, Mr. Lambroulis, they'll be equipped, that's what I'm telling you. Already the three are equipped and equipped. Man I want, now I want him! The others will be equipped. I do not think there is much to say in relation to the ratification of the Convention and I am going to go to the amendments. The first Ministerial Amendment, number 1456 and specific 106 minutes, is the harmonisation with a European Directive of 25 July 2016 that all blood establishments in the country must respect certain guidelines of good practice, which the National Center for Haemorrhage, in order to certify safe blood donation. The second amendment with number 1459 and a special 109, firstly, substantially extends the winding-up procedure by the EEAS with the new system for public hospitals, military hospitals and pharmacies for the insured of the EEAS. Since the procedures for initiating the liquidation system, as has been done in the entire private sector and private providers, have not been completed, we are prolonging this process. That is to say, monitoring continues in the current way and not in the new way, with the clearance of 100% of the submissions up to 31-12-2018. The second article, essentially makes a legislative improvement in the procedure that we laid down by the last Pharmacy Act, in relation to bilateral and overnight stays. There was a mistake in the hours in which they were in, that is, 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m.. at night. In fact, it does not exempt them, that is, they cannot be excluded from the inspection procedure. It simply better defines what is being done. That is because there was a mistake in the first wording. As far as the third article of this amendment is concerned, I would like to say that we are in fact allowing the CCIB to supply medicines and vaccines at the hospital price and not at the retail price, as established in previous years, when it was directly purchased from private pharmacies or from other suppliers, it was offered at more expensive prices, although it was necessary to deal with vulnerable groups, refugee populations, which it has the responsibility of handling them, etc. So we give him the possibility of supplying medicines at hospital prices, making a very large savings. I come to the third amendment with a general number of 1460 and a special number of 110. With paragraph 1, we shall extend until the conclusion of the tenders, which have been published in the health regions for the supply of health material, medicines and reagents to laboratories and primary medicine, the contracts existing by hospitals. There is an extension until the new tenders are completed, which will be carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that the primary structures can be provided from there. With paragraph 2, we are prolonging for a year the payment of the uniform allowance to the crew of the National Direct Aid Centre of the EKP, meeting a request from the workers there. We're waiting for the tender notice we're going to do to supply outfit through the National Central Supplier Authority. I come to paragraph 3 and reply to Mr Bargiota. Mr. Barriotta, you know the story of molecular control from the past and how it started. When Poland and Hungary paid EUR 7, 8 and 9 for the examination, we here in 2006 and 2008 - and this is also a part of the CEDEFOP scandal - paid it EUR 50, 55, 60 and 80 for the examination. It's been the previous competition. Unfortunately, we have had a delay from the previous Procurement Committee in approving the proclamation of the terms of the tender. We have also had a corresponding delay in the serological control of blood, which we have, of course, carried out. Because the previous contract ends in April - May and the process will not be completed until then, so that we do not find ourselves in a contract-free vacuum and the appetite opens up to some companies to say 'now you do not have a contract, pay the hair of your head', we actually extend the previous contract until the new contract is completed, which I think will achieve even better prices. The next amendment is Amendment No 1462. I would also like to reply to this amendment. Here's two things. It's about the EMCDDA. Yes, in the EMCDDA - colleagues from the Golden Dawn have also been mentioned - two checks have been carried out in the EEA. The D.A.'s gone to the D.A.'s case. The previous commander of the EMCDDA, in order to put himself on record, had reached the cost of the monthly inspection of the centre at about 100,000 to 120,000 per month. From now on, this cost is down to 35,000 to 40,000 euros a month, because we changed invoicing and paid as ERAS doctors and not the eight-hour special invoices, etc. Of course, we are talking about real people and real newspaperers, whether doctors or administrative, and not about what has been done before, which is described in the SPS findings and should be the prosecutors to move faster, because some people were going and getting monthly from there, saying and well that they were on their watch and did not know people born that they had stepped in there. With the recent regulation, therefore, on the EMCDDA, we are essentially correcting two points in the previous regulation. Let me inform you that the C.E.S.D. has already left that sinful building of Kifisia. It has been transferred to the building of Macedonia, near the Ministry of Health. The infrastructure has been structured. There is an obligation for the Ministry of Health to pay those 3.5m euros a year for rent in this building, which was a ghost building. It was from the HIAD scandal with those properties we sold and we rebuild them directly. We bought them with our own money, from the rent. It was what Samaras had done just before he left in 2015. Basically, we correct two points here. One thing has to do with the administration, in which we say the commander will be full-time and full-time, while the lieutenant may be full-time. We also allow doctors from the ERC to take over governors. There was no such possibility, as had been formulated by the law. The second paragraph has to do with the following, that we allow military doctors to be able to inform the EMCDDA. It used to be with the arrangement that we went through and said that he might be involved with doctors of the ESS, doctors of public health, etc., but from mistakes the military doctors, who want to do on-call and have problems completing the monthly list of newspapers, had been excluded. This is what we put and are paid practically with the on-calls and the price of curator II. These are the ministerial amendments. We accept the amendments tabled by my colleagues. They solve some specific problems. I am talking about the amendment tabled by Mr Papadopoulos, Mr Mandas and Mrs Jufis on how to submit candidates for the new positions of the ESS doctors, on the basis of the new way for the deadline. It makes this clarification. We also accepted Amendment No 1458, and Amendment No 108, tabled again by three Members, and which solves a problem in the already declared positions, which could not be supplemented by the councils, because there were no coordinators in this health region. They're both accepted. I would like to say one word - I will say it again - because I feel the need, in relation to what the Golden Dawn said before. Well, first of all, we've said we're not answering you, because you're being convicted of setting up a criminal organization for the murder of Paul Bridge.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u92	We're not all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u93	I've said it before. You want to hear it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u94	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u95	Secondly, I had written some things and I have to answer them. I listened carefully and did not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Condonis why is he answering, who is a Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u97	Ask the Minister of Justice. I tell you what my position is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u98	I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u99	Hey, I told you what my position is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u100	You're like the Tree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u101	We have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u102	Absolutely, that's what you identify.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Aivatidis, please. Finish it, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u104	I think - and I shall plead with what Mr Dannelis said - that in relation to Macedonian, Skopje, a window of opportunity is opened after twenty-seven years. These twenty-seven years we have travelled a route. We didn't fall out of the sky. This situation we are dealing with today, some have shaped it. A nationalist government fell there, which began to set up statues, name streets and do things. Then I don't know where everyone was, who today rises up to stop them. Then no one was talking when that happened. Then who ruled? The Left was ruling then? The ANLLs were ruling then? Then who ruled?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u105	Not us, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u106	You didn't look anywhere then either. No reaction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u107	We have reacted from the first moment. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u108	At the moment there is a window of opportunity, based on the indication of goodwill, which it seems. There will be an overall negotiation, which will be the first to end, will be the removal of any anti-corruption elements either of the Constitution, of the names of the roads or of the state's institutional expressions. We must go to a complex name with a spatial or time span against everyone. Because there's a route so far. You don't start at zero. We didn't fall out of the sky. It's been twenty - seven years. One hundred and forty countries have recognized her under her constitutional name. The problem is not in the past twenty-five years. It's the last seventy. When they recognized her as "Socialist Republic of Macedonia", then why was it "extreme of the tomb silence on the grounds reigning"? In 1990 the "Socialist" left the "Democracy of Macedonia". I do not want to talk now about the videos and the things that have come out. Here is an issue with the New Democracy. What's the attitude? He'll tell us what attitude he's holding, beyond that we don't handle them well, etc.Huh? What are you talking about? Says who? Does your Chief say so?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u109	Are we going to discuss this here today at the Crucifixion of the donation of the National Bank?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u110	I answer because some things have been heard. Does your Chief say so? Does Mrs. Bakoyannis say so? Does Mr Karamanlis say so? Mr. Georgiadis says so, who called them nationally dangerous people, and I don't know what else? Once certain things are heard, they must be answered. With wisdom and seriousness, therefore, with a sense of responsibility and patriotic duty, this government will safeguard our national interests, as it must also lead to a solution to a problem which will open up other roads as a whole for the Balkan peninsula. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and four teachers attending from the 2nd General School of Agrinio. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] It is up to the Parliamentary Representatives to speak. Mr. Mada, will you take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u112	In the end, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Kefaliannis from New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u114	Because he's out, talk a little later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u115	Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, Mr Barriottas for the draft law has been put to committee in a very short, but essential way. He did so today in plenary. As far as the ratification of the Act ending the donation contract of the National Bank to the general hospital of Evangelism, the Ophthalmian Hall of Athens and the Polyclical, I think there is no reason for the agreement. I don't know if any specific references were made, but the expansion of the “Evangelism” Hospital with the loan again from the National Bank, I think it was signed at the end of 2010 and the project proceeded. Obviously, we're in agreement. The government does well to accept this donation. I would like to make two points on general issues, as a parliamentary representative. The first is not the government, but the majority party, SYRIZA, in relation to what was formulated on two sides in the European space by French politician Mr. Melanson, who proposed that SYRIZA be expelled from the European Left. I, with this man, have no deal and the Democratic Reconciliation too. As far as I know, no party in this House. I even asked - since I had some questions - and I learned that she has no brotherly relationships. He is a politician, who if we had followed what he said, Greece would have gone bankrupt and fallen into the cliff. He is a politician, who has complied with the majority of today, in the first half of his term, with the policies of Varoufakis. Therefore, I do not support any argument in his opinion. I simply point it out as an issue that raises issues of political identities and how deceptive these issues are too many times when it speaks of neoliberal and non-liberal. These are 'other words to be loved'. They have nothing to do with policies being pursued. Politicians show in practice what the mark is in the political biography of the one who exercises it. However, it is worthwhile, at least in comment, a thought expressed by the head of Euroworking Group, Mr Visser, about which of the governments that had to adopt memoranda embraced them more. It estimates that the present government is the one that embraced the memorials most. Therefore, the arguments 'I do not want to, but I am voting' cannot be upheld anymore. There is a European testimony that they have nothing to do with the truth. They all mentioned FYROM's theme. We were not going to report today. We had a reason yesterday to do, because some politicians and the press have taken advantage of our consistent attitude to defend the interests of our country and have considered us as potential co-pilots with SYRIZA. We condemned this and we are pleased that the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Bored yesterday, in our condemnation of this condemnation. That's not serious. So we had no intention today of making another reference. But everyone reported. It is therefore advisable for us, too, to submit a number of more thoughts: Since December, with my own announcements and then with the communications made by Mrs Gennamas two and three times and the announcement she made after her meeting with the Prime Minister last Saturday, we have shown that in our minds and in our political behaviour we have only the interests of the country and that is what we will defend. In this direction, what Mr Simitis said and what Mr Venizelos said. That's undeniable. We have held, held, and we will take a stand, which will not undermine our country, whoever is ruling. Our views are clear, stable, it helps us and the archive of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as far as the negotiation is concerned and we will not be tired of repeating them. However, in this very context, I would like to emphasise today, on the opportunity given to me, a phrase from the statement by Mrs Gennamas last Saturday. He said that all of us, who form the Change Movement, consider a comprehensive solution necessary. And within this overall solution we obviously also include the revision of the FYROM constitution. And because many ask "what is it that bothers you in that constitution?" regardless of what I personally believe, as a scientist and at times I have expressed, I tell you what the position of the country is. The country's position, as combined by many governments, is that changes to the FYROM constitution need to be made. For example, Article 7 must be changed, which refers to their language as 'Macedonian'. It must be changed - and here I shall end, ladies and gentlemen - Article 49, of which half of the first paragraph I want to translate into this Chamber: they say that democracy - their state - takes care of the status and rights of those who belong to the Macedonian people in neighbouring countries. And he doesn't mean the excruciators, because the excruciations are mentioned below. This article cannot stand in a framework of agreement, as the overall solution presupposes. We are asking for what they will agree to, to be reflected in their constitution. And that is not the position of the Democratic Alliance, but the position of the former governments and the present one. Because I listened very carefully to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The solution therefore arises, not only from the naming, but overall, as we have said and will result from an overall agreement, which will have two parties, our own and that of Macedonia and, of course, it will be recognised by the UN, which is currently mediating. These are our views, Madam President, and we insist on them. They have supported, supported and we will support, without affecting us anything else. Our homeland is loved by us, as are others, and we will support it, in the way that it has shaped itself over time and many governments, in terms of its specific foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos. Mr. Kefaliannis, would you like to speak or continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u118	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Pappas and Mr. Lazaridis are absent. There is no parliamentary representative from the JRC and from the ANELs. Mr. Amyras, we have arrived at you. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the donation of the National Bank of Greece to the public health system, which is of course welcome. It was right to hear from many rapporteurs and, of course, from our rapporteur, Mr Dannelly, the issue of bureaucracy that digits such good intentions. I, my dear Minister, since I have the opportunity, will raise a number of questions in this serious matter, not for the National Assembly, but for how the agreement on the extrajudicial settlement between the Greek Government and Siemens is progressing. As of 1 January 2012, Siemens and Siemens submitted their comments to the Opening Decision. In particular, this arrangement provided that SIEMENS should pay EUR 90 million in five years, i.e. until 29 August 2017, for example for assistance to hospitals. I would therefore like to ask, as far as hospitals are concerned, how many of these requests have been sent for this supply programme, which hospitals have been delivered medical equipment and to what extent these requests have been met. I would remind you that the arrangement between ‘SIEMENS’ and the Greek State said that we would have a EUR 80 million netting from previous or future claims by the German company, at the expense of the Greek State and the payment, as I said, of EUR 90 million over five years. Part of this money was intended for health. The hospitals could lodge requests and absorb money. I therefore ask you how many hospitals have submitted such requests, if they have been supplied with medical equipment, and if, in any case, SIEMENS has implemented this agreement, this extrajudicial compromise. That is the first thing I want to ask you, Minister. Now I will take you to three wonderful parts of Greece, Florina, Kalambaka and Ikaria. These are issues for which I have asked you many questions and written questions. But as many times as I have to tell you - in the good sense - in plenary or in the committees I ask you some questions about specific issues, such as what I have told you about the General Hospital of Florins. There, as you know, births have been suspended in the absence of children. Pregnant pregnant women are forced to go from Florina to Ptolemais or Kozani or Thessaloniki. I want to ask what is going to happen with the Paediatric Clinic, which has been closed because of a lack of children? There cumulatively, they don't become births. As far as Kalambakas Health Centre is concerned, while there is a pediatric area, the pediatrician goes once or twice a week to Kalambaka from Trikala Hospital. In addition to the pediatrician, I remind you that there are a thousand four hundred and seventy-seven children under the age of 14 and infants in Kalambaka. The position of the radiologist has not yet been filled. His term of office was over in April 2017, so I would like you to give me some information on this matter too. And I'm ending with Ikaria and the Artificial Neffru Unit. Since September 2016, the Ministry of Health has started and is trying to complete the construction of the artificial kidney unit. People are forced to take the boat and go to neighboring islands or come to Piraeus and Athens to do their blood cleaning. I would therefore like a timetable for the operation of the artificial kidney unit in Ikaria. I have asked you this question and you have answered - to help you - that you are in the process of collecting signatures. It is another bureaucratic, of course, difficulty, a mountain of bureaucracy, which prevents self-evident. I conclude by saying - because I see my good colleague, Mr Papachristopoulos - that I am, of course, watching, Mr Papachristopoulos, your speeches and you have often referred to the concentration of wealth on a few people on the planet. If you see it from the side of the JRC, yes, that's a problem. If we look at it on the other side, however, I would invite you - because you are a good trusted man - to consider the wealth of Bill Gates, the richest man on the planet, but also the wealth he has created. Remember what it was like thirty and forty years ago the world economy, the local economy, the Greek economy, when there were no computers and remember today and make comparisons. It improves the position of every man with the creation - so to speak - of Bill Gates and others. Millions of new jobs have been created in various sectors of the economy, because the economy has accelerated, it has warmed up, it has found new outlets to express itself. So I'd say to think about the last, dear Mr. Papachristopoulos, that Bill Gates has donated all his property to charity, but also to developmental purposes. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Madam President. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that it is one of the few pleasant moments of Parliament which at least all parties at least agree to the content of a legislative initiative. That is why I think there is no reason to go into detail. In addition, our rapporteur has been very specific. And there is certainly no particular analysis in this debate. But if we have to keep something from this process, it is the cooperation of a private body, such as that of the National Bank with the Treasury, in this case with the Ministry of Health. When there is good cooperation and good administration of resources, we may be able to do much more than that, which we had originally planned. And I think that this, ladies and gentlemen, is the essence of the debate today. However, I regret to say that we will need a great deal of examples of such cooperation, such examples of good administration and of resource management, so that this thing will become dominant in public administration. I am sorry to say this because, unfortunately, in the same draft of the two articles, seven amendments have also been tabled with multiple articles, some of which concern the management of public money, and unfortunately confirm what our people have said "What have I always had? I say this - it has been heard by our rapporteur - because I would like to give an answer to the respective rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, that, when we say'relevant amendments', we do not say unnecessarily in terms of health, meaningless amendments to the bill. It does not mean, therefore, that when we bring amendments concerning the whole health sector, we should not denounce this as a legislative initiative. You also denounced it, Mr. Ministers, when you were in the opposition. Unfortunately, we see that this thing is repeated. This is perhaps also an exhortation to all of us and to the future, how we can at least eliminate this thing in the future. I would also like to see some of these amendments and to denounce another practice, namely the fact that in some of these amendments you are actually bringing positive regulations, but you are putting them into some other provisions. Unfortunately, we are forced to vote against them because, while we are positive in a paragraph or in an article in this amendment, we are negative in something else. For example, in Amendment No 1459, of course, we could agree in Article 3 on the supply of medicinal products from the CEDEFOP. I want this recorded. We are positive about this arrangement, Minister. In no case, however, can we agree with the extension of the deadlines set out in Article 1, which concerns the clearance of the costs of the EEAS. In addition, with regard to Amendment No 1460, we cannot agree with the extension of the contract to the suppliers of hospitals, while, of course, we are positive - and I would also like this to be recorded - with paragraph 2, on the payment of the allowance for the CSR's crew. I am making a very specific proposal to you, if you really want to contribute: withdraw the amendments, break them, bring each article separately, as far as the specific arrangements are concerned, and we are positive about what I have said and, of course, about the articles and paragraphs that I have referred to. I'm gonna stand up a little bit longer. I shall refer to the amendment with a general number of 1460 and a special number of 110 dealing with various issues of the Ministry of Health. With paragraph 3, you are giving extensions to the molecular control contracts for blood units. Of course, you know very well, you also said, Mr Minister, that these conventions were not yesterday, they were signed four years ago. And you know very well that your government is currently ruling for three years. However, while you knew that they were being completed in any way, you did not succeed in declaring the tender in time. And as if that is not enough, Minister, you are giving an extension, be careful not three months or six months, but a whole year. This, unfortunately, makes us think that segregation is at a very early stage, too backward, and that is why you are forced to give this extension. Secondly, it is laid down in the provision that the value of these contracts may not exceed 25% of the total value of the contracts in force.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u123	It's been four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u124	In any case, let this be a measure of comparison - what we said at the outset - of the sound management of resources in private and public cooperation, in relation to what at least gives us a lot of questions. I will conclude with a comment on the amendment, with a general number of 1457 and a special 107, where I would like a clarification, Minister, in your dentistry, because the question is how the time to process a candidate is related to the deadline for it. I mean, these two are two different, separate procedures. SYRIZA's colleagues, with this proposed amendment, do not regulate the processing time by the services, but the deadline for the electronic submission of the candidates for the post of ERC doctors. I would like a comment on this, Minister. I will close with two general remarks I have heard. I did not intend to speak, but I was given the opportunity. One is from my dear colleague, Mr Papachristopoulos, who spoke about the social state and I am glad that we are having an ideological and political debate in this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, the social state, as the honourable Member has referred to the European Union, has gone on over the last few decades, because there have been two political groups, the dominant ideological streams, which have moved ahead of European integration. These two ideological currents were on the one hand Christian Democracy, Central Right, and on the other the Social Democracy, the Central Left. Wars of this process were, of course, extremes and often, unfortunately, there was also some Euroscepticism, which came from the left at times too. Of course, the position of the Communist Party against the European Union is also well known. Unfortunately, there has also been unreserved neoliberalism - which we do not agree with - the extreme centre we say many times, which in any case was against the social state. We must not forget, however, and we must be fair in this Chamber that these two major European political groups have gone before the social state in Europe: the centre-right and the centre-left. Of course, I am pleased that many in this Chamber have made a political turn, an ideological turn and where they were opposed to the European Union, they have fully complied with it. I am very pleased to see the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, taking part in the proceedings of the Social Democratic Party in Europe, even as an observer - it is a good thing - where he was opposed - that we knew it during his course in Anti-Population - and with the European Union on many points. Of course, too, the party belonging to the Euro-left group has often expressed Euro-sceptical positions. I shall conclude with the reference made to the issue of Skopje, which I think is also about Greek society. Mr Minister, since you referred to the positions of the New Democracy, our positions are clear. We have told you that, first of all, we are seeking a solution which is uniform and indivisible, not what the government unfortunately seems to be doing, namely agreeing on the name, agreeing to enter NATO the neighbouring state and then we see the rest along the way. Unfortunately, our fur has been burnt by similar procedures. I am telling you the example of Albania, where we agreed to join NATO and later saw that there was a review of the arrangement of maritime zones through the Albanian Constitutional Court. If there is no single, indivisible agreement, we fear that, unfortunately, the same scenario can be repeated. Of course, the second basic condition is the elimination of all alkaliism from the neighbouring country. We have reiterated this and I am very pleased that the other parties, after the New Democracy put it first in the public debate, have taken this position, and at least at this point starts to form a national line. I think it is self-proof to say that there must also be a name acceptable to Greece and of course that name should be erga omnes. I will, however, close with one comment. In 2008 in Bucharest, we did achieve a great deal and, above all, we succeeded in achieving the fact that there was a unanimous decision from the NATO Alliance - there was no veto, there was a unanimous decision - which said that if the issue of the name, the neighbouring state did not enter the organisation. I think this should be a very important deposit for us. However, as negotiations on foreign policy are not static, but it is a process that is evolving and because we, as a New Democracy, consider that the current conditions, namely 2018, are more favourable to our country than 2008 and to the ideas that have been pursued at that time by the respective government, we believe that the acquis of Bucharest is, if you want, not the basis, but the ceiling that should be agreed between the two states. We therefore believe that, once the present conditions are particularly favourable, the government should not go on the basis of Bucharest, but on the ceiling of Bucharest. So to close the complex issue, the position of the New Democracy is crystal clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u125	Based on or on a ceiling?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u126	On the ceiling, Minister. I'll explain it to you so you can understand it better. It is the highest that the neighbouring state can expect to follow rather than the base. Because when it's the base, it means that perhaps in the course you can give more. This is the difference between the base and the ceiling. But I say to you that if there is no - and I close with it - a single, concrete and indivisible agreement, the New Democracy is not going to vote for this procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, too. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Madam President. The previous speaker on behalf of the New Democracy closed his speech, saying about the sacred issue of the name of Macedonia and about our sacred national theme. I appreciate you not because of a political position. I appreciate you because of your origins because I love Crete, Mr. Kefaliannis. But I would like to tell you that you have said some things and in fact you did not say anything. You said the New Democracy has a crystal position on the skopje. What's the crystal position? Acceptance of the composite name. You said you would not accept any names if they were not uniform and indivisible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u129	The deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u130	Verbatism. What indivisible and uniform? This is our important difference. We say: 'An indivisible Greek Macedonia'. That is the national purpose. That's our difference. And you've given the name, not now that you're talking about a complex name, but a lot before. May I remind you of the day - 7 July 2012, if I am not deceived - where, from the Step, Dimitris Avramopoulos - I have said this before from the Step - he said that we made the great compromise and accept the complex name? In particular: "As far as FYROM is concerned, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia - which is also modest - the acceptance of Macedonia's name in this complex name of FYROM is not just a difference - says Abrahamopoulos - about historical events and symbols. I'm sure he's worth it. It is a question of respect for international law and international legality. Greece - New Democracy now - by demonstrating the constructive spirit required - our national theme is a constructive issue and a spirit - has made a major - fortunately you admit it - a compromise, accepting a complex name with geographical identification and use vis-à-vis everyone." What you have candy in here and you say erga omnes. With Latin, to falsify the Greek people who listens to us. Every politician flies here an erga omnes and something's going on in gypsy. Can I talk to you more? Year 2005. Your Minister with the "Macedoniacho" Samara, the government of Samara. Venizelos accepts the composite name and says to the UN General Assembly that even that name - the words of Venizelos - is not a problem for Skopje's admission to the European Union and their admission to NATO. Year 2014. Can I take you back? WikiLeaks went out. You've seen them. If you haven't seen them, take them from the Minutes. I'm filing it so the blind ones can see it. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And they do not present a crystallised view, but they tallen the world and try to rob the pure rebellion of the Greek people, the rally of Thessaloniki, the mediterranean rally of Athens, in order to get noodles and party benefits. That's what you're doing. Is there anything else you can do? Or are you doing the erga omnes? All the leading officials of the New Democracy. Who should I start with? Dora Bakoyannis, Samara, Abrahamopoulos, I was saying before? You've all accepted it. The Mitsotakis, the little Mitsotakis, the very small Mitsotakis of 1993. Listen to Mitsotakis' interview in 1993-1993 then, small and now, because if you were a patriot, you are now - who interviews the magazine "E" of the "Cyprian Freedom". There are records, we collect them. We know who you are. "Democrat: The exacerbation of nationalism - or patriotism by others - around Macedonian how do you judge it?" Reply Mitsotakis: "The issue is of great importance to Greece and rightly. It's very important to me, too. But it cannot be part of a more general foreign policy framework. My impression - and I say it with a heavy heart - is that Macedonian cannot be the first theme of our foreign policy." Nah, what are you saying, Mitsotakis? Is it not our national theme, is it not our first issue for Greece, first theme for foreign policy? It has been said since that: 'Our integration into the framework of a united Europe is, in my opinion, the first topic'. You are selling for Europe, you "persistent Europeans", you "Europeans", you "Europeans", you are selling our Greece, selling our Macedonia for the sake of Europe and the people that protect you. And we all know the political establishment of Greece by whom it is protected and by which embassies it is protected. Mitsotakis continues: "Macedonian is important not in itself, but for his symbolicity. I cannot see Skopje's democracy being an essential geopolitical risk to Greece." Oh, no? Skopje that will have one of the largest American and Natali bases, this Natali gang on our northern border, isn't it a threat to Greece? "The argument that the name may result in Skopje's expansionist tendencies to the south has some basis, but I do not see it as a visible possibility." Let me continue, says more fatter, give you the Minutes to see them? In 1993, you were a little kid at the time. So don't falsify you, your Chief and you yourself, and don't back off for the sake of the chair and the parliament. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In all of this, we also have the media that dropped yesterday, the media, the lie once again, you know, those instruments that exclude the Golden Dawn, the third political power of the country. And I'm not saying that with a complaint because they're excluding us. They are the same instruments that did not show picture and sound from the great rally of half a million Greeks in Thessaloniki. The means were therefore thrown away and said: "The Golden Dawn event in Chios has been bleaked." Photos from the Golden Dawn event in Chios, which was held in a warm climate. I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Pappa, will you get in on the subject?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u132	You're welcome, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u133	I am speaking on the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u134	I've got five more minutes on the subject, I'll come to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u135	Oh, you'll share it. You've got less of it, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u136	I'll share it. Not only did the event happen, but it was a great success. And as the chiospress.gr mentions, there also came families with their children to attend the event. Youth has come too, which is the hope of this place. It will be filled tomorrow with youths the Constitution. And in the Constitution we will be, not with party flags, not with party banners, we will be with blue-white, because the country unites and the parties divide. Because in this Chamber a moment ago - he's away now - Mr. Danellis made a huge blow, tried to exclude the Golden Dawn from the rally. And he even said about the skeptical 'what we have won and what we have lost'. So he puts, like the rest of the constitutional arch, the democratic arch, the name of our Macedonia in the yoke. A great foul on behalf of Mr Dannelly, but I justify him because the Potami has become a river and now the defendant is trying to win the five-minute anti-fascist publicity. So I am opposed to the words, and I think it is not worth it any more. Madam President, in about fifty minutes I shall be in the Greek Parliament's ethics committee. It is a committee which meets without television coverage. What for? I shall be invoked by the Committee on Ethics, with a proposal from the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, for anti-parliamentary behaviour. So what did Mr. Cassidy say in his speech? Now you're starting to censor us and what we're talking about in here. You will also censor the Greek people, who will tell you on Sunday: "Macedonia is Greek, punks, traitors politicians." Will you take it to a ethics committee? Mr Anastasios Kourakis, President of the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics: "Athens, 1/2...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Pappa, do you think this should be read here now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u138	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u139	What's the point?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u140	Yes, it has to be read, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u141	Why, Mr. Pappa? Because it's a secret meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u142	So, because it is a memorial to a Member who has no right and no possibility of getting out of the media to say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u143	From the Step of the House, we don't exhaust...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u144	...and the only step is the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u145	...our partisan. Please! Talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u146	I denounce the President of Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u147	Mickey Theodorakis listens to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u148	With the good of Mickey Theodorakis coming to the rally. I told you, the country unites, the parties divide. And surely the rally protesters will be left looking for their vote in the upcoming elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Pappa, you read it yourself. He has issues in this record.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u150	They are left repenters because they saw what you are and who you are and how many ethnic traitors you can be for the sake of your bosses.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u151	You're doing it in Parliament's plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u152	You've become Americans.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u153	Can you hear me now what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u154	"Criminal delirium says...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u155	If you read this in the House, because it contains hybrid phrases, I will have to take action.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u156	Good. Take me to the ethics committee, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u157	Please! You are addressing a specific institution. We're not doing everything here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u158	You're wasting my time, Madam President. When you hear the hybrid phrases, because you don't have any hybrid phrases on this text...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u159	Do you want me to say what phrases Mr. Cassidy said?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u160	I won't say the phrase that the Cassier said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u161	I have them here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u162	Oh, good. Mr. Cassidy said...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u163	Say something about this, or I'll take your word off. It's been a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u164	He told all the ethnicists and traitors of Macedonia "spirits", "political waste", who will go to the bottom of the country's political history, because the people decide. For you are not a parliament elected to deliver the name of Macedonia, you are not a parliament elected for that purpose. The September 2015 elections on an economic issue were held. They're done for the Memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Pappa, I'm revoking you to class.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u166	They're done for the third evaluation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u167	I'm revoking you to class!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u168	This House is illegal to vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u169	Stop all this intolerance within Parliament. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u170	Mirage is our Macedonia, Madam President? Misallody is our national name, our soul?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u171	Please don't make party propaganda here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u172	Was Paul Mellas, Ion Dragum?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u173	Parliament is about to deal with ideas, not with amonogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u174	Misallodos are the millions of Greeks who rise? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u175	Please, I'm revoking you to class.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u176	So no compromise for our Macedonia. I shall conclude, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u177	Do you know what "revocation in class" means?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u178	You're a good representative of the new class that you've given up on me in the new class...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u179	So, apologise, or I'll move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u180	Go ahead, then. I would like to tell you that when Mitsotakis, with a heavy heart, sold out the name of Macedonia in 1993, as I read in the interview he had given to the "Cyprian Freedomprint", then there was another newspaper that continues and goes out every Wednesday, the "Golden Dawn", which was coming out with a headline: 'No compromise for our Macedonia'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Pappa, Member of Parliament who refers to matters regardless of and outside the debate...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u182	Twenty-five years after the Golden Dawn has a crystal clear position and says the same: "No compromise for our Macedonia, Macedonia is just one and it's Greek."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u183	We're taking his word away! It is a pity, therefore, that you are using the House to make party propaganda and humiliate the rally, which you so defend. Because he's humiliating the rally, using this way to gather people. I hope, however, that the Greek people are watching and will understand something about Sundays.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u184	He's got you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u185	Now go. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-seven students and students and three teachers from the High School of Antissa Lesvos, which is hosted in Athens in the framework of the educational program organized by the Foundation of the Parliament. We welcome you to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You have seen, my children, here how the debates in Parliament are shaping. And find out what democracy is and how it's threatened by anything. Mr Mandas, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that in this bill, obviously, we have a basic common place and that is positive, no doubt. I think that in health issues we can find other common places, if we can speak frankly, if we talk about problems, if we talk to one, I say, an orientation to defend public health. Of course, I do not agree with various things that have been heard in this Chamber that are a little ideological and political, for example that the two major political families of Europe have been converging in the social state. I would like here to remind those who have referred, one way or another, to the ultra-government - and I would like to comment on this - that since the 1990s and the hard dogmas of neoliberalism, which have been expressed in particular by Reagan and Thatcher's policies - and some of us have experience, and experiential experience, especially from the British national health system - the direction of neoliberalism, which unfortunately went into for a long time and the social democratic current, has been the one that disorganised the national health systems, especially the British national health system. And it is no coincidence that the UK Labour Party under Corbin put, as one of the first issues in his general slogan: "For the many and not the few," the issue of the national health system. So, in order not to be forgotten, this conflict remains. I have spoken about common places that we can find, but at the same time I would like to say that the doctrine of neoliberalism, in our view, and as has been stated in the Minutes, I say again, in the United States, and today is expressed by the aggressive attitude of the new American leadership towards what Barack Obama has tried to build, is a conflict between views - and I come to this with Bill Gates - which believe that the social good will arise only when we are overcrowded by wealth and that some overcrowded people will save, one way or another, this social good. It is quite different, radically different, our opinion. It is the view that the social good of health, as well as the social goods included in the social state, is an element of development and redistribution from the first moment, and not if they are abundant. They can't spare them. This is a radical difference in our perception and function. I would therefore say these given, we continue and we are always concerned about the area of public health. So whatever possibilities we have in cooperation, in programme agreements, we must and must take advantage of them, in the good sense, in terms of transparency, sound management, sound policy, so as to strengthen a system which, when we received it as a government, was on the brink of collapse. Now, we have clear indications - evidence I would say -, stabilisation and a new start. And this cannot be underestimated at all if we take and remember two top choices made by this government: firstly, the universal coverage of all unsafe people, where two and a half million people have access to the public health system and secondly, the great institutional division that is under way, primary health care. And too many more things we need to talk about for days. Many things, which are the fundamental contribution of this government to the stabilisation and the beginning of public health and, more generally, the social state. I would also like to refer to the issues of topical and urgent debate, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, by saying two - three words, which have been raised in today's debate. I personally can no longer watch the slalom of the New Democracy. It's a slalom. If you see, when this government's initiative started - and I would remind you that we voted on it in our programming positions, this initiative we took, we voted in our programming positions, it did not come as a lightning inhabitation - when there was - and there is - a favourable field, a window of opportunity, as it is said, we started this initiative. Let us ask ourselves, Madam President, and ladies and gentlemen, exactly how the New Democracy has beenhaved throughout this route: 'No, this is not a good time', 'No, we will go or not be informed', 'no', 'no', the other. Why? Because he fears this obvious to everyone: that if we can - and I hope we can - bring in a solution in this Chamber as we say, I will say some things - then he will find himself in a very difficult position. Because, within it, her extreme right-wing component, which, unfortunately, seems to have prevailed at this stage, will not know where to leave and what to say. And it will be in a very difficult position. It is, however, an issue - and here I am appealing - that we should not treat as a Greek political system either occasionally, without wisdom or without cooling. And above all, to use it as a lever for political developments that we fantasize about, namely the fall of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. Forget that. There's no way that would happen. Forget any design to which to use as a lever this crucial issue to raise the government. Forget it. If you make this assumption and forget it, I have the impression that many forces within the New Democracy - and this has become evident in the way of these days - can indeed think calmly, wisely and on the basis of stability and peace in the region and the national interest and move on to what the political system can actually agree. I think that if we get out of this, we have this possibility, we can finally agree on a solution to this problem that has been abused for over twenty-five years. So, what do we want? Do we want to hide our head in sand like ostrichs and not see that a hundred and thirty or a hundred countries today recognize the neighbouring country with its constitutional name - between them and four members of the Security Council, the United States, China, Russia - will not be made within a short period of fifty, sixty or seventy? Don't we understand that? Do we not understand that it is in the interests of the country and for too many more reasons to be able, at the moment, to have a moderate government, which is discussing, which will be moving tomorrow to change the main axis and to change the name of the airport? Is it symbolic moves, yes, but do we not understand that on this line we should go rather than on the extremes and attempted hug, with the most extreme right, repulsive and extreme nationalistic, which has cost the history and the route of our country and the embrace in this respect? So I think it's a moment when we need to think calmly, sober. I think we have room for a sensible solution to this problem. I repeat that it will be in the interest of the Greek people, it will be in the interests of peace and stability in the region. Otherwise, in another logic, different, that goes to express the Nazi formula of the Golden Dawn in this Chamber, we will lead to adventures. To understand that, to keep this in mind. I think it's times when we have to work with coolness and sobriety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u187	Before I give the floor to the Ministers for Legislative Improvements, I would like to read a communication. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational program "Research and we are discussing Governor Ioannis Kapodistrias" organized by the Foundation, twenty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the 62nd High School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] What I wanted to say in relation to the fact that Mr Pappas, the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, is that it is not possible, as the Rules stipulate, not to speak on the agenda, but to talk about what we think. In particular, Mr Papapas used the Step of the House to have propaganda for the rally, sometimes for different reasons, but always, while not respecting the functioning of Parliament or the Rules of Procedure of the House. I look forward to the Minutes, when they are printed, to what is next, because we must at last react here and not just wait for the President. It is not possible for the House to take a step towards rhetorical hatred. Because that's what this is about. Nor in order for everyone to satisfy their party needs and the needs of the timeliness he wants to show, because he thinks he has found the great opportunity, through the rally, to reorganize the Golden Dawn party. Please, gentlemen. I'm telling you from this step. I shall put it to the Conference of Presidents. There can be no fascist preaching here. It's the temple of democracy. We know that you hate Parliament, that you are here to undermine it, but there are also some rules, especially when you come, and you say these in the presence of disciples, who awefully come to Parliament, who is the temple of democracy. Today we had a lot of visits. That's not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u188	You're making propaganda now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u189	Please, Mr. Aivatidis. Don't raise matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u190	Big mistake. Make propaganda against Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u191	You are a fascist party, you expect your trial to be completed and you are accused of specific things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u192	Give me the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u193	You will not now be presenting me here as innocent pigeons who are using Parliament's Step. I'm not giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u194	Rhetorical hatred is what you and Mr. Mandas are doing, calling us a fascist motto.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u195	Against who, sir? In the face of you that Parliament already has a number of decisions?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u196	You just need to have self - knowledge and self - control.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u197	Please. Report, then, you tell me I'm using hate rhetoric.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u198	Expose.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u199	You, Mr Aivatidis, and your party, dare move to restore this misery in which you have led Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u200	Expose.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u201	Am I being exposed? I like to exposing myself to you because I have nothing to do with fascism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u202	I don't like it because I appreciate you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u203	With fascism, I have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u204	We don't either.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u205	The Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u206	Thank you very much. It was expected that no one could disagree with the substance of the proposed contract, which is then a very important donation from the National Bank to the largest hospital in the country, the Evangelism. It is a hospital which also operated during the crisis as a critical pillar of the public health system. There are very important data showing an increase in opportuneness, an increase in hospitals, a very large degree of completeness in beds, 92% -97%, an increase in imports over the last two years around 9% -10%. So it is a hospital that is crucial for adequacy, the quality of the public health system in our country and I think that the National Bank is very right to invest in upgrading its infrastructure. There have been references to partnership with the private sector, to charity. From the point of view of the JRC's colleagues, there was also the criticism that there is a line of blackout of class exploitation and an attempt to create a philosophical staff for private operators, for capital, etc. In my view, ladies and gentlemen, the substance of this issue is as follows. Today in our country we have an asymmetry between the very great health needs of society, citizens and available resources, human and material. That's the truth. How can we deal with this? In our view, only with a serious political project, which will have four, five main axes. It will have the main axis of fiscal consolidation of the system and synergy of resources from different directions. This is what is happening at this time in our country very fully, and we are really following a line that says that beyond the state budget, which is a given and limited, very consciously, we are getting public funds that are social security resources and we are redirecting them and investing them in the public health system and we are not simply buying services from the private sector, as has been done so far. It is very important that the transfer of funds from the EEAS that has taken place in recent years to the ESS is very important. This year he approached around EUR 600 million, last year the 530 million and all previous years he did not exceed EUR 100 million a year. We have been five times, so we have doubled this transfer which is, in fact, a mechanism for redistributing funds for public care. But there is also the issue of the European programmes, of the European Structural Funds, where we are making a very systematic effort to make use of all available funding to support public care in our country as a priority. There is the public investment programme, which this year is twice as much as last year - it is 20 million euros - and that is where we will be including - they have already been executed in 2017 - and now in 2018 too many projects to upgrade equipment and infrastructure with a hierarchy that we have done from all of the health systems. It is the Ministry's reserve, which we have been trying to make full use of for two years and not to be a customer management fund, but to invest in infrastructure and to upgrade the health system as a whole. And of course we also have the great field of donations that can start with self-government. The Deputy Minister has already mentioned the great support from the Attica Region, of the EUR 40 million, which, with all this bureaucratic hardship, we are reaching the stage in calling for these important projects to upgrade high-tech equipment to the public health system so that they can, in fact, be fully competitive and completely innovative in technological change and in the health sector. They're donations to foundations. We have often referred to these, such as the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, from which a very important donation of more than EUR 250 million is under way, which will be upgraded to a very large extent in our country. A new hospital will be built in Komotini, there will be a new Hospital of Children who did not exist in northern Greece, a great improvement will be made in high-tech machines, such as pet scan, in EKAB operations, etc. And of course we also have the donations of banks, of ordinary individuals, through which we are also trying to build a puzzle of sustainable funding of the health system, which will not only allow its stability and its stable functioning - which we think has been achieved - but also the constantly upgraded provision of services to the world. It is very important that we have excellent results in this year's field of budgetary consolidation. We have said so several times, but it is an opportunity to talk to the National Representation today: we have 745m euros, which was closed in 2017, cash available in hospitals and total outstanding liabilities of 647m euros. Immediately - in other words, we have a net cash surplus of more than EUR 100 million in public hospitals. Last year, I would remind you that it was closed at EUR 35 million and last year there was a deficit of EUR 800 million. That's a huge change. And if we account for more than EUR 200 million that we have to receive from clawback in the field of medicine, we actually have a surplus of more than EUR 300 million. It is a sign of serious fiscal consolidation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u207	The numbers are 270 and 500.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u208	Yeah. The fact is that we have spent in the health system this year of 1,820,000 000 000 million with an initial budget of 664 000, because this government has been in austerity, because it has been a primary surplus, we have invested in the health system and we have increased its ability to supply high-cost medicines, to supply material, to recruit subsidiary staff. And the payments we made were much higher, it was 1.9 billion euros. We paid more than we bought, because we also made use of the cash available from the previous year. The public health system has now stopped producing deficits. And that wasn't by chance, it wasn't self-evident, it wasn't for granted. It was a result of a very systematic effort, in which, of course, both the Ministry of Health and all the administrative mechanism in the system, health regions, hospital administrations, etc. I think, therefore, that in order to overcome what I said from the outset, namely the asymmetry of needs and resources, we need, firstly, a serious financial resolution plan, which is in progress. Secondly, we need this upgrading of the infrastructures which are carried out with all these interventions. We are currently looking for an overall improvement in the area of primary health care, in the infrastructure of the ERC, which is indeed outdated. We have health centres in the 1980s that need improvement both in their equipment and in their buildings and in their facilities and we are trying to find a financial instrument with the help of the European Investment Bank. When we're done, we'll present it. The third area is the reinforcement of staff. This, in my view, is the great challenge. The major challenge today in the health system is to invest in reliable, well-trained and obviously the more decently paid human resources. This is the key to the improved operation of the system. Of course, some critical institutional changes and reforms are also needed to ensure that distortions, pathogens, outbreaks of corruption, inducer of demand, waste and exploitation of the disease that existed over time in the health system are eliminated. I think that in this area of priority is primary care, central procurement in the system, changes in the field of medicine, evaluation, price negotiation, and therapeutic protocols. We are making a very systematic effort, which I believe will slowly begin to bear. Let me close by making two reports. One concerns the intervention of the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative for the Social State in Europe, etc. It is true that the social state in Europe was built in the post-war years, it was normally built and established on a social democratic government initiative. There were two main reasons. One was the realization that Europe after World War II ruins had to be rebuilt on a basis that would have greater social cohesion and social support and welfare mechanisms on the one hand. On the other hand, I think that there was a great need to have a counterweight to the ideological influence of the socialist project of the countries of existing socialism, which, in the area of social policy, in the field of health, education and social care, had begun to have very measurable positive steps. Of course, these steps along the way have been cancelled, there have been distortions, there has been an autocratic diversion of these regimes, and that is why they have collapsed. But especially during the post-war period, this influence was very strong and I think there was a need for the European political system to be able to present this counterweight. However, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that the social state, which has been a very important conquest for Europe and an element of cohesion for the idea of Europe, has started to be undermined by both political groups of both of the ideological currents of the governments, both Christian-Democratic and social democrats, already since the 1980s, with the rise of Thatchism, with the first signs of neoliberal influence, and especially after the 1990s, in a more extensive way and, of course, during the crisis, where the basic idea is that the social state is a barbaric budgetary, which prevents exit from the crisis and that what is now a priority is to increase pie and if there is a margin for increasing pie, then we will invest in the social and social cohesion. That's what I think is a crucial difference. The defence of the social state today, in our view, presupposes an anti-neoliberal perspective and presupposes social redistribution policies, the removal of inequalities and, of course, the resolution of the institutional and operational state. Because here I am opening a brief parentheses - especially the social state in the countries of southern Europe - has had the peculiarity that it had incorporated elements of customer organisation and function and anti-corruption outbreaks. And that's what the whole world knows. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] Therefore, in order to support today in a serious and sustainable way the functioning of the social state, firstly, we need interventions that strengthen the idea of universality and equality in health and social care. This means that we really have in our ideological and political starting point the dominant idea of equality. And we cannot believe that inequalities are inherent in the nature of man and the organization of societies. So I think that's about the field. The social state is, in my view, a powerful field of ideological and political conflicts and I think it will be the risk of the debate after the memorandum and the way this country is developed. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The Government's idea of fair growth, that is exactly what it says: that the development debate cannot only relate to indicators, it cannot be per capita GDP, it cannot only relate to figures. It should be about and contain very important factors for social cohesion and prosperity, such as public care, public education, the social state, and prosperous policy. That is our view. I would also like to close with one final comment on the Golden Dawn, because its presence was really challenging today. The rapporteur has spoken to her about the fundamentalism of the ministers, because we despise - he says - to respond to a political force representing 6% to 7% of the population. So the answer is as follows. We do not have a political dialogue with cultures that are controlled to help them with criminal activity on the one hand and on the other they have in their ideological luggage the idea of 'humane', that is, that there are people who are not equal to the others, who are the immigrants, who are the Roma, and whom we must put in the margins of society, we must not take care of them, but we must treat them as a second-speed category. Because the health sector is, therefore, an area of the influence of ideas and values, humanism, equality and social solidarity is not compatible with fascist, racist, xenophobic and intolerance of the Golden Dawn, and that is why we do not have political dialogue with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and three teachers from the 2nd General School of Agrinio (second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We're done with the chatter list. We are in the process of seconds by the rapporteurs and the special speakers. If anyone wishes, they can be placed. Mr. Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u210	As far as the amendments are concerned, we have simply said that we cannot accept such extortion. While we want to vote on some of the amendments which are really moving in the right direction, we are unable to do so because you are putting them with other articles which we feel are unacceptable and which we cannot vote on. We have therefore called for the amendments to be broken so as to allow Civic Opposition, but also for the rest of the Opposition and for everyone else to vote for them. That was not accepted, so we have nothing else to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr. Firela. Mr. Barriots has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u212	I'll try to be later in time. I think what we had to say was about the bill and the amendments. I am, above all, forced to reassign the overall position of the Minister on his work at the Ministry of Health. I said to the Commission the other day that it would be a good thing since there is such anguish on the part of the Ministry to prove it, and well that the health system is about saved and going through a development phase, to have a meeting in the Committee on Social Affairs, and to discuss it thoroughly. It seems, however, that even without an opportunity - because today's bill is not an opportunity to discuss health issues in general - the Ministry is trying to convince us of things that have nothing to do with reality. I am therefore obliged to point out that the 2018 budget, as is printed and already voted on, includes 600 million cuts from the health budget. EUR 600 million has left health and is headed 'Master house where'. I hope, by the way, that the figures I have heard today are the final ones. For every time we hear about a surplus in hospitals, we hear other numbers. I hope today's 100 million is the real thing. We've heard for 350 million and for 450 million. We've heard things. Even if we accept the claim that hospitals no longer need money and the claim for the election of health finances - we will actually see where the money above comes from - we all agree in this Chamber that the health system needs funding, investment and further support. The Minister said so, too. If we agree, I think, as much as the 40 million of Mrs Durou's 40 million, the minimum of 20 million from the Public Investment Programme, which is a funny amount - they have actually increased, but are still little - if we agree that donations as welcome as they are and are important as they do, are not enough either to cover the needs of the ESS and will be presented in the coming years due to disinvestment systematically before, but also because of developments and technology and needs, then one needs to explain why these 600 million left over from the markets, supposedly, hospitals and benefits to the insured - had to leave the general health budget and why they did not go to other investments. In fact, they left because they had to be trained and overcrowded which did not go back to the Ministry of Health, Minister. Unfortunately, they're not going back to the Department of Health. The only resource that has entered the system in recent years to what degree we do not know and to what extent we do not know is 6% of the pensions that this government has passed and which are collected by pensioners in favour of the public health system. This is the only new resource. In English simply, pensioners pay both uninsured and uninsured investments in one way and to a certain extent - I repeat - for which analytical data do not exist. How, what part of 6% is actually collected by the EEAS today and where it is directed is a question that is not generally answered. I have said before, and I have also given you the Social Affairs Committee, that you have an issue with numbers. Today Mr Paulakis mentioned 12 thousand appointments. From the Senate's step, one year back, he had spoken of eighteen and a half thousand assignments. The day before yesterday, we heard about five thousand assignments. We hear the same thing about the money. One is 450 million, the other 380, the next is 100. There is a big issue with their numbers and credibility. It would be a good thing to make it clear as far as staff are concerned. In any case, however, there is a great question. I will not talk about the state of the national health system, whether it has improved, whether the situation in hospitals is better or worse. Citizens know. As all citizens know, and they know it from their experience, that they are buying drugs more and more. Data is data, even though recipes are growing. A very large proportion of the expenditure, which is supposed to have been saved, on the pharmaceutical market in fact are purchases with pocket money, with money coming out of the pocket. This is not a cost limitation, it is a transfer of costs to private individuals, to the middle class and to pensioners, who are no longer writing their medicines, but are buying them. This is also a question that needs to be solved, and it cannot be overthrown that it has reduced the cost of the medicine by actually pushing the costs into the pocket of those who pay for safety. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What is happening in the country lately with the regulations is that those who pay insurance contributions, namely, employees and pensioners, are, at the same time, increasingly forced when they themselves have a health problem to pay from their pockets. And this, since you mentioned a lot of things ideologically, actually undermines the possibility of having a single, universal health system for the whole population and increasingly transforming our system into pro-active, for the simple reason that the people who support it financially, the people who supported it all the previous years are in front of a division. They are forced to pay services that they cannot enjoy. This is one of the biggest problems of this period, which unfortunately the system from the previous one, before you take over, had started to become a system of pro-active, that is, a system for the very poor, for those who have no alternative, which is unfortunately being strengthened. At some point those who have an alternative will claim the right not to pay it. Amongst the free market, which you have described, and the uncompromising state of your embassy and application, there is indeed the social state that has been implemented by social democracy. In conclusion, I would like you to think that from the point where you stopped your analysis, about why social democracy immediately after the war began and implemented the social state in Europe with the results it had, it has been many years and there have been developments both in modern social democracy and in socialism. When we talk about health systems, we should not forget that social democracy has actually implemented them and that it is still in favour of the creation of a social network, covering all citizens with uniform rules and uniform provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr. Barriotta. Mr. Aivatidis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. In the last half of the day, we have watched a homogeneity of speeches from various attendants and not in the Chamber against the Golden Dawn for the so-called glorious speech expressing the nationalist movement in Greece on the occasion of, of course, the speech of our Parliamentary Representative, Mr Christos Pappas. Finally, I think that the people that are watching come to a single conclusion, that the view I expressed this morning on political fundamentalism, expressed by the main ministers, is, in the end, extended to others in this Chamber. Indeed, the saying of the Chief of Golden Dawn, Nikolaos Michalliakos, that in the Greek Parliament there is Golden Dawn and the party of the parties of the falsified constitutional arch is absolutely accurate. In any case, Mrs Christodoulopoulos, following Mr Manta's words, attacked with indulgence - I think - the designations of the nationalist movement in Greece and I repeat that the people are fortunately watching and everyone is judged. These threats, of course, do not hurt us. We are trying to deal with politically the problem, because, as this argument develops, describing the nationalist movement of the Golden Dawn as a new Nazi formula or as a fascist motif or whatever, it is nothing but a typically splitting and intolerance speech, which is expressed by many of Parliament's wings. It is, in fact, a sad image and I can only refer to a post made by a person belonging to the anarchist autonomous space who said that blood will be spilled or blood can be spilled on Sunday at the rally. I ask a question: Are these attacks, which were done today unnecessarily - I repeat - against Golden Dawn, aimed at the Greek patriot, who will attend the rally on Sunday? Are they giving a moral backing to attacks on people who belong to the area of anarchism and are they, of course, related to Sunday's rally? I heard that SYRIZA - that, of course, is a case - is following a patriotic policy on the issue of Skopje, on the skeptic issue. A question arises: Is SYRIZA a patriotic movement? Do they not know what patriotism means? National sovereignty is assigned to the memorandum, and Macedonia's name is now assigned to some - the Skopje - who are also Slavs at a rate of about 60% to 65%, but are also Albanians 30% to 35%. So is the name of Macedonia assigned to the feathers of history, the Greekity of Macedonia? This, gentlemen of SYRIZA, is not patriotism. I'm sorry to say this, but since you're in favour of this position, you're not patriots. Do not invoke the patriotism of the Greeks. SYRIZA with this position is not a patriotic movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr. Aivatidis. Mr. Lambroulis has the floor. Mr Dessylas will then follow and close with the speakers, so that we can proceed with the voting process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. On the other hand, we would like to have two points to make on the amendments. That is why we have asked for the time of denial. As far as 1460 is concerned, we are voting in favour of it. We stand positive. As far as the supply of the units of the CEDEFOP, health centres, etc. is concerned, there is a possibility for them to be supplied by suppliers of hospitals. We have no objections. The issue is in the budgets, which are cut off. Of course, we agree with the payment of the suit allowance for the EKA's crew, but also with the third paragraph, which is about the molecular control. As far as the EMCDDA is concerned, why do we think that staff should be recruited rather than personnel transferred from or transferred from public bodies - the public in general, if you want - personnel to be exploited for the needs there, as well as personnel from the military, military doctors, who are abundant? Not at all! As far as Amendment No 1459 is concerned, we shall be voting 'at present'. There's a problem coming up here. It's three articles. We agree, for example, positively to the third-series article, as it is, for the supply of CEDEFOP medicinal products, that is to say, as the article says, cheaper to the cost of buying hospital medicinal products. We could have voted in favour here, if they were separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u217	That's finally broken. They got in as three articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u218	Good. So what I told you is true.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u219	Who broke?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u220	Amendment No 1459.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u221	No amendment has been broken, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u222	This amendment came as...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u223	Will the vote be taken uniformly or separately in this particular amendment? That's the question. Let's clarify it later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u224	They are Articles 4, 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u225	All right, we'll clarify them in the voting process. As far as Amendment 1456 is concerned, there is a presidential decree. A number of questions relating to specifications, etc. need to be harmonized. All right, we have no objection with regard to any specifications, to have all this data, to ensure that these units function as best as possible. Is the issue with the policy pursued, the spaces, the staff etc. will be ensured? That's the question. We are voting against Amendment No 1461. It's about the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction. Apart from the fact that we voted against the law and the particular arrangement, which comes to extend space in terms of setting up, if I am not mistaken, of the committee, what will it consider? How the unhealthy benefits of workers will be crumbled and seized. And I close, Mr President, in this way. Because a lot has been heard, the question we ask is: is health a social good today? And if it is social good, which, in your opinion, should be offered unreservedly to all of us all of a color, race, sex, age, etc., should be offered free of charge throughout the whole range of the possibilities offered by technology and science. Is this happening today in our country? Oh, no. And there was no collapse of the socialist system. It's overturned, Minister. These analyses should be done with better meditation, in our view. We, of course, have done analyses of the issues involved in the overthrow. And if you want, although neither space nor time allow it now, the fact that the overthrows have been made is that in the socialist production relationships they have gone to apply what? The laws of the capitalist market. Hey, you can't do that! Whether there's one or the other. But, in the health sector and not just, what did this system prove? That by working control and central planning of the economy the people can fully enjoy, throughout the range, health services: Prevention, rehabilitation, treatment, etc., without being deprived, without putting their hand in the pocket. Because today we are all aware that if you do not have to pay, you do not have services either in public or in public in part, which is traded with this policy that you are following and followed by the current government, like the previous ones, but also by a system which becomes more aggressive with regard to the rights of all workers, not only in our country, but also throughout the world, which constantly breaks down conquests and rights, and between them, of course, and health. Of course, you say that better efforts are being made. All right, but look at this subject and on the occasion of the donation we are discussing about "Evangelism". The Minister, Mr Paulakis, said some of the figures before, and said to the committee, say, say, say again and again. Yesterday, for example, I saw the meeting with the Hospital Doctors Federation the day before yesterday. They have raised issues, such as that in a short time - I am only saying - medical assistants will be fired, because their contract ends, their term of office, etc. So how is it going to be? In the 'Evangelism' seven of the TLPs are subsidiary and one is permanent. How's that gonna happen? We specifically referred to the committee and in my Surgery Proto­logy. He said Mr. Paulakis about the eight second-phase surgery, etc. He also said that for the three rooms of eight the equipment exists, i.e. surgical tables and whatever is required and will be installed or installed. The rest? We asked another question, why isn't it just doing these structures, which they need? Yeah, they need it, but it's how they're gonna be staffed and how these units are combined, and, in particular, the surgical rooms with the postoperative needs of patients, who have to do with staff, with infrastructures in ICUs and departments, clinics, with equivalent staff, etc. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Mr Dedes has asked for the floor, and then the Deputy Minister, Mr Paulakis, will close the sitting. Mr. Deed, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I see a group attack on social welfare issues at the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Dear Mrs Theanos Fotio. Our social state, as a government, over the last three years we have been running this place, not only has we maintained it on the one hand, but we have substantially increased its activity and not only on the issues of the Ministry of Health, Mr President, but also on the other issues that cover the welfare of the population, such as, for example, the school meals that have been extended and this year will be implemented in all schools. It's important what I'm telling you. The Greek society must know that, because it is not only, as the New Democracy and its representatives actually claim, when they get on the windows, a dish of food to the poor children. It's not like that. It's a social provision. Furthermore, the meal itself is not that it adds only a hot meal to schools, on the one hand, but also offers a consistency of children and socialization within school, because it is the slow food, which the child sits with other schoolmates at the table and eats rather than the fast food, which will get from the candle. This is a large part of it, and it needs to be understood and embraced by Greek society. The second and important thing is that we have increased by 50% the positions of nurseries throughout the country, even at a rapid pace over the last two years. Of course, we should certainly talk and say that during the vote and the budget debate last month too many tears were shed from Opposition and, in particular, from New Democracy, when it comes to depriving the government of funding from the State budget to the Ministry of Health. This is extreme untrue. The ministers have made that clear, but we have said it many times in this Chamber. The Greek people must understand that. What, in essence, ladies and gentlemen, the citizen enjoys as a guardian of the Ministry's care towards the Greek citizen, as far as health is concerned, is what it will finally take. That's not falling. Of course, there is this difference of EUR sixty million. However, this was essentially the case by the Ministry of Health, after the EOPYY, i.e. the ECA in the health system on the one hand and the hospital reserves, as I said in my prototype, when the draft law was being discussed today, because for the first time, for the first time, the balances of hospitals in the country have been balanced. So there's a housekeeping at this stage. Of course, you can say too much about health issues. As our parliamentary representative has said, we may be talking about these issues for days. Of course, they are huge issues and they are the ones that the people really need to know. In fact, the welfare and social welfare issues this government has taken special care of them. The Ministry of Health took most of the money, as did the Ministry of Labour through the Ministry of Social Security. However, I would like to say - and I am ending with this - that the concept of patriotism is more than enough in this Chamber, but also in Greek society as a whole. We all know that there is no specific level that measures this concept of patriotism. Sadly, however, there is too much patriocathenia. The place's over. Although our country is in an unrealistic period, during the memorial period and political events are too much and, in fact, it is much more than the Greek society can consume and a government can handle, despite these problems, this government is, in fact, the longest-lived one in the memorial period. However, the Greek people have to stand out for specific things. This government has decided in the programming declarations to bring all the issues forward. All this is now being implemented, even the hotshooting foreign policy issues. We are still calling for time and place, so that we can move as a government, solve all the problems and get rid of our term of office by the end of the four-year period. And we will solve these problems. The Greek people must know, however, that all these problems will be solved in a fair and just way. That is why we are basically going to the regions, to all the ministries and to create the development conferences. In fifteen days we have the conference in East Attica and we call on all parties to table their proposals for improving life, but also for the productive process in this region. For the first time, then, the ministers go to the place of interest and the various institutions do not knock on the door of the ministries. I would therefore like to add and conclude that we are voting in favour of the draft law in principle, of the articles and of the whole and we are voting in favour of the amendments, both parliamentary and ministerial, to facilitate and promote the work of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr. Deed. The Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Paulakis, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, if one excludes the black times with the challenges of the Golden Dawn, I think we have had a good debate today. On the occasion of Mr Kefaloniann's intervention on the issue of the conflicting systems and the ownership of the welfare state, and the reason why we should go, I believe that these words should be done, as they preserve Parliament's institutional and value. Because there really are ideas, perceptions, policies and so it has to be done. I feel the need to give some answers because I think that the issue of the bill with ratification of the convention meets the unanimous vote of the majority of Parliament. The Minister for Health, Mr. Xanthos, said a number of things, but I think there is a need for further clarification on both the ideological and political aspects of the next period. I will also give some specific answers to questions raised by Mr Amyras and Mr Bargiotas and others. It is obvious that after World War II the Western camp had to be confronted with the socialist camp. It was another time when we didn't live. None of us I see here were at the age of active participation in the commons of that time. But there was a revolutionary current for change in the world. Against this, the old world had to be confronted. And one of the ways he opposed, not only with military power and the Cold War, was also with the creation of a social state in a number of western countries, not all of them. The concept of a social state in the United States has never been practically, with the universality it took in several countries of Europe that were next to the enemy. The point is that in the course of time this thing, due to its management, began to produce deficits. And that was a global problem of capitalism. And then the Chicago School, which said that the social-democratic form of management, which directs resources to the social state, public health, public education, pensions, birth deficits, reduces the profit rate, reduces the legitimate goodwill of those who have the economic power of the world. And he set the line of reducing deficits, policies that would no longer rely on collective responsibility, but on the individual responsibility of each individual person to take over his or her health and education in order to free up resources. At the same time, there was strong competition between the various centres, the United States, Europe, Japan and China, following the fall of socialism, but also before, the central idea of which was the reduction of wage costs and non-wage labour costs. Non-wage labour costs were the social state, whose resources had to be taken from here and went on the other hand to stimulate investments, loans, maritime loans, increase the profit rate. That's where the Social Democracy pilgrimized, that's where he piled. And when social democracy began to bow to it - because that was now accelerating after the 1990s with the fall of the Wall and the symbolic fall of the socialist camp, since the essential had occurred earlier - there was no enemy, there was no adversary awe. So this thing has accelerated. The social democracies of Western Europe began to support these things in the 1990s and to take back a series of conquests - labour and popular conquests - of previous years, which were concessions and conquests, because this is the way history is written and by the movement of masses and by subjecting political leaderships to the moves made. That was the reality. And we arrived here where we arrived, because at the same time there was a counterproductive trend. In other words, while there was a trend that neoliberalism has made, imposed, ideologically, the media has moved it, it has strangled upper middle-stages in this direction, which said "I reduce wage costs, the most worthy of them will go on. And what do we do? There'll be a bottom in society. What can we do? So it is life, so society, not all of us are the same, it is not the DNA of all the same, inequality is law" - what we hear today - there was a counterproductive trend. The reality is shaped by both these opposing tendencies. And what was the reality? It was that there was a huge technological and scientific explosion, which essentially replaced the mental work or the technical skill of a health scientist from a machine, a technique, an advanced technological construction. That was a health product. This was produced by some businesses that wanted to maximize their profits. That was a reason why you wanted to cut off - and social democracy pilgrimized on it - and on the other hand, they had to win too. And that has led to the explosion of overprications throughout the entire Western world and not just in Greece. However, since we also had a Balkan capitalism here - with what we have received after the Civil War and others - and a client state, it has taken extreme forms, we have had an explosion in the overpricing of real spending, false spending and the super-profits of corruption and the para-economics in the health sector. This led here and we have shown that from the EUR 320 billion of public debt, EUR 85 billion, was from the health sector. This was a social contract managed by social democracy in Greece and you continued it. In the period after 2004 and 2009 you continued it, because it was an introductory - 'good' regulation of social alliances and election results. What was that arrangement? That I do not reward you for the value of your work, I do not reward you on the basis of what you have studied for so many years to become and reward you as a real living job, but I allow you to get "black" money from this health product, the overpriced one you use. That was the social contract. And he was taking more clamps. But this, along with others, went bankrupt the country. So the next day, the next phase after August 2018 cannot have a return to this social contract. We need another social contract. We want an alliance of the lowest social strata - what the crisis has thrown out of society, outside of the economy, out of life - together with a large section of medium-sized intellectuals, rural, youth, entrepreneurship, but that will be bound in another direction of this society, which obviously cannot be the neoliberal model of financial capitalism, 'all for shares, all for over-profits, reduction in wage costs', and clearly cannot be the social-democratic regulation of 'all, children, circumvent and make it'. We need to pay their actual heights and real values for living work, to invoice where the product needs to be, by reducing the profit rate - there is no other solution - and everything that is giving rise to the way. Fair growth includes - as Mr Xanthos said before - and this dimension, that goods should be distributed to majorities rather than to a closed or greater caste of customer relations and specific medium-sized strata, which, because of their position in production, can be proprietary to such a black social income, there must be a redistribution policy and we must organise a situation in which human needs are met on the basis of the level of science and technology in our time. That's the story. What did we do for two years? We went to balance a system that was in danger of breaking our hands. That's the reality. He was in danger of breaking our hands. He didn't dig, he's balanced, he's pressed, and now we're starting to build. I'm happy for what Mr. Amyras says and asks me, because two years ago this, which we talked about here, is that cancer patients don't have drugs, that the haemophiliacs don't have drugs, are missing from syringes to needles, etc. Did you see how these disappeared from the public image? That's not how it happened. It's through our backs. As to the fact that there are still problems, there are and will be in the health system, because it is huge the volume of services that it has to offer, but it has nothing to do with what is now in place, in January 2018, in October 2015. Absolutely nothing to do with it. First of all, what measure is the universal health coverage of uninsured health care? Confirmation and development of aggressive capitalism or a clear political choice to support the lower social strata, which the crisis has thrown into the margin? What other country in the world has done this thing? Obama went to cover a third of his poverty, and the universe dropped him, and he didn't make it and he went to get it, too, Trump back, but he can't take it. This is where we covered two and a half million people. Do you know what the big success is? The great success is that we have done so, we have covered two and a half million people with a small 'increase' of available money. We gave EUR 300 million more to the supply of the public health system than you had planned. I'm talking about the operation of public hospitals and health centres. We added two and a half million people, 25% of the Greek population. This alone is what a conclusion is? That the stealing has been reduced, you guys, or that thing wouldn't have happened. If we - I, Mr. Xanthos, hospital administrators etc. - We continued on some things that were happening in the past, they wouldn't have left out that money. Now they're abundant, though. That doesn't mean we totally hit her. I've said it many times: if this is the corruption pyramid, for two years now, balancing the system, we've reached it. This year we will arrive with the operation of the National Central Procurement Authority below and next year we will go further down. It still has thousands of bugs below - we know - but it had to balance the system and it balanced. We'll hit and go further. Of course, it is true that after August there must be another redistribution policy for staff, supported by the health system over the years. He has to see that his job is being rewarded for what he does, not for what he gets out of the back band, or he doesn't go into a case in which he's going to hit corruption and strife. We'll do that. More details on the course of time. Some specific answers now. Firstly, Mr Barriott, because I have said it a couple of fifteen times and so many more you say that you do not understand, I honestly speak to you - I will say another, sixteenth, soon - and we formally invite you together with Andreas Blonde one day to the Ministry to show you everything in slides and slides with concrete elements to stop this whole 'Hi-hui'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u230	Transparency is not the case. Announce them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Barriot, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u232	I am announcing them in press releases, my speech in the House. I told the budget. I gave it back on a press release. You may not read the sites that come out and read some others that don't make them. What am I supposed to do? It's not my fault. Just say two, three numbers. I'll tell you financial data from the BI, the hospital information system, 31-12-2017, about the hospital cash available.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u233	And December?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u234	December's paperwork was in place, too. Before, if you remember, we said the figures in October and November because they hadn't all been captured. Well, figures 31-12-2017: Outstanding liabilities up to 31-12-2017, that is, due and everything they bought until then, is 646.386.970m euros. That's the recording. Cashier available, i.e. cash in hospital accounts - not the Ministry, in hospitals - is EUR 908.590.611 million. That's the number. How much does that make us? From 908 million to 646 million. How much does it do? It's about 265 million. Let's go below: O.D., O.D.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u235	Minister, did you say the same number?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u236	I only referred to hospitals, not the U.S.S.A.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u237	I'll check it out. There's in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u238	Health regions, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, PEDY, these are other accounts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u239	Are these any other accounts?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u240	Of course. These are the hospitals. We said - hold the number -265 million net cash available from the hospitals. Let's go below, D.E.L.D., D.L.D., health districts. The outstanding liabilities up to 31-12-2017, that is to say, all due and not due 21,801,349,00 euros. Funds available again 31-12-2017 in the funds of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, PEDY, health regions, 119.536.137,00 euros. In other words, add about 265 million 99 million, you will take out 365, which is the net cash available from the hospitals and health regions of the country. This is where the collection from the claw back of the hospital drug is added. It's added here to this. And 150 million to 200 million are added. But I'm talking about what's there right now. Do we get it now? Result: 1-0. Let's go down for the assignments. I said in my speech about the budget at the time that ten thousand five hundred and five people had been recruited in the system. The thousands of thirty-five of the second stage of the OAED have now been added. Some doctors and some 7K have been hired. We've gone beyond the 12 thousand who've been on duty. Again in my speech on the budget, I said that there are seven thousand four people who were with complete notices and who were in the process of being appointed. We remove the thousands of thousands of thirty-five and about 200 people, who are doctors and other staff, who are to serve. And there are two thousand other people involved: a thousand five hundred sixty doctors, forty for the EKP coming out this week and another five hundred repetitions for the WMD. This sum of ten thousand five hundred I had said in the budget, seven thousand and two thousand is ten thousand sixteen thousand. The 12 million have been hired, the majority of them are complete notices, and the remaining two thousand are still being proclaimed. This will take place in the next few days, where the declaration for permanent doctors comes out. Did we get that, too? Result 2-0. We are going down here to say to this an objection to the amendment tabled by Mr Papadopoulos and Mr Mandas on the date has now changed the way in which the doctors' judgement is to be made. In other words, doctors of the same sort in different hospitals of the same health region will be examined together and rated in a series. There was a gap in law as to how far they could apply. The previous provision said ‘within 20 days of the IPA notification’. In order for everyone to go together and not to be confused with one region, etc., so we put this thing together, that, when we give the approval of a contract notice, we will say "until then" about these positions, let's say, surgeons for Chania, Heraklion, Agios Nikolaos. Until then you can submit applications to enter the single score. That is the point of this particular amendment. Also to answer some other issues more specifically...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u241	Minister, because you are talking for twenty minutes already, I understand that what you are saying is important, but I would ask you to be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u242	I won't talk. It is very simple to answer some questions from colleagues. You asked three questions, Mr. Defyras, about Florinna. It's called a position. There the problem was created not with design, but it was created because 'the ball sat', to say so. The principal resigned, took custody, or a pediatrician, did not go to the curator II who had been proclaimed. Right now we're covering it with doctors we're moving from other hospitals in the area. There are morning shifts of doctors with two doctors and there are afternoon shifts that cover inmates. Urgent incidents shall be served. What is to be nursed days aren't introduced, they go to Ptolemais which is fully equipped Paediatric Clinic. Night hospitals exist. We've decided and published. We also gave permission to get a subsidiary. We're waiting for a candidate. And we're giving positions. We will be proclaiming and positioning for director, and the approval has been given for the post of curator I to have such a function per post. That's what we can do right now. It's something that's extreme, and I told you before it turned out to be. We've taken action. There are three NSAID ambulances out there so they can carry everything else in a hospital about this matter you're talking about. Ptolemais pediatrician is fully manned and equipped. Secondly, for Calabaka it goes two days a week the pediatrician and the other days it helps at Trikala Hospital. I think that is a good thing for those colleagues who are also in health centres, since they want to do so, to offer their services to both the hospital and secondary care. And I don't think there's any child coverage left from around the area when the pediatrician goes there and tracks the regular work he has to do. Third, for Ikaria. Well, first of all there was a second study of the Artificial Nephrous Unit in Ikaria, because the first one practically sent us was inappropriate. Beyond the urban issues he had, and so on, he was talking about some things. It's over. It'll be there. The issue of the organization, which is considered an annex to the respective Samos unit, has also been resolved. We cover it all, i.e. we joined the EDP and the supply of the dialysis machinery and the armchairs. As a place is to be formed in the hospital, built, mechaniced down from the sanitary area that went there, studied them, because the first one they sent us, unfortunately, was not what they had to do - and the conversion of the area would be covered by the health care area's own resources. And that's going to move on. Also, I inform you that the Naxos Artificial Nebula Unit goes "ball". Eleven other people want to join beyond those who are currently serving there. And I'll also let you know that the same thing will happen at Cythera. That's why we're preparing the study for the space, we've got the space, and we've got the equipment all set up. We are very sensitive to this issue. We've proved it. We want to solve it, we solve it, we are in this direction. Also, let me inform you that at the Ikaria Hospital with the 2017 MIP, which is announced in February, it was sponsored with 250,000 euros to buy a sixteen-mile CT, which was really a problem there due to the isolation of the island. So I think we are really, as we have said many times, implementing another plan in the given context. That thing is clear. You'll tell me now - and I'll be done with it - about the PPPs and so on. Look, I made a mayor before, but we haven't learned to rule from our mother's belly. We're all learning. And when you have, like, servants, because in 2015 for the EDP, we didn't get a scent. We had another diabe then. We had to balance. In 2016, for nine months, the information we had from the service actors was that "Come on, but that doesn't have any money! So we put it.’ The EDP is national resources. Until we were called by the Treasury and we were asked: "Children, why don't you table a proposal? Why do you not deposit?’ And so we got 4 million in 2016, in the last one month, because we were told "this doesn't have any money". Last year they gave us 10 million and we incorporated them all 10, with S.H.I.E.L.D. all. That's what happened this year 20. And they won't stay 20, they will go any further, because already in January, in terms of feasibility and study, because now we have learned and gamble as far as we learn, we have 7 million since 20, when last year we had 3.4 million, and since August and after the rest, when we set up a mechanism to be able to hunt and pass all the steps of bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u243	Minister, you'll have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u244	This was the case with the reserve, which in previous years became a stumbling block. They did. In 2016 we gave 6 million and in 2017 we gave more than 11 because we found another hidden code. As long as you're looking, you find. And it became this thing, which is translated into specific fittings of machinery, infrastructure, etc. It is this story with the Attica Region and Mrs Duru, and we must thank her for this move. Two regions have done so, the Attica Region and the West Macedonia Region, Thodoros Karupidis, who have given from their own resources, not from the NSRF. From the N.S.S.A. have all given up. I think this year will be a great year at that level. There will be dozens to hundreds of interventions, already under way, declared or to be integrated, and I think we will be talking about another situation at the end of the year, in relation to this whole thing of renewal of infrastructure, in conjunction with all the donations and all that we are making use of in the direction I have described to you and at the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health is finalised: "Following the completion of the National Bank of Greece's Donation Convention in favour of the Greek State and the N.D. N.A. “The Evangelism - Ophthalmiario of Athens - Polyclical” and other provisions”. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u249	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u253	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u254	Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Health: "Structuring the Act of Completion of the Donation Convention of Greece in favour of the Greek State and the N.D.D. N.A. “The Evangelism – Athens Ophthalmium – Polyclimate” and other provisions” was accepted in principle by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u258	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u263	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1456 and a special number 106 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u267	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u268	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u272	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1456 and a specialist 106 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1459 and a specialist of 109 in its own right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u274	Mr President, I think it's wrong. We're talking about articles from the bill here. We are not talking about amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u275	1459 has been incorporated and has become three articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u276	So there are no amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u277	What we got at the end, the 1459, which has three individual applications, have become three individual articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u278	Mr Barriott, we are voting on the amendment at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u279	No, we are not voting on the amendment, Mr President. I think we don't understand then. I see here articles of the bill. There are no more amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u280	They were incorporated as articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u281	As an amendment, under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u282	Let us make that clear, because I do not understand. I see bill articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u283	Mr President, for this amendment and for the speech we and other colleagues, rapporteurs and speakers have made, because we have seen that it was three articles and that some parties or all parties have different voting positions on each of them, speaking and intervening, it has been said that it will be voted on as shared by us in the so-called 'innum'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u284	It's not incorporated as a separate article. We are voting separately on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u285	We are therefore voting for this amendment in a single way.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u286	Yeah. That's the way the briefing is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u287	How did you say before, "I'll...", "and anyway...".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u288	We are referring to the amendment under the general number 1459 and a specific 109.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u289	I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm interrupting now and I'm not used to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u290	No, you're helping the process. To God.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u291	Look, in particular. As far as we are concerned - possibly other parties - in an article of the three amendments we are in favour. I'm talking about an example.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u292	The amendment is adopted in a single way.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u293	We are voting uniformly, but it is not, for example, recorded in the Minutes that we are voting on. If we say it orally, it'll probably be seen by anyone who's overthrown. But whoever gets later will see that this party, in this amendment, voted on this article as a whole. Because the whole will look like it, not the article.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u294	I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u295	How's it going to happen? It's issues. I must testify to my opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u296	Welcome for the Minutes. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1459 and a specialist of 109 in its own right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u298	As long as it is uniform and there are no Articles 3, 4 and 5, we say 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u299	I'm sorry. It has been divided into articles: 3rd, 4th, 5th.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u300	I understand that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u301	It has not been separated into articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u302	I'm sorry, what we've received in our hands is what?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u303	In the "inn" they have been divided into articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u304	...and the text, how it will be published in the FEK.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u305	It's different issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u306	The FEC, that is what we say, Mr President, is not here. We're not going to solve this here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u307	Colleagues, there's no delusion. It is a procedural matter, and because we are drowning right now, we must finish it, we must leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u308	Yeah, but we should know what we're voting for.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u309	There's no point in it. There's no feasibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u310	It is a single amendment, Mr Foila.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u311	Mr. Fotella, there is no feasibility. There's no wickedness.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u312	I didn't say there was a purpose. I want to know what I'm voting for.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u313	You can vary from one article to another.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u314	We are voting in favour of the amendment, Mr Foila. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1459 and a specialist of 109 in its own right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u316	As long as we are voting for the amendment, we say 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u317	It is precisely the same reason that we say 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u318	Articles 3, 4, 5 ‘representations’.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u319	The amendment, Mr Aivatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u320	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u321	The amendment, as it goes into the vote, is 'present'. But, we're in favour of some articles. What can I tell you now? We've said it ten times. The same goes for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u324	No, but with the clarification Mr. Lambroulis made. I think we're all in this position.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u325	We would all like to vote on Article 5 and we cannot. I'm talking about the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u326	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u327	Article 5, which is the third article in the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u328	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u329	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1459 and a specialist of 109 has been accepted as it stands and is part of the draft law as the same articles. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1460 and a special number 110 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u331	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u332	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u333	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u335	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u337	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u338	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1460 and a special number 110 has been accepted as it stands and is part of the draft law as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1461 and a special number 111 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u340	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u341	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u342	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u343	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u346	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u347	Therefore, Amendment No 1461, and a special 111, has been accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 1462 and a specific 112 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u349	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u350	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u351	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u353	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u354	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u355	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u356	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1462 and a specialist 112 was accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1457 and a special 107 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u358	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u360	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u361	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u363	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u364	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u365	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1457 and a special 107 was accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 148 and a specialist of 108 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u367	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u368	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u369	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u370	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u372	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u373	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u374	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 148 and a specialist of 108 has been accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u378	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u381	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u383	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Structuring the Act of Completion of the Donation Convention of Greece in favour of the Greek State and the N.D. N.A. “The Evangelism – Ophthalmiario of Athens - Polyclical” and other provisions” was accepted in principle and in articles. Before entering the vote of the bill and the whole, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-seven students and students and three educational sessions of the General School of Woodkastro. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u387	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u392	Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Health: "Structuring the Act of Completion of the Donation Convention of Greece in favour of the Greek State and the N.D.D. N.A. “The Evangelism – Athens Ophthalmistry – Polyclimate” and other provisions” was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u393	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u394	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-01-S1-commons.u395	With the consent of the House at 14.58 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, February 2nd, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
