ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u3	Because there are two questions that I would say in terms of content are the same and the very many questions. To answer or take twice the time to each for all the questions or break them into two answers, which will cover a few questions to one and a few questions to the other, to cover the entire answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u4	Let the Bureau show goodwill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u5	After all, Mr. Jelloney, everyone will say their own arguments. It's not a matter. Also, I would ask you to respect time. The procedure has been followed up today in the House after, with immunity. To keep the process open, I would ask that we keep the time. We shall begin with the discussion of the fourth question by No 1624/8-5-2018, on the subject of the second question by MP Larisa of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Are you planning to increase the tax on bulk cigarettes from 57 minutes to 6 euros?'. Mr Barriotta, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, good morning. As you well know, Tyrnavos is an area based on winegrowing, winemaking and distillery. We are talking about a model of small producers, since they are the backbone, who live from the cultivation of the vine and from the crops of the vine. I think it was 7 of the month ago, a few days ago, when you visited the winery, a model cooperative unit of the few that exist in the country with that efficiency. Asked about the famous special tax on wine and its replacement by something else, you have, to the surprise of most people, linked the possible withdrawal of the tax on wine with the increase in the bulk of tsipouro, the tsipouro produced by these small growers I said earlier, the famous two-day or two-day, as they say in the local dialect, in fact, from EUR 0.57 to EUR 6 per litre. Such an increase would practically eliminate the distillation of two-days, destroy them financially and cause a great deal of trouble to small consumers, as the excise duty on wine has already done in small wineries, which have been hit more than anyone else from the unfortunate inspiration of imposing a tax on bottled wine. So we risk seeing the images that we see, like bulk wine in the people now, precisely because of the levying of taxes, and the tsipouro. In fact, we are at risk in tsipouro, the way in which the bulk of the product is marketed and marketed, to see pictures that remind us of banning if the tsipuro tax is increased in this acid way. So the question is, what is going to happen first with the excise duty on wine? The big problem for small wineries is the same excise duty on wine. As I have said before, there has been an unfortunate inspiration, which seems to be not even performing the envisaged ones. Every three and a little'repealed'. I have heard too many times your Deputy and you and many officials of your Government proclaim as imminent the abolition of the excise duty on wine. But it seems he's probably on the bells. The other question is whether there is any real plan to apply a new tax to tsipuro. In fact, with regard to what you mentioned at the winery, the surprise locally was that, first of all, your prefecture tried to convince us that you did not say what you said. Talk about make news. Unfortunately, however, you have said so and still circulate and are being prone to the region. I would like you to tell me which logic you connected one with the other. How is the withdrawal of a tax, the excise duty on wine, linked to the marketing and production of tsipouro? Why has this interface become? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u7	The Minister has the floor for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Colleague, I'm really surprised. You have now said about my visit to a winemaking plant the other day in the area. I didn't visit a winemaking unit the other day when I went to Tirnavo. Others said I told the meeting at the city council. Later they called and said that I told them at a little secret meeting. It was later said that 'he was allegedly saying'. Well, let me make it clear once again: it was not said from my side in my visit to Tyrnavo that phrase. But let me say that you are still generally ignoring the space. From what you are writing in your timely question, you seem to have no knowledge of space, especially on taxation issues. That is why I have to tell you and this House, of course, what is happening. I feel obliged to do so, not only because it concerns me, because of my responsibility, but because I serve the space. And when you serve an area, especially the rural one, with the image that is shaped and the problems that concern him, in fact, as Minister, whether you have or do not have authority, you have to deal with him. Well, I'll tell you what's going on today with the arrangements for the taxation of alcoholic products in our country. Taxation is in line with the provisions of the European Union. It is governed by Directives 92/83/EEC and 92/84/EEC, the provisions of which have been incorporated into our national law and provide for a tax of EUR 24 per litre. This is the result of harmonisation. We, of course, because ouzo is considered a traditional product, with the approval of the European Union, have calculated the tax and have been given the opportunity to reduce it to 50%, i.e. at 12 euros. This tax is currently in the ouzo. This tax, we extended it ourselves with Law 2960/2001 to the tsipouro and tsikoudia, produced by the organized distilleries. In other words, organised distilleries pay what the ouzo pays, or 12 euros. Of course, we have established for the small, the so-called 'daily's' to have the possibility of a special regime. I refer to EUR 0,57 per litre. However, the European Commission argues that the one provided for by Directive 92/83, which I mentioned earlier, is a reduced tax on ouzo must be interpreted only in this case, because it is a traditional product. Therefore, contrary to what is provided for in Union legislation, we have imposed, introduced a tax on tsipouro, tsikoudia, for distilleries and for two days different.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u9	Good, Minister. Keep something for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u10	You can take me away from my dentistry. So he comes in 2011 and 2013 and tells us that "that's what you did. We responded by letters, arguments, and the Commission comes with a reasoned opinion - for those who know what a reasoned opinion means - and tells us that 'in two months' - in 2015 was this - 'you need to take the necessary measures to amend the legislation so that both the tick and the tick and the tick are given the appropriate information'. The reasoned opinion means that we are on the way to European courts. What remains is the case. In my dentistry, I'll tell you more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u11	Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u12	I would first like to thank you for the wine tax system lecture. Let me tell you that I've grown up in Tirnavo and before I came here today with my friends on two days, my friends working at the winery, my friends, the wine growers, whom I grew up with, I talked to them and I know the problem, and I know what is going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u13	At the moment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u14	I will necessarily repeat the questions, because it is a good choice of status, but in the two main questions, what are you going to do with tsipouro and what are you going to do with the desert of excise duty on wine, which destroys small wineries, you have not answered, you have not even reached the answer. As to what you said, you are right. You didn't tell the winery. You've been on the city council. If I may be allowed by the President at the end and give me a minute, I'll have my computer heard the sound extract, which is and has been published.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u15	No, Mr. Colleague, put it in social media.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u16	I will instead table the transcript, which has been published in the newspaper and has not been disproved. Your reference to the increase - and you have now said so - in the same way is a given. First of all, you said, among other things, that, as far as the tax system is concerned, the tax should be increased in order to control smuggling. It's never been in the world before. When the tax rises and, indeed, sharply - from 0.57, I insist, at EUR 6 per litre - what we see is an increase in smuggling, whether it is wine, whether it is fuel or cigarettes. The increase in tax and, indeed, the irrational increase in a tax is the result of a specific one. As far as the bulk of tsipuro is concerned, it is different from the ouzo. You know it well, but you're confusing it in your speech and you, because everyone is doing it in everyday life, that it's ouzo and other tick. They are different products, they have a different production regime, a different legal status and, in particular, the ticket of small producers, the two-days, are a traditional product, which, like the grappa in Italy, has a special tax regime. You said a little - very much - that with what you say about a special court - let us see what the court will do - they should be taxed in the way the industrial production of ouzu is taxed, the industrial production of chipu from the large wineries. No relationship. The question and the agony has to do with the two days. There is a big problem and, if you want, there is a problem and a problem of quality and a guarantee of quality and smuggling and others. But the answer to that was not and cannot be the increase in taxation. The two-days themselves have tabled proposals, including an increase in taxation in the intervening period, but also calling for incentives. For the first time, Tyrnavos is an area, which is also a 'LEADER', to give an example. There you could have stimulated the creation of small distillation plants on traditional terms, ensuring the traditional and quantity, so that we can move on to a kind of processing of the traditionally upgraded product, which will also have quality control and quality control, as well as a system of tax advantages for small producers and exceptional qualities. Instead, however, we are starting to talk about tax tactics, which do not lead anywhere. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. So I learned from my friends in Tyrnavo yesterday that, apart from the debacle of feta, the programme to promote feta in third countries comes debacle in the relevant wine programme. The European Union's programme to promote wine production, wine, in third countries, is in the same way as the feta. So I repeat the two questions. Will you drop the tax on wine?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u17	It is clear, Mr Barriotta, that you have formulated them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u18	Will you do anything with the chip and what about the promotion programme in third countries? It is a good choice on tax terms, but we want political commitments and political responses.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor for two minutes, not more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, you see how easy time-consuming questions are turned into questions. I would like to insist on what I said to you, that we have a problem ahead of us, which adds to the OECD toolbox. You know that about the specific recommendation 17 that exists, which says that, especially for two-days, the bulk of tsipouro will either be moved by tax or will not be moved at all. That is why there is also the obligation of our country. You do not want to talk about them, but let me tell you that, when I visit areas as Minister of Agriculture and meet with representatives of the area, it makes sense to discuss them and we have to start discussing their problems. For us, I repeat, there is no such issue at this time either to the prerequisites or to our decisions, but from the time when others come and put it, the debate must take place. Why? For you too realise that organised distillers, who pay 12 euros tax at the same time invoke what will happen with the competition that exists with the others who pay 0.57 cents of tax. What about the smuggling of the celery that's there? I challenge you. Are you going to get into this when he comes? Because we have already decided that when the trial is set - because this is what this is about - we will of course also talk with you. What do you respond to these times that put this problem in? You do not answer or leave it, as did previous governments, especially the problems of rural areas. Because we have not only found debts in general, and have found fines, fiscal structures of more than EUR 3 billion, because of this behaviour. When there is a problem and we see it and we have to prepare ourselves, you start and falsify, 'He said it there, he didn't say it here, he said it further.' There's no question. Because I don't want to get away, you put the subject on the wine. It is a commitment that applies. It is true, of course, when conditions are created that will not cause us any problems. If you don't understand, you don't understand. I think this has also been understood by the space. Now, what can I tell you, for the winemakers, about the promotion? They have already been signed and many of the institutions have already entered this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u21	The 2017 programme has not begun.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u22	Please! So I insist, because we will discuss the matter you raised, we will consult. There is no way, when that time comes, that we have a decision that we will not have been consulted by all concerned and, of course, by you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u23	We move to the eighth under No. 1586/2-5-2018 topical question by MP Argolida of the Democratic Compromise of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Payment of allowances by ELGA for damages from the quarantine in November 2017’. Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this question has been tabled four or five times, and that is why we are now discussing the quartzfall in November 2017. However, on April 6, the Great Friday, we had a new quartzing in the wider area of the Municipality of Argos Mycenas from the area of Sterna, Airport, Dalanara and the entire wider area. Apricots, oranges, olives have been affected by the hail. So the question is very clear, without telling us what is going on in relation to the procedure: When will farmers receive their compensation for the hail in November 2017 and when will they receive their compensation for the Great Friday hail? That is the first question. Question No 2, by Mr Ephremidis Minister, since 2010 there has been legislation that lays down - and then the ministerial decision - the allowances of the ELGA. But now, over the last three to four years, we have been experiencing tragic consequences from the deterioration of climate change. More and more. Ice, hail, windstorms, rain, flooding. The second question, therefore, is exactly what you have done in front of the worsening crisis faced by farmers because of natural disasters due precisely to climate change, what financial tools of the European Union you have used and what legislative regulations and initiatives you have taken. Finally, Mr President, I will say something because it is now about all of Greece. Four days ago PPC decided...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u25	There is another question on that, Mr Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u26	Let me finish...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u27	There's a question below.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u28	...in my time. My question. He cut the power in the Argolida TWGs. It has therefore been cut by unilateral decision of PPC to all TWGs, to the almost 12,000 farmers of Argolida, the current. Why? Because it does not accept the well-known arrangement for years and we have this tragic phenomenon which will have social consequences, Mr President. In a TEI...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u29	We know the subject, there's a question below.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u30	Let me say a phrase, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u31	Time's up, what am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u32	Give me ten seconds. For Christ's sake! It is about the farmers in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u33	I know better, Mr Maniotis, but I do not have the power to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u34	So when one village has paid, but another has not paid for a number of reasons, farmers in the village that they have paid are also punished. I've talked to Mr. Stathakis too, and he has lifted his hands. Because you are the Minister with responsibility for protecting the rural world, I want you to tell me exactly what you are going to do about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u35	Please, there's another question here. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u36	On the one hand, you say that it is not my responsibility, and on the other hand, you say to answer. I would ask you to address the Minister responsible. We support, and we really are in a debate at this time to see how we are going to deal with the problem that many TEIs have with PPC in relation to PPC and find a solution. However, we must find such a solution that PPC can agree to stand up and continue to allow farmers to irrigate their land. That's not easy. I would like to remind you that in this particular activity the debts have flown from a long time ago and I stress this. But we are concerned and we are going to find a solution. Two. You got away again. While we have a question concerning certain damages, you have come to the recent damages of the Great Friday. And you agree that climate change does not let us calm down, unfortunately, not one day. But do you think it is so easy to talk about the effects of climate change on the rural area throughout the European Commission, to have a specific proposal? Let alone you know that these are damages that are not foreseen as insurance risks. We need to get into a process of proportionate studies. A committee has been set up. These are not matters that can be dealt with from one day to the next, and of course they are not matters for which we can take some initiative if we are not in agreement with the European Commission. Let's get these things straight, 'cause at some point we're taking these initiatives and then we're being beaten by the bell and they're saying, "What are you doing? These are violations of competition and a number of other issues. That is why we must be careful. I will now come to the issue you raised on the damages in November 2017. You have, of course, forgotten to say that there are also damages in June. For these damages in June, it seems that because there were payments, because there is a process that is being completed, you thought 'e now not to mention and the Minister said that the damage was paid'. So, for the damages in November, we are completing the proceedings. Three and a half thousand statements have been made. The notification of the findings has already begun and, of course, quickly - and I say to you that we may now, at the end of May, at the beginning of June, because we have a programme throughout Greece to pay for all these damages by the end of June - will also be paid for. However, I must remind you that payments of more than EUR 2 million have already been made in insurance against the previous damage. And of course, as far as the damage caused by the Great Friday is concerned, they are in the process of appreciation and will take their course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u37	Yes, sir. Here, Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u38	To make something clear, Minister, when you address Members, you will be aware that you are addressing people elected. Your answers will therefore have the due respect for those elected by the citizens. Answering and saying that for three and a half years you have done absolutely nothing to adapt any of your obligations to climate change is a confession of failure. Secondly, in order to get to know each other in this Chamber, your farmers have as a man who protects agricultural production. I did my job yesterday. I have asked Mr Stathakis to intervene in the TWGs, not to cut the electricity, much more when we have the objective event in front of us. If they don't grow, they won't be forever by PPC to get her money. We already have wrists. We already have huge damage to the apricot, since you know that day rather than day is to be watered. So let those other things, that's none of your business. It concerns you, too, to have water to water the farmer. And because you are a government that came under the slogan 'I do not pay' - because it was your slogan - I must tell you that you have to provide solutions with reasonable arrangements that farmers can withstand, as has been done all the previous years. PPC had never cut the power in TWGs so far. And there's always been a reasonable settlement. So here you come and tell us it's none of your business when a whole county is destroyed. And it's not just a county, all of Greece is destroyed, because you're following the same policy in other TWGs. So I want you, directly to tell us what your Government, and the Minister for Energy, will do, so that the farmers of Greece, the farmers of the Argolida TWGs, can get back in order to be able to pay back. Secondly, what will you do so that the payers who have normally paid with others cannot or do not want to pay? Because that is how you create social reflexes and civil strife in villages with political responsibility. And thirdly, what are you going to do to solve the huge problem of the ever worse climate change that has brought about such situations, with which all Europe is concerned, all Europe is being adapted and your government alone is doing that it does not understand that it has been responsible for the fates of the Greek people and the rural world over three and a half years? We therefore demand realistic, effective answers that will give hope and perspective to the rural world. You have misinterpreted them with the pensions you would have given them, and you have cut them both tax and insurance. Enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u39	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Maniotis, your populism really has no limits! I've known you for so many years and I couldn't imagine a man like you not just lying but invoking evidence that doesn't actually respond. We paid the ELGA compensation in seven to eight months, when the average was more than twelve months old and when we are at a time when the damages are repeated and we are trying as much as possible to satisfy the farmers, because we know they are in trouble. Secondly, you have not really dealt with your question at all and you have now started to raise one, two, three issues. We are concerned with the TWGs and we are already discussing this with them. But why don't you say that all these years there was the same situation and we came to a point where it no longer goes and we have to find a solution? That is what we are doing, that we give a solution that PPC will have an income from this process, and farmers will be able to use the opportunity to irrigate. You, who have been managing all these funds for so many years, know, as I said before, what have you inherited us? We're running the various packages with the cooperatives right now...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u41	You're cutting the power on the farmers. That's a nerve. You must be ashamed of yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Maniotis, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Maniatou, learn to respect. You don't respect the Minister. Please do not force me to speak in a way that does not conform to my character. Finally! You came here to pick up the pawn of revolution...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Maniatis, if there is no such respect, respect the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u45	I fully respect the procedure. The way the Minister speaks I do not respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Maniatou, be quiet! You don't have the floor. Sit down. It's over and over! You don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u47	Are you prepared here to create a situation? I came to answer your question. In fact, I have seen that some of the farmers have already been satisfied. Already there are procedures for the rest of us. And did you pick up my pawn that we destroyed the rural area? Honestly, do you know what was going on with the aid and the cooperatives in the past few years? Do you know what remained in this area, in which we are trying to find an organised group, and we cannot, because a mismanagement, a waste, has spread to the criminal limits, too? So please, if you really want to help the rural area, because it is necessary and we are making a great effort at this time. It's a lot of trouble. But - believe me - when was the management of aid in this area like today? Did you guys hear people say it's not paid in time, that we're not taking care of it? Why are you picking up a banner, how much more so, when we are in an hour when we are discussing problems of the common agricultural policy, we are discussing issues on which there must be a consensus, a common consensus that has already been reached on many issues, and you are now coming to pick up the rebel's banner?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u48	You're done, Minister. This is where we lack decency, we are also looking for harmony! We proceed to the joint debate on the ninth with number 1608/7-5-2018, a topical question from the Parliamentary Serres of the New Democracy. Fotinis Arabatzis, to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "First crisis in Greek ovine and caprine animals" and the third with number 4699-26-2018 question from the circle of petitions and questions of the Deputy Serres of the Democratic Association of the PASOK - DMAR Mr Michael Jeleighis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The farming in an emergency". Mrs. Arabatzi will have the floor for two minutes and for two minutes Mr. Jellonis. Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Following the previous question, I cannot, of course, comment on the fact that the transparent preachers, his advocates, 'I do not pay' from the most official lips, are today cutting off the current in the TWGs, not because they refuse to pay, but because they cannot respond to the 12 wonderful doses. Minister, we are discussing today, after three postponements - Mr. Tsironis knows about this - the crucial issue of the captivity, the unprecedented crisis in the Greek sheep and goat farming, which we have been calling and beating you the bell for a year, trying to convince you of the fire that burns and dissolves the productive tissue of the country, both in the manufacturing and the primary sector. And not by chance, I say that we are trying to convince you, because, Minister, if there were no case for the case, the fiasco last week with the loss of the deadline for the conclusion of the feta, EUR 5.2 million of Community participation, you would not come out after the carotidisation of the ELDR members, who you are of course supervising, you would obviously not be able to hold a press conference and say, at last, that we are experiencing a crisis in the dairy sector. Obviously, you would not be able to come out - as if you were to announce measures of shielding the industry, which, of course, with your policies, actions and omissions, is on the edge of the cliff. And it is on the edge of the cliff, Minister, on the one hand, the rapid drop in the prices of milk-0,75 sheep, 0,48 gilt, at a cost of production of at least 0,90 - on the other - and that is the most serious - of the unwillingness of the processing companies to obtain milk from small farms, in an uncontrolled market of salt, milk which is the main component of the survival of these farms. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing.]] I'm going to need your tolerance, Mr. President. You must finally be shocked by the fact that these farmers, the bio-paulders, Mr Minister, of the three hundred and sixty-five days' work a year, those who keep the remote villages, the Greek countryside, are begging and begging not for the price of milk now, but begging and begging for the companies to take the milk because they are getting the ice cream. The reason for the collapse, of course, of the total lack of controls by the ELGO and uncontrolled milk imports and the Greekisation party. At the same time, you until first said that the checks of the ELGO did not result in the use of imported milk...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Arabatzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u51	I shall conclude, Mr President. Of course, soon after the President of the ELGO had come out - the one you did - Mr Karetsos said to the Thessaly channel that there is a fraudulent conversion of white cheese into feta cheese. Minister, because this is a very serious issue, and it is about eighty thousand farmers, thirteen million livestock which leads to arable slaughter and divestment, which specific measures will be taken...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u52	You're done, Mrs. Arabaji. Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u53	...and with what specific timetable...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u54	There's your colleague, Mrs. Arabaji, to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Jellonis will also speak, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u56	I gave you twice as much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u57	Yeah, you gave him to me. But we have been waiting for three months to discuss this question, Mr President. People are waiting to hear. It's a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u58	The Rules of Procedure do not say that time is with the month! Mr. Jellonis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Things in Greek livestock have never been ideal. But today Greek stockfarming is before the gates of destruction. I would like, Minister, to mention a number of issues that the Greek sheep and goat farming faces in order to understand that the measures you have announced are of doubtful effectiveness. The situation is dramatic, tragic, and even the farmers are despair and impoverishment. Greek livestock production is unprotected in the undeclared war between milk-industrials and merchants. Most are ruthless for the purpose of temporary gain. Open sales prices without contracts, open imports without any controls, repayment when the dealer wants. They don't even keep what you said from the thirty days of the sixty days. On the other hand, producers are cutting invoices and paying VAT. You understand what that means. Inconsistent with the lack of control mechanisms, they operate with unfair practices of Hellenism, fraud and misleading the consumer. With disguised enthusiasm, they underestimate, blackmail and impoverish at the expense of livestock production and farmers, really acting as a cartel. Whoever reacts, they don't take their milk, instead they take their icebergs. So we have a collapse of prices in sheep and goat milk and you know it very well. At the moment the price from 1,10 is 0,60 and 0.50 and the spice from 0,60 to 0,33, while the prices on the shelf are 2,8 euros per litre. On the other hand, we have a series of announcements from you and measures. Neither little nor much with the answer you sent me on 9 May did you tell me that everything is going well, like what our farmers say "with the sun they put them, with the sun they take them off, what have the sprouts and they die?" You're looking to see what you're going to do. You have now announced a number of measures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Consider that, on the other hand, we also have excessive taxation, direct and indirect, excessive insurance contributions, high loan levels, and animal feed prices, fuels and any kind of uncontrollable supply. That is why, in fact, the measures should be targeted. I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. So I ask you what these measures will be for the immediate economic relief of farmers, because you understand that Greek livestock is a key economic factor for social cohesion in the Greek region and it is particularly needed in mountain and disadvantaged areas, where it is active, to support the Greek farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u60	Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, you have described a situation inviting me to deal with it. And I, because you didn't say how to deal with her, I'll tell you how and where we can. First of all, should we impose bans on the import of milk from countries in the European Union or from third countries? That is certainly not possible. With the States of the European Union and countries - third countries with which we have signed relevant agreements, we are obliged to accept it and, of course, to treat it at the end of the day. This is Union legislation, that is national legislation. As far as the quantities of milk imported are concerned, what we can see is whether they are safe if they are processed through safety and hygiene procedures. From there on, there's nothing else. There is the question of the use of Greek sheep and goat milk in the production of feta. At this point the feta is found on the Greek market, the feta exported from Greek sheep and goat milk. Be careful, because with your tactics you are going to create a problem in a product that is the flag of the European Union's geographical indications. At the same time I say this because all the evidence shows that the milk used by the industries, which produce slices of Greek ovine and caprine sheep, is more than what is needed to produce the particular feta. Don't play any more with the feta. Say there's a pressure on prices? Of course I agree that there is pressure on prices. So, what does the Minister do? Intervening in price formation? Can you imagine that such a move on the part of the Minister will not be accompanied in the second by a corresponding intervention by either the Competition Committee of the European Union or the National Competition Committee of Greece? So you do not agree with either. What is going on over there as far as the controls are concerned? Listen, let's get these things straight. For the production of feta there was indeed an obligation and control over the use of ovine and caprine milk. From there on, in coming sheep and goat milk for other uses than industries, from the cheese shops, etc., there was no such possibility of interfering with and preventing. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] What have we done, that you've really ignored, and that's where we're making a big effort? We voted on Law 4492/2017 on the compulsory registration of the milk and milk product country. Please listen to me and do not misinterpret. It is a decision which we have made not only, but also another two - three countries, with a great deal of effort, to support their dairy sector. Is Greece the Greek sheep and goatmeat or cow milk? Indicate as a milking country ‘Greece’. Is it from a European Union country? ‘European Union’ shall be indicated as the country of aggregation. Is it from third countries? Indicate as ‘third country’ the alphabetical country. These are the three markings which are used by other countries. Why? Because in this process we have also given the possibility not only of the PDO product feta, which, in any case, was a PDO product, because otherwise it would not be PDO and was controlled. The compulsory registration has now been extended to all milk, which you realise is very important to the area, because the Greek consumer is aware of what it is Greek, where it comes from and, at the same time, will prefer it, because quality is better than the milk in question. The crisis has indeed existed since 2015 in the dairy sector because of the liberalisation of quotas. You need to see them and how they form at European Union level. That's where we're going from. It's just that there's a big crisis. Millions of tonnes of milk in northern countries have already been turned into dust or stored. You realise that this whole thing is pressing on the dairy sector, and this sector is being pressed on in Greece too. What did we do? None of you mentioned this. Did you see with the coupled support this year how we got to a point where we had up to EUR 9.7 in ovine and caprine animals and around EUR 140-150 - I do not remember exactly - for cows? This intervention, which is essentially doubling the associated aid, as from 43 to 44 million euros have reached 87 million euros, is not a relief at this time for the industry? Of course, in my dentext I will tell you more about the measures and what we are planning the most, especially in order to dismantle at this point the large stocks that are available in terms of feta.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u62	Mrs. Arabaji has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u63	Mr Minister, you probably do not want to understand what we are asking you to do, why do you say: 'Let us impose bans on milk?' Who said that, Minister? Do checks that will effectively certify that the milk used in our PDO products, in the krone, which is the Greek feta, is Greek. That is what we ask of you, Minister, that is to say checks. In fact, we're not just asking you here to stand up for you. You have three letters to your Ministry for a year from the Panhellenic Federation of Farmers, with which you are hitting the alarm and talking about the "Photo ELGO" for the absence of controls, for the price collapse, for which this poor control exercise by your Ministry is responsible. Are you aware, Minister, that the "ELGO - DIMITRA" that you recently caratomatized has been depreciated from staff and other services commitments, while the opposite has to be done? Do you bear in mind that in our recent governance, fifty, sixty people were recruited exclusively for audits, eight-month contracts and, in your day, exactly zero? Do you bear in mind that since 14 September 2017 you have been sent a request from the ELGO to send in the context of the mobility necessary, why are the services not staffed and not audited? What do you say, Minister, in all this? Because these are the crucial questions. There is the source of the evil and the source of the problem, of course, in conjunction with the existing policies, with the social security contributions which are a second tax, with the reduction of production costs, with the 1/3 that you have paid for the compensatory allowance, in order to share it with you, that is, a little to everyone, and not the most important beneficiaries of mountainous and disadvantaged regions. Minister, you mentioned nothing about the non-organisation of the 'Interprofessional Organisation for Feta'. You didn't say anything about it. So what organization are we talking about? We are talking about the most important instrument that can be taken seriously and represent our country internationally in international agreements, the instrument which can be self-control of the production chain in relation to PDO products, as is done in France and Italy with their respective PDO products. That is why for a year you have two applications - filed at your Ministry and not licensed, when the same law you answer to those who want to do interprofessional, says that within four months you have to do the check to answer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So why, Minister, do you not control the dossiers of this necessary body, in order to see who meets the conditions and to authorize it, so that it can function effectively in this lot, in this scourge of lack of control over Greekism and all that is being done?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u64	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u65	I'm hanging up, Minister. You have also in mind, Minister, that the money paid by processors and farmers - around EUR 4.5 million each year - from the contribution to the ELGO, is the 'fashioned and fierce' that your Government has spent on a Varoufakis minister, while it should be made available to the checks due to the returnable nature. I'm closing, Minister, saying the last one. You spoke about the related aid. Yes, Minister, the one decided by the previous government, with the trunk of the New Democracy, to provide related aid to sheep and goat milk and your distorted management of the 2015 balancing resulted in the remaining balances to be left, which would be returned to the European Union. And now you run panicky to share it and not all the farmers, the related one, half to share.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u66	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u67	And for the Minister to give us an answer, Mr President, to refuse to vote for the SYRIZA MEPs at a hundred and twenty-one measure to support ovine and caprine animals on 3 May 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Jellonis has the floor
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'm really surprised. The ovine and caprine animals are being destroyed and you give me the impression that you have not understood the problem. You have not understood this and this is reflected in the measures you have announced. If you want, I will also tell you a number of measures that you need to implement to save sheep and goats. You come here and say that we cannot interfere with the prices, that everything is going well in relation to the balances, that we will carry out checks with the "ELGO - DIMITRA". Which "ELGO"? The one who can't make a contract and the 6.5 million lost to promote the feta? You have responsibilities there. Four extensions have taken you to wake up and dismantle the board. We will also see from the point of view of the companies, the 'SOPEXA' and the other, because the programme has been lost there. You don't have any staff. I'm asking too. The government over the three years has increased civil servants by twenty - one thousand four hundred. Have you made a request to get employees, veterinarians, auditors at the "ELGO - DIMITRA"? No request. We now arrive on the other side, and as if you have awakened, that in the last three decades it has been the worst period of livestock farming in our country. Since November we have a series of contracts for selling slices to 4,30 euros pounds abroad. The bells are ringing. What have you guys done? Pound 4,30 euros in foreign supermarket contracts with big companies in our country. Do you know what that means when it takes four pounds of milk to make a pound of feta? What do they do with that milk? On the other hand, we have repeatedly said that you have not understood the following. You have removed the farmers, the farmers through their own institutions, from the ELGA from "ELGO - DIMITRA". Today, yesterday, you appointed new management boards. Why didn't you change that law and put the farmers inside, even if you understand the problem? If you don't understand the problem, you can't make a good strategy. I come now and tell you a series of measures. Because what you announced, thirteen meters, they do not touch producers directly, they cannot survive. Let me not describe them regardless of the problem the farmers are experiencing today. You have said nothing about harmonised practices and the functioning of competition. What did you do about all this? On the other hand, do you intend to take measures so that they do not have the right to import sheep and goat milk industries producing PDO products? Come on in. It's a proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u70	Where did you get that thing? Why, indeed, do you know what is going on in the European Union? What are these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u71	You'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u72	You'll have the floor in a minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u73	In order to have a catastrophe to ovine and caprine animals, it is forbidden in PDO-producing industries to import milk. On the other hand, you didn't want proposals? We'll do it to you. Do you have the courage to bring them in to save ovine and caprine animals? Now give producers, ovine and caprine farmers direct support. Use de minimis to get a financial relief. They need her here and now. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I said that the farmers were involved in the ELGAK. The infringements and the fines you put in the announcements should be one and the other. Industry, which will be controlled by either the "ELGO - DIMITRA" or the EFET, and will cause fraud in the manufacture of PDO products to be closed. There's no other way to save ovine and caprine animals.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u74	Time's up, Mr. Jeleigh.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, a lot could be said, but you are depriving us of time. The Minister spoke twice a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u76	By mistake, I put half the year before. You know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u77	Wrong. He had twice as much time. Six minutes he spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u78	He had six minutes. Six minutes says the Rules of Procedure. If you don't know, please don't make any designations. Please, Mr. Jelloney! Well, hang up now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u79	I close by saying and making a proposal, Minister, to have time to discuss it: to convene the Committee on Production and Trade and to take all parties a position on proposals and codecision on a national plan, how to save sheep and goat farming in the country. Because it seems that you do not have the possibility, you do not have the ability, you do not know the object and you are driving livestock, unfortunately, at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u80	You're done, Mr. Jelloney. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being held from the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks is organised and operated, forty-one students and two teachers, from the 5th Municipal School of Gerakas. The House welcomes you [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, let us really see how we need to help and, of course, to put ourselves in concrete proposals on the ground. Mr Jellée, frankly, I have heard only one proposal from you, this ban on processing plants producing feta-producing ovine and caprine milk. There's no such possibility. In this case it is much more stringent in terms of the use of Greek ovine and caprine animals for the production of feta. From there on, we can't, there's no possibility. Now to begin to describe what is happening with the Competition Committee. There isn't! Secondly, you said about the de minimis administration. It is easy to say this, to say 'de minimis', when we are already watching the area with the related aids, which I told you earlier, and have given a quite large amount compared to the previous year.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u82	Halfway through.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u83	From there on, allow me, because what does this use of the term de minimis mean? ‘De minimis’ means a state budget, means approval procedures by the European Commission. It is not just a matter of things, then the Minister de minimis made a decision, and if there are any possibilities and if it is adopted. These are all issues that concern us. This is not the time to assess a loss of income, which is indeed there, so that we can see how to support it. We are now supporting them to be able to fulfil their operational obligations and from there on we are seeing. Everything else is open. You said, Mrs. Arabatzi, about the interprofessional organization. I've made it clear in all directions. As far as the interprofessional organization is concerned, it is incomprehensible that what is happening within an area which has a problem, that we have others from here. In fact, there's a lot of peculiarities. The one you say you don't recognize, has orders...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u84	We did not mention that we did not recognize.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u85	Well, now we know each other. It's not like that now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u86	In four months you were required to authorize anyone who has the prerequisites. You obviously want to get some of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u87	It is not at the same time possible to have organised groups, one to curse each other and coexist in an inter-professional organization, when the need for the space is one. Because in all activities throughout Europe, all other activities in Greece in products, there is one in each product.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u88	Check the files.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u89	So what did you do? Listen to what you've done. I had gone to Larissa, I met all the farmers from all sides, and somewhere, so we agreed to have a meeting here at the Ministry, to see how the requests that were made will be withdrawn, to make a joint proposal. And we've decided that thing. We made up our minds. By the end of June we expect a common proposal to come after the withdrawal of the two proposals. And while we agreed, the next day you were in Larissa with Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Mitsotakis told them: 'I will make you interprofessional'. There's no way, because there's no way Mr. Mitsotakis will come. But what further answers are these, in an area that we absolutely want to have? Because you yourself have in your question about the 2014 regulation that provides for these 2 million, that in order to get this money, if there is not the partner entity to submit the request, there is no possibility, and in this case especially for the area because organisationally is not supposed to be the way it should be, we hoped that with the interprofessional we would answer the question. I'll wait until the end of May. If their proposal does not come, we will see as a ministry what initiative we will take, of course, not to impose something that the farmers, the cheese farmers themselves, can impose. Now about the controls we've been through before. We have tabled specific proposals. I won't mention them, you know them. I don't have the time. What I'm telling you is that I agree with you about the staff. There's a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u90	You're the ones who say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u91	So we have done procedures, and at the outset we have contacted the Ministry of Finance, to exclude the staff who carry out checks from the sixty days to the outside. We've asked to get personal. From there on...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u92	Why don't you use the reserves, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u93	We have already tabled an amendment to make sanctions more stringent and we are preparing an annual national milk control programme. What is important at this time is to see how we will strengthen the Greek trade mark more. I believe that this regulation will begin to walk, which started on 19 April. You realize that these are not easy from day to day. What I want to say once again is that, in particular, we will see how much the stock is. We have already made a design, which provides that about a thousand tonnes will be absorbed as quickly as possible to provide a relief through actions and withdrawals of a social character. The decision is now being prepared. And because I do not want to leave what you have said about the GAP - you have tabled a question for a debate in the Committee on Production and Trade - to know that the Committee on Production and Trade is holding much more meetings of character like the one we in the agricultural sector than any other activity. We've already done too much. We will finish because the procedure for the new GAP has not been completed. We were told that the numbers were 3.4% or 8% to 9%. The treatment shows that the numbers are worse. That doesn't mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u94	You have to let us know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u95	Listen to me, please. We are really doing a great deal of work, and we really want to be together. In committee, when we met on this matter, I told you that we would have time to have this debate on the road to integration. Whew and alas. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Of course, we have no problem, Mr Jelloney, as long as we do not go to the committee on a regular basis, like the ones we are experiencing in plenary. Because with us this is the case: in committee, we are discussing nice and nice proposals and when we come to plenary there is a predominant logic. Please very much, because the space cannot last, especially meetings and meetings like the previous one. I too, Mr President, if I got away a little bit, I sincerely apologise.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Minister. Colleagues, the second with number 1672/21-5-2018, a timely question for the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Interior, on the subject: "Anti-nuclear preparation of the country ahead of the summer season", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Also, the first with number 1673/21-5-2018 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, New Democracy, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Problems in the Roma camp of Patras", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Furthermore, the fifth under No. 1638/15-2018 topical question of the second Athens Parliamentary I, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "In despair, the residents of the Exarchites, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Also, the sixth Question No 1628/11-5-2018 topical question by the Independent MEP 2, Eftathiou (State) Panagoulis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Criminality and all kinds of attacks by sub-world people and fork rebels", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The seventh question, number 1609/7-5-2018, topical question by MP Larissa of the New Democracy, Maximos Charakopoulos, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "A Letter of protest and despair residents of the Exarches", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Finally, the tenth Question No 1615/8-5-2018 on the second question of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Eve Christophilopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Nine tolerance of the residents of the Exarchates in the inadequacy of a dangerous situation in the region", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The second question will be discussed with number 4391/15-2018 question by the Member of Parliament's Rodopi of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Statute of the adorable form of slaughter of small and large ruminants during the Muslim religious festival 'Kurman Bayram' in the region of East Macedonia and Thrace'. Mr. Ahmet, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we had asked you a question, because the Muslim minority for fifty, sixty, seventy years, celebrates its biggest celebration, the Kurman Bayram. You know that during this Bairamum some religious, adorable slaughters are carried out on animals. In fact, the Legal Council of the State in 2017 gave an opinion - and I write it to you in the question - that "according to the customs of their religion, these massacres are exceptionally permitted". You know very well from your Ministry that for 50 years from all governments - exceptionally, respecting the customs and customs of this religious minority - decisions were sent to the competent body, which said that animals should first be removed from the register with the code'religious slaughter' and otherwise this possibility was given to them, so that these people could do so. You, for a year now, did not erase all those animals that were slaughtered last year in this way. There has never been any information to farmers then, who have been surprised and are in danger of losing their subsidies. Secondly and more serious, you answer the written question - and I want clarification here - and you say that according to national legislation this is not going to happen and you say that animals will normally be slaughtered in slaughterhouses. We do not object to this being done, but since there is no chalk line, according to religious customs and customs, how can an animal be slaughtered, according to the customs and traditions of the Muslims in a municipal slaughterhouse and, indeed, when the Sapphi slaughterhouse is not working? We also ask you in our question how you intend to deal with this matter. So we're sending a veterinarian from your service to the slaughterhouses we've been doing these three or four days? We first want to ensure the health of our fellow citizens. Of course, you know that these meats were intended for diet and distribution to the poor, but we still want to have control. But when the entire slaughterhouse - i.e. the municipal slaughterhouses of Komotini or Xanthi - fails to respond to these massacres, what solution will you propose? It is clear from your answer - and I would like you to reply quite clearly here - that this will never happen. There is a great excitement in the region, because in this way, Minister, the religious freedom of the minority is blatantly violated in terms of its customs and customs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u98	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. I think that the answer we gave in writing is clear and I think it is particularly favourable to religious traditions, which we fully respect. In particular, in the whole institutional framework, which was even specialised in 2014 by the previous government, which we refer to you in the Rules of Procedure - and I am referring specifically to making it easier, in recent Law 4235/2014 - the conditions under which religious massacres are carried out are explicitly mentioned. The 2009 European Regulation states explicitly that, according to this exception, which already existed since 1996 with a Presidential Decree in Greece - but in 2009 the European Regulation came and validates it - the only and self-evident condition is that these massacres are carried out in a slaughterhouse. As far as I know, in the region of East Macedonia and Thrace there are 'halal' slaughterhouses, which I know very well that they are also exporting to the neighbouring country, Turkey, and I do not know if they are doing anything else. I don't care about that thing. The question was raised by some specific organizations, that religious massacres are illegal in Greece. It was a crisis that we had last year, which started in individual cases. I personally went to the Legal Council of State and asked exactly that, if the religious massacres in Greece are legal, on the basis of the existing institutional framework. Indeed, the Legal Council of State rightly said that this framework for religious massacres in Greece, which starts with the 1996 Presidential Decree, the 2009 European Regulation and the 2014 Law, which sets out the technical conditions for making religious slaughter, is sufficient. That's what the Council of State said. As to the deletion of animals, it is clear that, to erase an animal, three things can happen. To be sold - that applies to everyone, there is an absolute isology in Greece - to be deleted due to sale or to be deleted from the farmer concerned, because of death or to be slaughtered. If, therefore, the animal goes to the slaughterhouse, the presumption to be deleted is the slaughter, which is certified by that slaughterhouse. I do not understand in the question what you mean 'if the slaughterhouse is not working'. If you say that, then it violates the European Rules of Procedure and it is not up to me. Animals slaughtered outside slaughterhouses, erased and legalized? How can this be done and how can the Ministry intervene in such a question? I put it to you, too, to explain in your second speech if you imply animals slaughtered outside slaughterhouses to be erased and how I can intervene in this thing, which is flagrant illegality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Ahmet, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u101	Thank you. Minister, first of all you referred to Mr.4235/2014, who indeed has conditions for religious slaughter. Right. Be careful, however,: it has not been implemented and there is no implementation in the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace - I do not know what is going on in Athens or elsewhere - a 'halal' line. What the law says, there is no religious slaughter, Mr. Minister, in particular, either in Xanthi or in Rhodope. There are no formal requirements. We ask the state and the ministry. Is this line going to happen? Will the municipalities be strengthened? Will the financial inadequacies, the financial potential of your Ministry of Interior or your Ministry be provided to create this? Do we have time to do this? The fact that the law provides for a procedure for legal religious slaughter does not mean that this can be done. What are the practical consequences? So that's not it. You asked about the slaughter or deletion of animals. The previous governments and all the ministers are outlawed? Of course not. The Legislative Council of State has given an opinion, which you do not read well - and I apologise for what I am saying - that, exceptionally, it may be possible by decision of the Ministry with the code of "religious slaughter" to delete these animals legally. The European Commission has no objections, Mr Minister, to delete these. The question of doing so in the European Commission too and you will see that it does not exist. You have not been interested in this since last year in Kurban Bayram. At the moment, you have allowed the fate of these people to lose their subsidies. I've been bothered by these people. The most painful and ugly is what will happen after three months. Today, Muslims have 'ramadan', that is to say in a calendar in three months we have 'Kurban Bayram'. What will thousands of my fellow citizens do in Thrace? Where will their animals be slaughtered? They can't be in the town slaughterhouses of Komotini, Minister. Do you understand? It can't be done in Xanthi. You must immediately find a solution and answer what these people will do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u102	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. I think you have avoided what I asked you to say, in other words if you imply that animals which were slaughtered outside the slaughterhouse will be deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u104	It's not illegal, Minister. Don't be afraid.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u105	Are we talking about animals slaughtered outside the slaughterhouse? Because if they are animals slaughtered outside the slaughterhouse, the European Union's exemption regulation is express. It mentions the religious exception and expressly states that this exemption means animals slaughtered in the slaughterhouse. In eastern Macedonia - Thrace, I know, because I have also spoken with people, that not only are there slaughterhouses slaughtering hail lines, which the mufter there validates - because it is a religious act and is validated by the muft - but, I say again, I have in my hands and export invoices. I do not have them in my hands to make it difficult for people to live there, which I fully respect and respect their religious consciences, but for the very simple reason that these papers were needed to prove that this activity was actually taking place last year at the Legal Council of State, which actually existed. From there on, these lines only need, as far as I know, - and I am not now in religious terms, because I really am not an absolute knowledgeer, I am a Christian - are in this line no more animals, which are incompatible with your religious beliefs, such as pigs, that is to say, pure line and separate, and all it takes is, the muft to certify the man who will make the slaughter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u106	Certification of ‘hall’.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u107	From there on, whether these slaughterhouses are private or they're municipal, you realize that it's impossible for the state to enter into the question of whether a slaughterhouse has a "halal" line or not. How can this state do it? How can you ask the Greek state and the central state and not the decentralised state, as you say yourself about municipal slaughterhouses? So in the municipality. So let's say Caesar's Caesar's. I cannot force a municipal slaughterhouse to have a 'hala' line nor to impose a private slaughterhouse, much more, on a 'hala' line. I do not understand, in other words, at the moment what the state has blocked and I do not understand your question. The animal that goes to a slaughterhouse - and it must go to a slaughterhouse, that and you do not question it - is normally deleted. There is a full regulation on this and there is no closure. If you're talking about animals slaughtered outside the slaughterhouse, yes, there's a problem, but that's what I can't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-four students and an officer from the School of Nursing Officers. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We now go to the fifth, with number 1652/15-2018, a timely question for the first cycle of the MEP Pella of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Sahinides to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "They continue to remain unpaid." Here, Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. The topical and urgent debate is that the producers continue to be unpaid. The delay in the repayment of the shipyards by the Greek Sakhari industry was disastrous for the primary production sector, and even the risk, which unfortunately took place, was to lose this year's crop production, because the debts of the Greek Sakhari industry were up to EUR 226 million, of which 165 were to Piraeus Bank and 6.2 were for the producers who had not been paid up until the time I had tabled the question. The commitments made for the repayment of the two thousand three hundred tachograph producers from the administrative point of view until Friday, March 16, 2018 had not been met. On the same day he had met an Interministerial Committee at the Maximos Mansion under the Prime Minister and the financial staff, composed of Mr. Drasakis, Tsakalotos and Haritsis, but without reaching a decision on the future of the Greek Sakhari industry, so that the producers do not know if they will be able to produce for the next season. There were two questions, Minister. The first in part, as I have said, is inappropriate because the producers have paid a large proportion. The first question was whether there would be timely repayment of customs producers to prevent this year's growing season, making new contracts with the Greek Sakhara industry. The second, which is always timely, is what the objectives of today's governance are about the future of customs farming in Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u111	I wish all the timely questions would become unreasonable in the sense that much of the customs producers have been paid off. In particular, according to the latest briefing by the Cooperative Bank of Serres - to recall that on the initiative of the Vice-President of the Government this was done - by the Thousand Fifty-fifty-fifty-dollar producers, the thousands of two hundred fifty have been paid. The remaining eighty have not submitted a file and the remaining hundred have had a problem with insurance in order to be paid. In a few days' time when both the debt platform and the insurance funds will be opened, I think the rest will be covered. Therefore, most of the customs producers have been repaid. I shall now refer to the crucial question as to what the government's plan for tertiary farming is. I think the actions prove that this government wants and wants to support the sugar beet. Why? In 2015, we received a very difficult situation for the Sugar Industry - it has been analysed - because of mismanagement with supergovernment debts. 88% of the shares in the Sugar Industry belong to the Agricultural Bank, whose license was withdrawn. Since 2015 we have put the beet crop in the linked aid scheme, in 2015 with the amount of EUR 530 per hectare, in 2016 with EUR 725 per hectare, and now, in 2017, with EUR 720 per hectare. Our aim as the Ministry of Rural Development is to support the maximum cultivation of beet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, too. Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u113	I would ask, Mr President, your tolerance for a minute more than that, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u114	We're outdated on the subject of time. We were told 11.30 seconds to have finished, but not even 12.30 seconds, apparently, we won't be done. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u115	The point is, Minister, that we have to consider how we have reached this situation. On 7 February it was the first meeting of the Management Board of Sugar. The invitation, however, to the subjects involved, has been modified twice. We are talking about management councils in sugar, which in the last three years you have been ruling have changed five times. On 16 March, too, the interministerialism I mentioned before became two or three times before, without result. The company ‘ROYAL SUGAR’ did not close the trade agreement that it was about to make with the sugar factory because it did not grant the guarantee, with the logic that this guarantee could be committed due to high debts of the Greek sugar industry. This is where your government and your ministry should intervene, so that this does not happen. In the interministerial system, in which your Ministry did not participate - and this was a mistake in my own humble view - Mr Drasakis, the financial staff, as I said, Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Haritsis were involved. It is imperative that, on an issue concerning the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, your Ministry should also participate. There have been two tendencies in this interministerial system, Minister. One was the Vice-President, as you mentioned, Mr Drasakis, who asked for the Greek Sakhara industry to be restricted to marketing only. The other trend, which did not prevail, was to fight to find a way to continue to operate the plant in Platy to avoid the cultivation, as I said before, from the country. Unfortunately, you are not convinced, because the result of all of this has shown that Mr Drasakis' opinion and tendency, who wanted the Plateos plant to deal only with marketing and not continue to produce wood crops, prevailed. You referred to the Cooperative Bank. In the Cooperative Bank, Pellas farmers have absolutely no interest in participating as shareholders, because in order to be able to pay the money they owed them, they had to sign a loan contract and they themselves, which should have been signed between the Greek Sakhara Industry and the Cooperative Bank rather than the farmers themselves. One share had to be at least compulsory. The nominal value of these shares was EUR 30 per share, and it is false that there was a denial of the obligation on the farmers to get money, because 2% had to take it into shares. This is a reality, Minister. They've been forced. With regard to the documents you mentioned on identity and insurance information, you know very well that, because of a crisis, many farmers were unable to obtain insurance information. Here again, you could intervene so that these people too can be paid off much more immediately. As a result of all these practices, as I have said before, it was that this year's growing season should be lost because there were no contracts - because I come from a rural area, I know very well that the contracts are non-viable - which will make the Plato plant, like the other four which have been closed, non-viable. There will be a greater tendency for Mr Drasakis, who had asked the authority to deal only with marketing. This means that a product, the sugar in which we should have self-sufficiency as a country, unfortunately as a whole from now on will be imported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u117	Mr Colleagues, I mentioned before that, in 2015, the sugar beet linked was first implemented. What does that mean? If nothing else the intention of the Government and the Ministry of Rural Development to support cultivation. Until today, the amount of EUR 4,563,000 has been paid for 2017 and will follow for outstanding payments until 30 June 2018. With regard to the business plans of the Sugar Industry - you mentioned for marketing - according to the law and the statute of the Greek Sugar Industry, which, incidentally, is listed on the Stock Exchange, it is the administration, which is supervised by the Ministry of Economy, which is responsible for telling you about the business plans of the Sugar Industry and the fate of the factories. I repeat that we want to support it and support it in practice. I repeat that we have greatly increased the connection. We support it and we will continue to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, too, for the time economy, if anything. The second question will be debated now under number 1677/22-5-2018, the second question by the Member of Parliament, Atolokarnania, of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The debts of TWO to PPC and the risk of destroying farmers' crops due to lack of irrigation". Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u119	Minister, the TWG debt problem to PPC has existed for years. The debts have been accumulated, and now farmers are threatened by a cessation of electricity. You know what happened to those belonging to TEV Vineyards in Larisa Prefecture. PPC went on to interrupt electricity, stopped watering and local production was found in the air. That is the situation in Argolida. The switch came down to the pumping stations of the Argolida TEV and a serious problem has arisen in vulnerable crops, such as fruit and vegetables. Unfortunately, this problem is spread throughout Greece. It should be stressed here that on the one hand we have the GFCMs and TEBs with outdated networks, which means that we are unable to save energy and resources, as well as incomplete computerisation, which means extensive bureaucracy. Result? TWGs are struggling to collect the contributions from farmers, as well as those due from public and local government due to drainage. On the other hand, we have farmers who have been hit by the economic crisis and the measures taken against them to strive to be consistent with the TWGs. Minister, the problem is getting greater proportions in Itolokarnania, because against the threat of PPC, I would say, here are farmers in a particularly difficult position from the extreme weather phenomena that hit Itolokarnania, Mesolonghi, Agrinio in 2016 and 2017. I would remind you that both municipalities had become in emergencies. I would point out, however, that in Itolo-Carnania, in my own constituency and in my own constituency, like the President, there are three hydroelectric plants, namely Stratou, Kastraki and Kremas, which could give compensatory benefits in the region and give a definitive, I would say, solution to the cost of irrigating the crops of Itolo-Carnania. But what does the state do? She's deaf over time. Minister, I was informed yesterday that a meeting was held in Maximos on the question of the collection of TWG debts by PPC. What's that decided? Do you intend to take legislative initiatives to solve this problem? Will the Ministry consider the measure of a hundred and twenty instalments to repay TWG's debts to PPC? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. Finally, with regard to Aetolocarnania, Minister, does the Ministry intend to support the consistent demand of the local society for compensation benefits from PPC due to the three barriers I said before? Because this is where the local society calls for compensatory benefits from the three dams of PPC, which of course could offer a definitive solution to the cost of irrigating the cultures of the county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u120	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u121	Your question really, if anything, is timely. But we need to make things clear and talk about them by their name. Indeed, TWGs and GFCFs, most of them TWGs, are having an acute problem with the lender called PPC. There is a conflict between some TWG administrations and PPC, which is at risk of evolving into the limits of the dispute. But here there is a great risk that the farmer, the irrigator, will pay the bride. It came into my hands and I will present it with a report from a vowed accountant to Mr Panagiotakis, who says: "I promote my detailed report on crimes of embezzlement, money laundering, tax evasion that I found in TWO control, and I call on you to comply with all the legal measures taken by PPC." It communicates this to all the districtlors and mayors who had supervision, because the mayors need to know that they should read before they are elected, and be aware of the law. But on the other hand, not all TWGs are like that. Some in PPC are out of reality and the bride will be paid for by farmers. A solution can be found, as long as there is will and knowledge. You asked me about the meeting. I also heard from her yesterday. I have not been called and I do not know how to answer you. I personally sent a specific proposal to the President of PPC so that, on the one hand, PPC could collect the issue from the poor payers and, on the other, on the other hand, we could not have a cut-off of electricity. There is a legal treatment. PPC can be assured by giving the irrigation fees, because, on the one hand, PPC reaches the ends of the case, on the other hand some TWG administrations refuse to comply with the law, we will have the effect of paying the bride, which should not be done and will not be done. With regard to the legislative initiatives that we are going to take and have taken, I shall refer to my second-guess, Mr Papoutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u122	Mr Constantopoulos, if you will allow me, I would like to talk about something and then I will give you the floor. They could reduce the rate of payment. If they can, from 30% to less than half. It is possible to do this. What about the intakes? Because these debts come from the past. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u123	Mr Minister, I and the President are well aware of the problems. We're from the district of Iato-Karnania. Aetolocarnania is a home of both. We are well aware of the problems of Atalo-Karanania and the problems faced by the TWGs. Minister, I am truly surprised that a Minister does not know about the meeting and the debate on the TWGs that took place yesterday in Maximos. I'm really surprised and I'm wondering! The conclusions of yours. But it is crucial, Minister, for PPC to show its social face. Let us not forget that it is the farmers who have experienced most of the crisis. After all, debts to the local TWGs increased during the time of the crisis. At the same time, the government, local government, still owes local TWGs large sums to drainage charges. That is why farmers must not pay for it. Farmers and their crops must be guaranteed. At the same time, Minister, a viable solution must be found to repay TWG's debts to PPC. Of course, many wonder why PPC, while still silenced and watched TWG debts grow to its face, is sudden and threatening to discontinue electricity. Even when? Inside the crisis. So it is not a question of setting up a people's court to seek responsibility at this time or conduct a trial of intent for PPC, because the responsibility is shared. Now the state has to intervene and find a fair solution for everyone. A solution that will not scatter the sacrifices, labors and sweat of farmers. A solution that will facilitate TWGs both to collect contributions from farmers and to repay their debts to PPC. A solution that does not lead to the closure of the TWGs and the total destruction of domestic production. A solution that does not lead to extensive damage to the state funds. Mr Minister, there are proposals for us from the deadlock: one hundred and twenty instalments for the old TWG debts to PPC. Promoting computerisation for TWG. Integration of all TWGs into the Rural Development Programme for the renewal of their networks in order not to be energy-intensive, but to be able to put PV farmers in photovoltaics and drop production costs. Mr Minister, measures to alleviate the burden that farmers have borne in the crisis are being imposed. We, as Democratic Participation, have tabled proposals for this reason in the public dialogue to support the primary sector. In conclusion, Minister, I would like to say that the TWGs and farmers are calling for a fair solution that gives prospects and does not mortgage the country's productive reconstruction. Support for the primary sector therefore means support for cultivation, support for farmers' sweat. And TWG support means continuing to find wealth, because the loan is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u125	Parliamentary, in 2015 in the irrigation network and in the administration of bodies managing irrigation networks, we received a very difficult situation. They were overspending most of the agencies. Unfortunately, the legislative framework governing the land improvements agencies has been in operation since 1970. The first legislative initiative was last year, according to which the TWG's powers of supervision went to the regions. I personally believe that all these years very few municipalities have played the supervisory role in the TWGs. Unfortunately, many TWG administrations did not know how to exercise management. They did not intentionally mismanage, but they did not know how to exercise management. They did not know how to set up a general assembly and explain to irrigators why they should give contributions. Therefore, this ignorance over all these years, this lack of legislative initiatives has led to the current result of debt growth, with the threat of electricity being cut off. We are therefore in a situation in which there is no need against it. PPC must, without dismissing its interests, show - I repeat - its social face. As the Ministry of Rural Development, we have incorporated into the draft legislation a specific provision which makes it easier to collect debts from administrations on the one hand and, on the other, to settle debts on the other. You will see it within a week, so that time and 2020 and 2021 do not have the same problems again, that TWG administrations are threatened with a disruption of electricity. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Of course, every area is special. Please indicate for the compensatory benefits. You are probably right about that, but the Minister for Energy is responsible for answering. Therefore, the Ministry of Rural Development for the future has defined a clear legislative environment so as not to repeat the problem once and for all, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the degraded situation in which many regions are currently in danger of being stopped from electrification, decisions are required yesterday, not after a week and ten days, with social justice, on the other, because the irresponsible farmers must also quickly water, on the other hand, those who have wasted money or have been mismanaged to lead to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much, Minister. The first question will now be discussed under number 1669/21-5-2018 of the First Cycle of the MP Xanthi Coalition of the Radical Left Mr. Gregorios Stojannidis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Information on controls of the Safety and Health Inspector at Work (HAEC) following the fire that broke out at the SUNLIGHT battery plant and the need to create a Department for Safety and Health at Work in the Law of Xanthi". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Athanasios Iliopoulos. Mr. Stoyannides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, following the fire which broke out on 1-5-18 at the SUNNLIGHT battery factory in Olvio Xanthi, there has been concern among workers, on the one hand, about the health and safety of their working environment, on the other hand about the way and the process of rehabilitation. On the occasion of this incident, the need for the creation in the Xanthi Department of Safety and Health Inspection at Work has emerged once again, as the Regional Department of Safety and Health Inspectorate at the Work of Macedonia - Thrace does not have such a department in Xanthi, despite the fact that the Xanthi Prefecture operates many chemical industries, while the needs of Xanthi are served by the Department of Law of Drama, 85 km from Xanthi, so that preventive controls are made difficult to safeguard and promote the health of workers, the reduction of accidents and the prevention of occupational diseases. In view of the above, firstly, I would like to ask you whether a step of the Safety and Health Inspectorate at Work has carried out an on-the-spot check to assess the situation by means of specific measurements of factors, as well as whether the restoration process is monitored by the Ministry. Secondly, if the Ministry intends to establish a Department of Safety and Health Inspection at Work in Xanthi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Your Honour. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Stoyannides, the first time that this development has been under way in the SUNNLIGHT industry has been immediate intervention by the Labour Inspectorate. The company, after suggestions from inspection control papers, carried out medical examinations for all the workers who worked at the time and were at the factory on that shift. Medical tests, which have been carried out, are blood tests to determine the level of lead in the blood, as well as a series of comprehensive clinical examinations with an appropriate working physician. So far the results of the tests have been positive, there has been no further problem of what has already happened. The only one that has not yet been completed in terms of examinations is for dioxin levels. Apart from that, there is obviously also the whole part of how the remaining part of the operation has been affected or not by this particular situation. After the audit carried out by the Labour Inspectorate, the site is suitable for other workers, and the social inspectors have also checked. At the same time, the company has been asked to check - and it is controlled - all the necessary papers, such as the certificate of active fire protection, to see whether they had complied with all the necessary health and safety requirements. This operation is an undertaking which has only been checked by the Department of Health and Safety for the last three years. I mean, there's been an audit by inspectors who've gone to this operation. On health and safety issues, there have been monthly reports of accidents at work, which have occurred at the 'SUNNLIGHT' four times. At the moment we are in contact with the company, because it is obviously also our stress that the plant will be reopened so that no jobs will be lost. We're talking about a unit with five hundred and fifty employees. We know that the company's proposal, as has been said so far, is to reopen the plant in the area and not to lose any job - which is normal, because we are talking about a highly skilled plant. It is not easy for this workforce to be found elsewhere. That is why there is a series of important financial instruments that the OAS can activate in cases of natural disaster. We're in a business dialogue to see how we're going to move on. On the second issue, about what can be done with the Health and Safety Department in the region, I will respond to my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Please, Mr Stoyannides, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u131	First of all, it is a good thing that the services reacted immediately, because in the past we had no such reactions. You should be aware that, according to what the company said on the day of the fire at a meeting in the Anti-Germany, there are currently seven hundred fifty workers employed in the factory in Xanthi. This is a very large number of workers. Of course, one should have the same interest in showing, because we are talking about people. You also need to know that some residues have been left from the fire, which, from the information I have, will go to a specialist workshop to get and not the workers who work there. I think that the Social Inspectorate should also see what is going to be done with the pay issue and whether or not these people will continue to be paid or not. We need to see, if they are not paid, whether payroll in some way can be covered by OAS programmes until the plant begins. According to the company's statement, its operation will start again in September or October. That's very positive. With regard to my second question about the establishment of a Health and Safety Department in Xanthi, I would like to inform you that there is still a large company that employs seven hundred workers in Xanthi. There are also three other companies that are classified in the Seveso category. All of this shows that this prefecture had a great need for the creation of this particular section. However, as you know, the previous governments were indifferent to the health and safety of workers. We must at least put our own government on immediate priority, I consider this issue, namely the creation of this particular Department of Health and Safety at Work in Xanthi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Stoyannides. Mr. Undersecretary, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u133	Mr Stoyannides, I repeat that on the part of the inspection, both from the Health and Safety Inspectors and from the Social Inspectors, we will monitor all the progress of the process in the company and on how the workers will normally be paid, as you said, and on how the rehabilitation will be carried out so that the whole health and safety framework to be respected is fully respected. A characteristic is the example you mentioned. Obviously, they cannot in such places that there may be a series of dangerous materials for workers to get in to make the restoration. The Health Inspectorate is aware of this and is moving forward. Now, with regard to the second question, as you quite rightly said, the Labour Inspectorate was very degraded. I think the most characteristic example was the 2014 organogram, which abolished a number of sections. He closed sections and units. Perhaps the most characteristic example was that the Legal Support Department had even abolished. I do not know any more Inspection throughout Europe that works without legal support. With the last establishment plan that we spent last year, a number of departments have worked again. Units were built, such as the Legal Support Department and the Information Systems Department, because the information system is very critical in a selective mechanism. At the same time, a competition for fifty-three hirings is now going on through ASP and for a hundred and fifty-four distractions through mobility. In fact, from these recruitments, twenty are for the health and safety part. I would like to stress here that for the first time after eighteen years there is an intake for the first time. The latest intake of an inspector or an inspector to health and safety took place in 2000. You all understand what this situation means to such a fighting body. I fully agree with the need for a Health and Safety Department to operate in Xanthi. We hope that through mobility we will be able to find engineers who will want to move in this area. We have this stress to be able to function, we simply cannot currently have a specific timetable for when we can move on to this positive development for the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Minister. The third, with number 1668/18-5-2018, timely question of the first cycle of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Harulas (Haras) Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Substantially "innovations" of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Lydias Konordos. Cause: workload. Also, the third with No 1648/15-2018 topical question from the Independent Parliamentary II of Athens, Ekaterini Papakostas - Ironopoulou, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The founding of the Academy of Arts", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Lydias Konordos. Cause: workload. The twelfth under No. 1555/25-2018 topical question by the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Foreign Minister on the subject: "Low-down loans from the Turkish bank of Ziraat to the tobacco producers of Thrace", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Nikolaos Kotzias. Cause: It will be abroad. Eleventh under No. 1554/24-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on the building for the accommodation of the Department of National Roads of Paionia, will not be discussed by the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Nikolaos Toskas. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if he would Also, the thirteenth third under number 1152/26-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Questions regarding the case of agent on the basis of revelations by Panos Kammenos" will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Nikolaos Toskas. Cause: not discussed. Finally, the first question under number 5196/17-4-2018 of the circle of petitions and questions by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The last deadline set by Mr. Spirtzis for the start of the proceedings will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Christos Spirtzis. Cause: workload. The fourth question will then be discussed under number 1691/22-5-2018, the first question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Releases - trade union persecutions in the companies "ANAMET" and "VIANAT" of the Stasinopoulou Group". Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the administration of the companies "ANAMET" and "VIANAT" of the Stasinopoulou Group has proceeded with redundancies from trade unionists, but also from other workers who first and foremost claim their rights, what is left in any case until now. We say that they are trade union persecutions, because they have been done precisely for this reason: they do not want workers to trade. They do not want to claim health and safety measures, following on from the previous, of course, which have gone too far in recent years in the workplace, because they are costly and employers do not want to spend money on the health and safety of workers. They also claim permanent and stable work. It seems that the company has found the way to stop workers from organising, of course, hitting those who are leading on it. We say that this group has enough profits. On the other hand, intensification, accidents at work dominates these miserable conditions of health and safety, as we say, mispaid work. Dozens of workers are changing lawmakers to work through contractors for hunger stores. Because things are like this, we ask you what measures you intend to take as a government so that the illegal and abusive redundancies of workers are withdrawn, reverted to work and, of course, stopped by the company any attempt to prevent workers from being prevented and criminalised by their trade union activity. We are waiting for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr Katsotis. Please, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsotis, I'm getting into this at once. In the first case, for the worker in the company AnAMETT, a "working difference" was carried out on 14 May, in which the company's representative stated that neither the worker has been fired nor is there any intention of being fired. Just yesterday the Labour Inspectorate was informed by the worker that the company eventually terminated the contract and dismissed it. That is why we have already asked the company to establish a new 'working difference', in which the service's position obviously is that this dismissal should not go ahead. We will therefore be able to have a clear picture of this after completion and the new 'working difference'. I suppose the most within the week will be completed. In the second case, for the worker in the VIANAT company, a ‘working difference’ had also been carried out on 15 May. The company's representative used a number of excuses, which the agency did not accept. This is why it gave the company a deadline to withdraw the dismissal and proceed to re-entry. It is precisely because the final date, the deadline for the company, was yesterday, which is why the Labour Inspectorate has now made a reference to the company for the dismissal. The third thing, in addition to the "working differences", in which we can proceed if the union's request arises, is that a tripartite meeting should be held at the Ministry, so that the Ministry will also centrally press for the recruitments. Let me inform you here that the companies of this group, the Stasinopoulou Group, to which we are referring, have been employed by the Labour Inspectorate in the past many times. Only in recent years have there been twenty one cases of control by the Labour Inspectorate and a number of administrative sanctions - fines, imposed on this company. From our side, on the part of the Ministry of Labour, we will use all the tools that we currently have in our hands and at the level of "working difference" and at the level of sanctions, but also at the level of the tripartite, to press precisely for the reintegration of workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Katsotis, please, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u139	Minister, you yourself said that the services have done twenty-one audits in the Stasinopoulou Group, administrative sanctions, fines and so on. It appears that these tools are not sufficient to enable the employer to keep those minimums, which are left or appear that the employer, through its de facto line and policy in the company, seeks to form another regime by pressing the Government to implement what the market, in any case, implements. Today we are at a time when everything is being questioned, where the right of the employer is right. This shows, at least, the government's policy towards employers through the overturns, the reforms that have taken place in industrial relations, which are relations between the globe and the question of collective labour agreements, where you refuse to bring back as the institutional framework was, but also the right to strike, which you have already raised new walls in the organisation of workers and, if you like, the implementation of those who have conquered so that they can stand up against employers and all these choices. So it is no accident, Minister, that redundancies took place immediately after the trade union elections immediately the next day. So here's a matter. How do you interpret these rules of Law 1264, that employers are forbidden to intervene in trade unions, that they cannot exert pressure, violence and terrorism? What are you going to do about this? How are you going to run out or how you are going to create new tools, since after twenty-one audits have, as it turns out, been carried out so far by this group, but also by other groups, are not disciplined? And they are not disciplined because it seems that fines and all these sanctions can withstand them. So why should they implement what is left over, since a fine is far less than what is called on to do on the basis of what is still left? So the responsibilities are great. And what matters, Minister, is the result. We've said it many times here. It measures effective intervention and the result if a worker is actually justified here, when the employer is taking such a stand, or if he is not justified. And here you are being judged every day, in the workplace, in all branches, because, as we have said, the situation is hell.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Katsotis. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u141	Mr Katsotis, let me mention a few elements, which I think help us a little in the debate and in the picture. Over the last three years, more than a hundred fifty thousand controls have been carried out by the Labour Inspectorate. A very specific result, measurable, is that undeclared work - and I say in the sectors of high infraction, not in the whole economy - has gone from 19.17% to 12.48%. A second, very specific, result is that 35 million workers have been attributed to workers through the work of the Labour Inspectorate, through the "working difference", i.e. without recourse to a court, a lawyer and all the costs that this means. I can at the moment withdraw three recent cases, in which the dismissal has been withdrawn as a result of trade union activity: one worker in the clothing sector in Thessaloniki, the dismissal of a strike committee of migrants at a processing plant in Thebes, and the long history of fertilisers in Kavala. I think these three cases show that there are indeed cases where, when there is cooperation between the Labour Inspectorate, the Ministry of Labour and the unions, we can achieve good results. I would remind you here of something very worrying, which is precisely because of your active action in the labour movement. So I think it is a very worrying sign of degeneration the case of the Komotini Labour Centre, where the chairman of the labour centre fired a trade unionist. I repeat, the president of the labour centre has fired a trade unionist! There has been a fine by the Labour Inspectorate. And even now she's fired her in the worst way, with a lawsuit, so she doesn't give her compensation, and she's pulling this woman into court. I say this to show just that the ten-year period of crisis has left very heavy wounds. But our position is clear. It is clear and they make it clear, when we cannot even make it clear, very central journalists who come out and get sad at the channels that the IMF did not keep and say: "What a shame the IMF did not keep and the collective agreements are back." I therefore think that it is clear to what extent this government stands for collective agreements, which are coming back in August, for the Labour Inspectorate, which is being upgraded and for a number of new tools which are being created and to be created in the next period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday 25 May 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 1674/21-5-2018, a topical question by MP Lassithi of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Plakkatakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Evaluation of funding from EU funds for the supply of new vessels from the Port Body - Greek Coast Guard to strengthen surveillance of maritime borders, effective investigation and rescue and the fight against crime at sea". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1653/15-2018 by the Member of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "They are cutting the current in the TWGs - they are blackmailing farmers". 3. The 1671/21-5-2018 topical question by H' Vice President of Parliament and MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Previous poems of hatred by minority children in a ceremony in Xanthi". 4. The 1660-17-5-2018 topical question by Congressman I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Lack of democratic student representation in the EAW". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1675/21-5-2018 by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘Amendment to Article 59 of Law 4512/2014 (OJ 5 A'17-01-2018) and legislative initiative on the reception of materials from natural deposits in the Prefecture of Evros’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1692-22-2018 topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "Building false news (fakenews) with the participation of Greek officials and the assistance of state media." 3. The 1544-24-2018 topical question by MP Lesvos, New Democracy, Charalambos Athanasiou, Minister for Migration Policy, on measures to distribute the islands of the Eastern Aegean and, in particular, Lesvos, by transferring migrants to mainland Greece. 4. The 1589/3-5-2018 topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on "Control placement of greenhouses and processing plant for the processing and production of finished medicinal cannabis products". 5. The Question No 1640/15-2018 by the Parliamentary State of New Democracy, Nikis Kerameos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Does the Government finally have any plans for how to introduce into higher education?" 6. The 1618/8-5-2018 topical question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "Problems of the Architecture Department of the University of Patras". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP II of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development about the intentions of the US Government to impose import duties and the effect of the measure on Greek exports. Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-three students and students and one student attendant from the 5th Elementary School of Gerakas (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] By the way, I would like, as I see the Minister for the first time, to wish him a good career and good luck in his work, as well as a strength in what he has undertaken. Ladies and gentlemen, here we will have a five-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION We shall start with the first part of today's special agenda on: decision following the vote. 19/2.4.2018 Proposal by the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics, in accordance with Article 8 of the Code of Conduct of Members of the Greek Parliament and Articles 77 to 81 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This decision concerns the non-parliamentary and inappropriate behaviour of the MP Mr Ioannis Lagos at the plenary session of the Greek Parliament on Thursday 22 March 2018, in the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Regions on transport issues and other provisions". The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics was adopted by the Protocol No 19/24-2018, which has been distributed to you, according to which the members of the Committee are recommended by majority to impose the disciplinary measure of temporary exclusion from meetings against the Member of Parliament on expressions and designations used, which constitute undeniably anti-parliamentary and inappropriate behaviour and constitute manifestations of hatred and division, in accordance with the provisions of Article 8(a) of the Code of Conduct, the provisions of cases (a), (b) and (c) of Article 2 of the Code of Conduct of Members of the Greek Parliament, in conjunction with cases (d) to (d) of Rule 77 and Articles 80 and 81 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. The proposal of the President of the Parliament, as formulated in the Conference of Presidents of 22 May 2018, is to impose the disciplinary measure of temporary exclusion from the meetings of the Parliament for 15 days. The Conference of Presidents on 22 May 2018 was also decided to take the floor only by the Member mentioned, Mr Ioannis Lagos. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u144	The House has agreed. He has the floor, of course, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u145	First of all, the fact that you only gave me five minutes to speak, this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which you yourself have also voted on. In fact, this regulation clearly and categorically states that my time to speak is twenty minutes. Of course, your democracy cannot tolerate twenty minutes of verbal bombing that it is going to follow. That is why a Conference of Presidents has been held and you have decided with'so I want' once again to give me five minutes. This is your democracy in all the measures and all the stations you use! When I came to the committee, after you had invited me, I had asked you to tell me what specific reason this prosecution is for me and for measures to be taken. You didn't tell me anything. You only mentioned codes, articles, rules, and everything. Then some of you dared to tell that my behavior and my expressions were inappropriate. The expressions I had used were 'prophets' and'sold'. But listen to what Christos Mandas said, who was here as a representative of SYRIZA. He called me a traitor and said exactly - I read from the Minutes - "Stop, you traitor". Xydakis, who had nothing to do with going up to Step while I was speaking and asking the President of Parliament to stop my speech, was shouting - from the Minutes I read you - "Get down, Nazis". The other shouted, "Get out, you traitor." So my "supper" is unethical, my "supper" brings me to your committee and to the plenary to punish, but the "processors" of Manda and the "Get down, Nazi" of Xydakis do not fall under these laws and your codes. I am pleased that your corrupt parliamentary group, along with the others, is dealing with me in this way. I am pleased to put you in such a difficult position and to strip you constantly in the eyes of the Greek people. I will force you through this process once more to get rid of yourself. And you're humiliating, because I told you again that anyone who wants to read from the Minutes can read from the Minutes what other Members say about me and what I say about them. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] So you're too young to give up on us. I would also like to refer personally to Mr Voutsi, who was out of Ethiopia. The President-in-Office at that time, Mr Lykoudi, throughout my eight-minute speech, did not refer to any point in me, he did not ask me for the floor, he did not tell me to delete anything from the Minutes, which means that my speech was within the limits and within the framework of the parliamentary procedure. But Mr. Voutsis, outside the House, comes to defend his companions, Xydakis, Bakis, Manda and another five - six, who had come up here, swooped me and shouted. So there your democracy, Mr. Voutsi, has nothing to do with it. Your democracy is very selective, Mr. Voutsi. It's only about Yannis the Rabbit. Why is it only with Yannis the Rabbit? Because it represents the Golden Dawn and the ordinary Greek citizen. If you were fair, Mr. Voutsi, you would have the rest of them passed by the Ethics Committee and, on the basis of the minutes of my speech, what they have said. You didn't dare to. And you didn't dare, because you're not President of Parliament - and I personally don't see you like that - but you're a representative of SYRIZA...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u146	The plural is speaking to the president.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u147	Stop a little, Democrat. You're only a SYRIZA representative. Otherwise, you'd dare do it. Besides, it's a great pleasure to be abandoned by you people who are going and hugging serial killers out of prison. So you can't come here and talk about me and tell me why I called you "prostitutes" and "solders". I insist on these designations. You'll never make me apologize or forgive you. I didn't do it, and I wasn't afraid of you when I was going to the prison cell. Even now there's a trial pending.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u148	Slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u149	Finish, Mr. Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u150	There is now an pending trial. Many of you would have hoped and wanted to have caused us to bend our heads, face you with respect and with fear. First of all, Mr Voutsi, respect is won. You have not won any respect in this Chamber. So in fear that you want to impose me and the rest of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group you will never make us sign statements of repentance. I have nothing to sign a declaration of repentance, nor apologize to ask, nor to thank you to anything. Your faith also seems to be a different feature. Events have taken place some time ago with the MEP of ANELs, Mr Katsiki, whom your MPs were asking to come to the Ethics Committee. But Mr Katsikis came after three days and asked for forgiveness from here, voting for the bill on benefits you gave to all illegal immigrants. I said from this the Step that day, after Mr Katsikis declared repentance, is not going to have any effect, just as it was. The next day, the Ethics Committee - and you personally - decided that there was no reason for this and you would simply rebuke him because he was a good boy. The same happened with your congressman, Ms. Big housekeeper, who we found out last week was playing chairs here and chasing a man in the House. There are no ties there. So I'm going to continue my fight. For me whoever signs to give Macedonia's name is a traitor, is sold. The whole process you're doing is humiliated. I will continue to fight for Greece, for orthodoxy and be my opponents all of you and across from me. The Greek people and as long as the Greek people vote for me and bring me to the Greek Parliament, I will be against you with all the power of my soul.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Rabbit has completed the heroic and mourning...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Katsiki, this procedure is not provided for. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u154	Madam President, it is not predictable...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u155	There is neither personal nor anything. There is no intervention in this procedure. It's too strictly formal. Please! So, Mr. Rabbit is finished. Ladies and gentlemen, a vote will be taken on this point by lifting or by raising, in accordance with Rule 71(2) in conjunction with Rule 24(2) of the Rules of Procedure. I would ask those who accept the President's proposal for a temporary blockade from the sittings of the Chamber of Deputies of 15 days against the Member, Mr Ioannis Bagos, to rise. [[Receiving the proposal]] I am pleased to tell you that everyone who is in this Chamber today has risen. The President's proposal is therefore accepted and imposed on the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Lagos, the disciplinary measure of temporary exclusion from the sittings of the Parliament for 15 days and the reduction of 1/2 of his monthly parliamentary allowance, in accordance with Rule 81(4)(b) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Thank you for this process. We shall now enter the second part of the special agenda. Mr Kammenos will continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u156	We continue with the second part of today's special agenda: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution, Articles 43A and 83 of the Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos and Nikita Kaklamanis. The report was announced on 17-5-2018 by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics, according to which the members of the Committee proposed, by a majority, that the immunity of Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos be lifted. The report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 19-14-2018, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed that the waiver of Mr Nikita Kaklamani's immunity should be waived. Also, in accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, ‘the House shall decide by raising the hand or adjudicating on the request of the Public Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b)’. The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates.' I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents on 23 March 2005, we agreed on applications for waiver of immunity that the House should decide by roll-call vote and roll-call vote. I would like to inform you, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents on 7 March 2018, that this procedure has triggered the new electronic roll-call system. So since the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is closed, we will proceed to a roll-call electronic vote, as I said before. The first case concerns Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos. The second case concerns Mr Nikita Kaklamani. Is there a Member of this Parliament who asks for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u158	Here you are, Mr Nicholas, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u159	Mr President of the House, Mr Nicholas Voutsi, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that I have to answer for the free, but legally unscathed, expression of my evenings within the framework of my parliamentary status. However, this is the first time that such a matter has come to the plenary, since it has so far been urging the logic and invoking of the Constitution, considering that there is no question of waiving immunity from a Member for expressing his "belief" and declaring his views. A few months ago, here in the same Chamber, for the same reason, you said seventy-seven Members that my immunity should not be lifted and twenty-three people said they should. I take the view that the members of the Committee on Ethics this time - and I told them at their meeting, that is to say - did not give much weight to the substance of the case. They went through it easily and in their decision they probably did not understand that they were opening the door to criminalisation of Members' rights of speech and opinions, which is not just about me, about my opinions and my case. I fear that if today's process tends to me, all of you, regardless of whether you agree or not with me and my views, you can turn yourself into potential victims of anyone who disagrees with your views and is intentional or not asking for your immunity to be lifted. I personally refuse to bend my conscience and principles because some disagree with me, how much more so when my particular public speech not only did it not succeed against any citizen, but never caused or incited any racist hatred, which is also the protectionist purpose of the legislator. I was just seeing that there was the inspiration of the bill, Mr. Babis Athanasios, but he's gone now. I have often said in public - and I say it now - that I respect and honor every human person, regardless of what he thinks and what sexual preferences he has. However, I strongly disagree with those who want to impose their own concept and conduct on me and on the entire Greek society. I also sincerely stress that I will be opposed to any theory that runs counter to Christian evangelical teaching, the morality and traditions of our people. Of course, I will stay in favor of marriage as a mystery of the Orthodox Church between man and woman. Of course, I will continue to fight and support the traditional family. They are opinions which echo the Greek Christian Democrats I represent in Parliament, and - I think - and the overwhelming majority of Greek society, a society that does not bail against those who support other theories and have other views, but cannot even yield to the views of others without their own. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, if it is ever possible in a democratic regime for a Christian Member to stop in public moving the word of the Gospel and forbid him to put forward his positions and participate in the conflict of ideas and the confrontation of arguments. I wonder if any of us would dare say to our colleague: 'Stop saying what the sacred Quran says and what your religion for homosexuality' says in the Chamber? If it is democratically right to be persecuted, Mr Georganta, and their views, then in the case of the Orthodox MP Nikolopoulos who confesses and proclaims the truth of the Gospel, then, yes, with your vote, send him to justice to decide on his own law or law and leave the House and Members vulnerable to every charge contrary to their beliefs and ideals. With all honesty I say that I have unlimited confidence in justice, but the issue I raise is purely political, a question of democracy and parliamentary freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago the writer Soti Triantafel was officially acquitted for her views on the basis of anti-racist law. I'll let you know that she was persecuted by the same man and by the same company that she's asking for mine. It is the person who, together with a small group, has been abducted several times against our country in the European Court of Justice and has already filed thirty-four complaints about anti-racist law, trying to impose their own opinion and position on Greek society. They have the right to be heterophobic, homogeneous. They have the right to say and do whatever they want, and they do well. All of us other citizens and MPs, don't we have that right? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end your tolerance, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have never been hidden personally. You know that. I've been here for many years. Either within the committee of inquiry or within the House, I have not hidden my views, nor who am I, nor what I represent. I feel, however, that some, not in Ethiopia, seek to cease Christianity. And I can't be a crypt Christian now, so I'm not in danger of suing anyone who thinks that by means of the judicial threat he'll blackmail and bend consciences. So I fully deny my report and her allegations against me. My allegedly illegal behaviour, because you may not have been able to see the memo that I personally sent to each of you, consists of simply posting a front page of the daily Athenian newspaper on my personal website and the website of the Christian Democrat Party, of which I am elected President and MP. It is a text that anyone who sees it and reads it from the press reports will understand that it does not contain hybrid or slanderous characterisations. It will understand that it is none of my direct or indirect encouragement to conduct acts of hatred or violence in a way that endangers public order or threatens the life, freedom or physical integrity of messengers or any other person, as the law expressly defines. It will also be noted that any of you who bothers that in addition to the Lunachek occult resolution, as it is, includes extracts from a published article of the newspaper "ELEVERRO TYPOS", colleagues of the New Democracy, signed by the well-precedented journalist George Papathanasopoulos. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that I have just stated and expressed, in the constitutionally permissible measure, my views both as a Greek citizen and as a Member and as President of a small party formation. On the contrary, the attempt by the messengers to criminalize the expression of any contrary to their own views constitutes completely undemocratic and abusive behaviour. Freedom of speech and ideas are the foundation of democracy and not a crime. So call on you to decide. I, too, as an old parliamentarian, will respect the majority decision and, if necessary, will come with absolute confidence to the Greek justice which will be called upon to reaffirm the limits between racism and freedom of opinion, especially when it comes to opinions that I think are in agreement with the great majority of the Greek people. In any case, whether by immunity or not, I refuse to deny my religion, a religion that I know is aimed only at love, solidarity and fellowship, not hatred or division or fanaticism. That is why I think I am honoured to defend these principles at all times and against anyone, with respect, but also with the courage that suits a politician who has been honored so many years by Greek citizens who still believe in God, home and democracy. Thank you. On the way down from the Step, however, because I have heard that our vote will be electronically and since this morning they have been flooding on social networks and are asking to know whether my party, if Mr Mitsotakis, really votes today differently than a few months ago, if he ordered to vote for the lifting of my immunity, I tell them that in the committee he changed Mr Tassoukas last time, because he had said so...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u160	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u161	Listen, Mr. Kutsuko. SYRIZA knows exactly what citizens think. They do not believe that the party that says is on the Christian bow, like your own, that you go and worship and make long crosses, that you may have the same attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much Mr. Nicholas. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. Is there a colleague on the second request asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u163	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u164	Here, Mr Kaklamani, you have the floor for five minutes, with the relative tolerance of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u165	I won't need five minutes, so I'll talk from here. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Christodoulopoulos, who has just come down from the Step, for all the colleagues in the Ethics Committee who had decided unanimously to vote against the waiver of my immunity. I don't need to analyse the matter. It is a case of the Municipality of Athens in 2003, which perfected a finding of public administration auditors over my days. This is why I am also within or outside "prosecuted" with eighteen members of the municipality, not the municipal council, but the municipality. I believe, therefore, that for moral reasons too, I cannot cover myself behind the possible absence of immunity and leave them alone. But mostly, they went to the interrogator and took it out. Of course, everyone was released without any restraining condition. The case is on the stumbling board waiting to see what's going to happen with me to find out if he's going to go into the file or whether he's going to go to the hearing. Already this year two of the eighteen people have not been judged for the sake of an idiotic law, which says that if persecution is pending on your face, you cannot be judged, not even a preliminary decision. So, I can't make time to keep these people captive from being promoted to chiefs or managers while they deserve it. After that, having thanked many colleagues who saw me in the hallway, they came to my office and told me that they do not want to follow the decision of the Committee on Ethics, to do so by those who are going to vote, because we have to finish this case, because I think it will end without any problem at all for the two reasons I have told you. And thank you very much for the confidence in my face.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Kaklamani. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened and that Members vote on applications for waiver of immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, to which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of an electronic roll-call vote on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament. On the first case of Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos: A total of 157 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 127 Members voted. On the question of immunity, i.e. the 'OHS', 26 Members voted. "PARON" 4 MPs voted. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted. On the second case by Mr Nikita Kaklamani: A total of 143 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAI', they voted 134 Members. On the question of immunity, 7 Members voted against the motion for a resolution, i.e. 'NOVO'. 'PARON' 2 Members voted. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted. The result of the roll-call vote, as reflected by the electronic system and shown on the screens of the Chamber, shall be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and shall be as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-24-S1-commons.u171	With the consent of the House at 12.41' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, May 25, 2018 at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
