ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's approval of 21-2-2018, the minutes of the UN's meetings of Wednesday, 21 February 2018 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 23 February 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 1121/20-2-2018, a topical question by Congressman I Athens of New Democracy Mrs Theodoras Bakoyannis to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The fight against the smuggling of fuels and cigarettes has become a joke". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1107/16-2-2018 by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "A coastline isolation of the inhabitants of Agathonisios in the middle of winter". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 1122/20-2-2018 of the New Democracy MP, Konstantinos Javara, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: “Shopping red loans from borrowers”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Sorry of a saturated Peloponnesian power grid”. 3. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: “Incorporation of sewerage networks and waste water treatment projects Kontovasina, Levidi and Kallianios Arcadias”. 4. The Question by Mr Andreas Katsaniotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, dated 1080/13-2-2018, by Mr. Achaias, Member of the New Democracy Parliament, Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Decoration of saints and effects on coastal areas of Achaia”. 5. The Question No 1081/13-2-2018 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the creation of a Hazardous Waste Landscaping Area in Megalopolis. 6. The question by No 1008/7-2-2018 of the Greek Parliamentary Second Chamber of Deputies, George Lazarides, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Adaptation of the debt arrangements to PPC in social and economic reality and a specific provision in areas with RES". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question raised by the Member of the Radical Left, Mr Athanasios, Mr Athanasios, Mr Athanasios, Mr Athanasios, Mr Athanasios to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Twelves of decommissioned ships and shipwrecks in the Elefsina port area". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 2431/9-1-2018 of the Deputy Drama of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Application of the work to improve the ski resort of Fallar in Drama Prefecture". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question, under No 1139/92/13-11-2017, was asked and applied for the submission of documents by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "unjustifiable delay in the drafting and publication of quarterly reports by the Board of Appeal against the decisions of the Asylum Office." Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I would like to inform you that the fourth question, number 1087/14-2-2018, of the first cycle of the Member Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "Questions regarding the case of an agent, based on the revelations of P. Kammenos", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible, Mr. Toska, abroad. Likewise, the third question under number 1088/14-2-2018, the second question of the President of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "An unsatisfactory intervention of the leadership of ELAS with regard to participants in the rally, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Toska abroad. Also, the first question under number 1110/20-2-2018 in the second cycle of MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: "Incorporation of incurable diseases into the single table for the determination of a disability rate", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the Member's question. The fifth question, under number 1114/20-2-2018, is the first question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: “Union - Agricultural Cooperative Trikala” (ESAF)”, will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the relevant Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Achtsioglou. The cause is an official meeting with the Irish President and the Irish Minister for Labour. Also, the fourth question under number 1115/20-2-2018 in the Second Cycle of the Greek Communist Party, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the workers at the "EUROPE" press distribution agency, will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the relevant Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Achtsioglou. The cause is an official meeting with the Irish President and the Irish Minister for Labour. The sixth question, under number 1117/20-2-2018, on the second question of the Piraeus II cycle of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Protection and Safety Measures for the Life and Health of Workers in the Shipbuilding Area", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the relevant Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Achtsioglou. The cause is an official meeting with the Irish President and the Irish Minister for Labour. The fifth, under No. 1089/14-2-2018, topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the subject: "About the Greek National Minority of Skopje", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Nicholas Kotzias. It's because of the workload. Also, the seventh under number 1106/16-2-2018 topical question by the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the subject: "Glory loans from the Turkish bank Ziraat to tobacco producers in Thrace", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Nicholas Kotzias. Cause: workload. The ninth under No 926/26-1-2018 topical question of the Second Cycle of the Thessaloniki Association of Central Members of the European Parliament Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Foreign Minister on the subject: "Do you trust Matthew Nimic as a special Ombudsman of the United Nations on the Skopje issue?" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the State Secretary of Foreign Affairs Mr.Ioannis Amanatidis. I would like to inform you that for all these deletions there is the corresponding letter from the Secretary of the Ministerial Council. the debate of the second under number 1119/20-2-2018 on a topical question by Attica MEP Mr. Athanasios Bourras to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: ‘Restoration of the damage and reconstruction of the old Elefsina - Thebes National Road’. The question will be answered by the Minister present, Mr. Skourletis. Mr. Bourra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are aware of the particular sensitivity I have, as a Member of the Attica Region, in West Attica, to which I have served from another position of responsibility before. I know her very well as you do. On November 15 - so that the citizen who has now opened the channel of the Parliament - namely in Mandra and New Peramos, has become an unprecedented natural disaster. The disasters, which have been caused and which you know personally, because you have been there since the first day of the crossing of the catastrophic torrents from the Mount Father, have caused irreparable damage to both the residential fabric and the internal network of the cities of Mandra and New Peramos the Megaras. Almost three months have passed and the damage has not yet been restored. The city of Mandra, which I think you should visit again - I don't know if you've already done it - is still dead. Her residents are trying to rebuild their households. The old Elefsina-Thyves highway, which is our subject, is in a terrible state. Therefore, the moves of the inhabitants of the mountainous regions of the municipalities of Villion, Red and Oinoi, as well as the tens of settlements of the Municipality of Mandra - Idialia - because this municipality has a very large area with many settlements - are difficult. They are almost isolated from the Municipality of Mandra - Idyllia, to which they belong, as they have no other way to travel to and from Mandra and Elefsina, which is the capital of Western Attica. Despite the commitments of the government and the Prime Minister himself, at the conference you made in the West Attica area, that in three months' time - the Prime Minister said - the damage to the road network will have been fully restored, the projects have only begun some initial sketchy interventions which, however, are not a solution. The difficulty of moving the residents of all the municipal units of Mandra - Idyllia and visitors has an even greater influence on the economic life of the region, as it creates difficulties in carrying out professional activities. Let me just say to you that in the region, as in each region, there are some activities that are built up, such as the creation of catering shops, taverns, etc. They can't easily approach. Many local residents do not happen to be professional motorists and the transit of their cars is forbidden. They have to go around the highway. After all this, Minister, I sincerely tell you that I have asked this question not to stand up, but to help resolve the problem in this poor region because of this latest phenomenon, an area of Western Attica that accumulates many problems for the rest, I will say, Attica and unfortunately does not have the corresponding treatment over time by the governments and I have no problem saying so. I would like to sincerely ask you to help resolve this important problem. I did the same thing a few days ago, with the same President-in-Office, Mr Kaklamani, on a major issue that was delaying the treatment in a special way, as is done in natural disasters, of the students or graduates who are going to give their examinations this year in these areas. Indeed, we have discussed with the Minister of Education - good time as now - and a solution has been given. It has not been implemented, it is on the scald, and I believe that this solution will satisfy the students and candidates in this region. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Bourrai, I think it is a common place, for every well-meaning person who has lived in this last tragedy, that the state should be moving on the basis of all the immediate relief of the affected and then the search for the causes, because we must draw conclusions from such situations so that we can remove the causes that have led to the loss of so many lives and the loss of property. This way we can never be in the face of similar situations again, not to see our fellow humans lost in this tragic way, not to see our fellow humans lose their properties in one night. I think we have moved as far as we can in this very direction. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you of the measures taken by this government, but also by the region and the co-responsible bodies. In particular, the Ministry of Interior, on 20-11-2017, reminded me that the catastrophic flood was on 15-10-2017 - it supported the municipality with the sum of 500,000 euros and, respectively, the Municipality of Megares with 400,000 euros. On 26-1-2018, again on behalf of the theories, after a meeting with the Mayor, we approved the grant of an amount of EUR 980,280 for the restoration of the municipal road. In fact, it appeared from the debate that there was a priority on the main road on Coropolis Street. I hear there's been no disbursement, even though this money has been subsidized. But you realize that this is not the responsibility of the Ministry. There are services, as are the emergency status that is facilitated by direct assignments. So we must each take responsibility and move at as fast a rate as possible. At the same time, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour in our joint decision we have approved the sum of EUR 469.552 to cover immediate basic needs. At the same time, I would like to remind you of the five-kilometres and eighths to natural persons and businesses, which was the first time in the case of Mandra. All of this forms an image of initiatives, instruments, actions and steps that have not been like this. It was right, of course, because it was a very tragic case. There has been no similar mobilisation on the part of the state. In relation to the old national road, in addition to the immediate measures taken at the suggestion of the Trojan Sea, in order to ensure that any transit at the moment is possible in the safest way, the study has been launched to modify the engraving of the old national road. It has joined the Region's Public Investment Programme and is expected to implement this study within two months. It was announced February 2nd. So, within two months, we will have its completion so that with the project's expected change in the GDP will begin to take place. But it's not just the way. We are talking here about the need for universal intervention and for other projects to be carried out. As you know, it promotes the diversion of the winter of Agia Paraskevi and, respectively, the torrent Sures Triasi Budget Field 10,948,200 euros from the region. These works are routed and costly. At the same time, there has been a programme agreement between the region and the Municipality of Mandras to integrate urban and suburban road restoration projects and reconstruction of public spaces. These two projects are the first amounting to EUR 4,350,000 and the second is EUR 2,350,000. Similar actions have also been taken in the case of Nea Peramos and in particular in order to restore the sewer to the Acrogiali site. The sum over there is 5.170,000 euros. I think what I told you before is true on the basis of the real potential and the use of the available resources. We didn't step in, we moved on. Obviously, this must also be confirmed through the speeding up of procedures, as you have pointed out with your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mr. Bourra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in fact, about what I can conclude, three-quarters of your position refer to not the issues that I have raised with my question, because I have asked these questions, but I have asked them in writing, not in time - I can bring them to you - both the streams and all the other issues. I must say, however, that you yourself have said this very sincerely - you see that there are delays. In other words, the weather runs and the inhabitants are upset, even for the repetition of a phenomenon. I have to tell you that all the evil happened on the old highway. In other words, of the twenty-three victims of the Mandra area and one of Nea Peramos, due to a different territorial theme of the region, the twenty were lost on this axis, the old national road. I don't see everything else, of course. I don't want and I can't and I can't question what you said. Alas! But what I have to say is that it is going to be time and nothing happens. I'll tell you what's going on. We will not say what did not happen after the fires of 2015 and 2016, which had to be done above and above all - your next-door Minister for Rural Development, and indeed because of specialty, as a forestist, knows - to make studs, as they are in these cases. In fact, in the great fire of Parnitha, the first thing that happened at the time of the government and Minister Souflia was to come three hundred loggings from Halkidiki to make the loggings and we had no such phenomena again. Because all the evil came from the filthy matter. Of course, I do not want to say again that civil protection did not work at the same time as it should have worked, with a stop in traffic, that is, in Kazakh, snowfall. But I'll tell you something else. Indeed, if I understood correctly - I did not know - you said that the study was published on 2 February. Yes, this year is not good, Minister, for the decision to update individual studies. As you know, there are studies which are per kilometre position etc. Indeed, in this case there will be a bypass from my information. Do you know when it was taken unanimously by the Economic Committee of the Region of Attica? December 21st. I testify to her. It was taken on 21 December, when the matter was very warm and where the inhabitants lived and still live this nightmare. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Bourras, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are now coming to call not you, because you are supervising, but the region, after a month and a half, has had to make the decision of 22, to declare on 23. He didn't stop her from doing anything. Everything is mentioned. If you look at this, it's a detailed decision. As far as I am concerned - I must tell you this - unfortunately starting work will go after a year. That's what they told me. Here we had an extraordinary weather phenomenon, which has not been recorded in the last hundred years, if you want, in the region, which was a special gas flow from this region. If we go after a year to start carrying out the projects, then they will not be able to reach the region. Because it may be called an old highway of Elefsina - Thebes, but it is a road that offers the economy of the country. The residents of many municipal units and settlements are professionals and do not work today, that is, there is no partition. Access to more than eight tonnes of vehicles shall be prohibited. If we leave these with normal procedures, then we don't do anything. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The reason why this decision was taken unanimously by the Economic Committee, which is all those who participate in the Regional Council, was to make such an important and urgent move. I - I apologise, but it is critical of these issues and we have a particular sensitivity in this area - I would like to ask you to intervene as far as possible - because I know that it is regional issues - so that all procedures can always be speeded up legally and always with the possibilities offered by the laws to deal with emergencies. I would like to tell you that the residents are concerned, they are in a desperate situation. Many of their children are moved to care. What can we do? There are children who leave a settlement and go through this street. People don't feel safe.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Bourra, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u8	In your dentistry, I want some commitments that will resolve this issue. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u9	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u10	Mr Bourrai, you have used a phrase which is completely unfair. You said 'Nothing happens'. You should not say that you who have nursed twice as noble in different areas and you know that at that time they resolved the issues, the times that the central state reacted when - I repeat, without being satisfied with how we would like things to be done - we have achieved a vigilance and a mobilisation which is probably recorded in the positive scores of the Greek state, based on time experience. Secondly, you have sensitivity. Sensitivity should not be shown after and after loss of life. Sensitivity and as a parliamentarian you should have shown it when there were catastrophic, criminal, legitimate decisions in relation to the region's urban plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u11	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u12	Not for your days. I speak as a Member of the region. I am talking about 2003, for example, when you knew that on the streams there were critical, productive uses, when we all knew that if we had such a flood, as was unfortunately the case, we would have these results. There, therefore, the role of the Member, and in particular of someone who has nursed twice as prefect, is not to ex post express his sensitivity, but in advance to talk about the risks. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u13	Not exactly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u14	That's right, Mr. Bourra. So to render Caesar the Caesars of Caesari. There is also a matter of competence. These responsibilities, this bucket of responsibilities you handed over with the overlapping, with the pretexts that "it's not mine, it's the municipality", "it's not the municipality, it's the county, it's someone else's prefecture". That is what we are now trying to do as the Ministry of Interior: through these reform steps, which we are preparing to present in the forthcoming 'KALIKARAT' legislation, to try and unravel the buckle. So, I repeat, I'd like things to have been done yesterday and you might have been the other day. So I accept this well-meaning sensitivity of yours. I do not accept the discriminatory criticism you are making obviously by representing an area which, as you have said, has a time-consuming responsibility for some issues, in relation to how to deal with them, with the options that have been made and with the Greek state dealing with these issues. This road, the old highway, which is a critical road in any case, must not just be repaired manually. It has to be restrained, it has to be done in the safest way. So let us, at the moment, develop things, put pressure together - and I am glad that we are given the opportunity of your question - to speed up the procedures so that we do not come back to such situations again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the Educational Programme "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Greek Parliament, twenty students and students and two educational attendants from the 11th Municipal School of Glyfada. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We will now discuss the first with number 1109/20-2-2018 the first question of the Dodecanese MP for the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Gakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "In uncharted waters, the amateur fishing in our country will be debated. The present Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Evangelos Apostleos. Mr. Gaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the government decision to implement the plan for the reconstruction of the fisheries sector, which you recently announced on the island of Kalymnos on your visit there, a highly maritime island with tradition in fisheries, marks the launch of a comprehensive, documented and realistic multi-optional operational plan, with legislative initiatives, projects and supportive actions aimed at ensuring the Aegean fish stocks and creating long-term sustainable economic and social conditions for the fisheries sector. This is a logic which governs the basic objective of the European Union's Common Fisheries Policy, documented by scientific studies, is provided for in the 'Blue Development' in terms of environmental protection and is supported by the proposals made by the islands themselves and by the fishermen's organisations. In my opinion, fishing is, especially for the island country, in addition to the important economic activities, an integral part of the cultural tradition of the place, both at professional level and at amateur level. In this context, while rules have been laid down both at national and European Union level, with the Common Fisheries Policy, there is no - essentially - control over amateur fishing, since after the abolition of amateur licences in 2014 by the Government of New Democracy - PASOK there is no record of amateur fishing reflecting the current situation. It should also be noted that the recording of recreational fishing is also a Community obligation. So, in my view, amateur fishing must be conducted in a manner that is compatible and compatible with the objectives and rules of management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the Mediterranean Sea. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The catches of marine organisms from recreational fisheries should not be placed on the market. However, exceptionally, the marketing of species caught in sporting events or in the context of fishing tourism that is developed late may be authorised provided that the profit from their sale is available for charity purposes. And finally, measures should be taken to regulate underwater fishing with the sprat. In this context, the reality escapes, unfortunately, good management, with repercussions on both professional fishermen and on tourism and other complementary activities for the marine environment itself. At the same time, as a result of the crisis, there has been an increase in the so-called 'radio' share of fishermen selling illegal catches, creating both unfair competition and a great catastrophe to fish stocks. In view of the above, Mr Minister, you ask: What action have you taken to re-establish the amateur licence? And let us know if the papers in the press apply, electronics and form, that your ministry is working on a draft law on amateur fishing. And, secondly, what measures do you intend to take in order to combat illegal fishing and the sale of fish from a 'professional-experienced' share of fishermen? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u17	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u18	My dear colleague, I am aware of your sensitivity to fisheries and at a time when issues relating to amateur fishing are being discussed, I have been waiting for your question. First of all, I would say that we agree on one thing, that in fact the fisheries sector, in particular for coastal and island regions, is the main point of reference not only in their income but also in their cultures, in their way of life. Unfortunately, however, despite the importance of this sector for these regions, I have to say that it was a complete abandonment. We received a dramatic situation, since the industry was surrounded by a Ministry of Ministry and indeed through reasonable dowry from each Ministry to the other. They have come to have abolished the representation of this sector and you realise that it had no opportunity to participate in decision-making centres, in discussions relating to the future and tomorrow of the sector. And, of course, the 2014 decision taken by the then government, that is to say, abolish the issue of a licence for amateur fishing without any documentation. Of course, this approach has not only brought problems in the internal fisheries process. It has also brought too many problems to the Committee on Fisheries in the European Parliament. We have reached a point where the European Commission should be abrogating us because we have not had management plans, as the Mediterranean regulation has been calling for since 2007. We are therefore responding to this abandonment of the industry by tabling a recovery plan, a plan which will make fishing sustainable and sustainable, to ensure that fish stocks for the next generations, and of course also have brought fish stocks into a situation that can serve the needs of the country. So we have already launched a revision of the archaic institutional framework by amending a decree of 1970. With the recent amendment that we made to this decree, we have given a new perspective to the fisheries carried out in the direa of our country, strengthening co-operation. We are reintroducing the representation of fishermen by law. It is already being worked out in the Central Commission, in the CENE, so that fishermen can obtain their own collective representation, cooperative representation, so that we can come to a dialogue with them and, above all, discuss the arrangements that we have in place. Therefore, these regulations include a change in the institutional framework on the professionality of fishermen, a new binding fisheries law, as well as a law on amateur fishing. I've said it before, I'll say it again: We have tried to amend here in Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u19	The rest in your dentistry. You're closing up with this, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u20	I'm closing, Mr. President. We have tried with an amendment that we had in Parliament to reintroduce amateur permits. Unfortunately, it had not been accepted. This time, however, the solution will be final. More about how it's going to be and when it's going to be in my denture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Gaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I have nothing more to ask, Minister. I would just like you to tell me whether the management plans have had an impact on the behaviour of the European Union in our country. So we had fines? Did we have any such effects? Secondly, if you have some basic principles in the draft law that you can now announce and which the Ministry is working on, and if you can submit them. And, of course, it is a requirement for fishing operators to enter into consultation immediately. For fishermen, apart from giving a very long and difficult battle for their survival in the sea salt and in national difficult and critical areas, can contribute very much to the creation of a draft law that will satisfy them, but at the same time the whole of society by developing, as I said before, the requirements of fishing tourism, but also the requirements of amateur hobbies for fisheries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, forty-two students and students and three teachers from the 1st Rafinas General School (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please, a correction to the Minutes: Where the Minister of the Central Committee said, it should be written a Central Preparatory Committee. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, thank you for the correction. But that committee's no longer going on...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u25	Even though you said so, then right, abbreviated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u26	You, of course, have other central committees in mind. We, because we have been through such processes, let us be easier to use this term.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u27	We didn't take your head, but I can't imagine the drafting of the bills is taking place in the Central Committee in Kumundur! Well, let's know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u28	I told you one more thing. The issue is that, with the completion, dear colleague, of the institutional representation of fishermen, in view of the draft law on amateur fishing, we will be in consultation with the operators. We want to arrive at a decision which not only ensures that all citizens are able to fish, but at the same time we are obliged to respect and serve the positions of the Common Fisheries Policy within the European Commission. Because there are many reports and particularly television reports on amateur licences and the time when this responsibility is to be exercised, we want to make it clear that there is no concrete decision on the time and the day, because we have not yet discussed it - and I repeat it - with those who must, in particular, serve professional fishermen, so that we can have this sustainability we are looking for. Of course, in addition to reintroducing the institution of amateur fishing, we in the new draft law should also see what is going on with fish stocks, because it is a serious obligation and we will serve it, because we have secured through the ESA, the New Fisheries Programme, to collect them intactly through the National Fisheries Data Collection Programme. We have already reached agreement on this with the PPE and there has been pre-financing of this activity, so that we can have the possibility through this operational programme not only to absorb amateur fishing but also, more generally, professional activity in the field. So each of us where he is will do whatever he thinks he's doing. I particularly address the fishermen. Knowing that in this effort we will be next to them, because we have a duty not only to ensure this activity today for all these inhabitants of the islands and coastal areas, but especially for the next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u29	We will now discuss the eighth under number 1076/13-2-2018 a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Compromise PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROLOU to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Truthful damage to Crete in herbal capital, public - municipal and private infrastructure, etc. - Direct compensation for producers and support for the affected - state of emergency". Mr Evangelos Apostolos will once again reply to the current question by the Minister for Rural Development and Food. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. The topical question has been postponed three times because of the minister's workload. I hope this has helped, so that things have moved forward and that it has something specific to tell us. Nevertheless, I will also operate photographic materials to do with the disasters of infrastructure, greenhouses, plant production, plant capital, facilities and public infrastructure. These are features and they will help in that. It is also typical of one of the newspapers: "The title has broken it all." By written the Single Association of Farmers Ierapetras, the Municipality of Viannos, the Municipality of Ierapetra, the Municipality of Sitias have made you fully informed. It is now very specific. Three hundred and eighty-four producers have told Ierapetra. Many have not said and this is a matter and perhaps some time should be given. It's about four hundred in Vianno and about fifty in Sitia. In eighteen to twenty million at least the damage has been calculated in all areas. ELGA has started a job. In addition to the overall valuation of losses, personalization has begun. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the Minutes the above photographic material and the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We therefore want you to tell us specific things about the measures you take and about direct compensation and to facilitate the way in which compensation is done in cases where we have bureaucratic problems. We also want you to tell us when the PESA file will be submitted and what suggestions you have made to the relevant ministries for measures to be taken for the farmers affected, for the farms affected. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Kegeroglu, you were just on time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Colleague, I think I have the right as Minister to have my obligations. I think my absences are too little. If you're looking for my presence here...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u33	He didn't insult you. Indeed, you are one of the perpetual ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Colleague, for the damage that has been done to herbal and animal capital by a particular storm on 25-26 January, concerning the regional units of Heraklion and Lassithi, the necessary labels have been made by ELGA's geotechnics. There were announcements and about a thousand statements submitted. The work of individualized assessments is under way. You have referred to a particular amount ahead of us. We're still not there because we haven't done what I told you before, personalization. Then, you know, we're going to process these elements. They will be linked to the IACC file, which will be sent to ELGA. Within a two-to-three-month course - I cannot tell you exactly - we will certainly have the first findings, which will also be sent through a process in the ELGA and which will result in a payment. I've been identifying it from now around in the fall. Don't tell me 'you can't pay in time?' These are procedures for abbreviating them. Previously we had payments in twelve and thirteen months and reached six and seven months. Let's make it clear that this is about those who are insurers. So this time I mentioned to you is a year that will allow us, in the insurance brief, to pay the corresponding allowances. We have had damages in this case and, above all, in fixed capital, greenhouses. There we have about three hundred applications, which relate to a thousand acres and there the work of assessment is under way, in the direction of bringing these damages into the well-known to farmers as an ASEAN. Of course you know that if the conditions laid down in the State aid regulation and the Community guidelines are met, a dossier will be drawn up. This dossier will be submitted as approval to the European Commission and, as you can see, compensation will be paid under two conditions. It is one thing to cover them from the Ministry of Finance, the General Accounting Office and the other is that we have the approval of the European Commission. I can't give you any more time. You realise that this is the case in procedures where so many people are involved. At the same time we also have the financial capacity on the part of the Ministry of Finance. I can't tell you any more when you already know that for these payments, it's been at least two years to pay. This procedure exists. We can't get through it. There's no other way to cover these allowances.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u36	I have to say that the twenty days around have not helped us to have specific answers. You must, Minister, tell us specific things. First of all, the evidence which is detailed and accurate from the record made by the municipalities is at your disposal. I think that you have also been sent to the damaged acres and one - one - the greenhouses and the olive-growing sector, and as far as the fixed capital is concerned, plant production. They've sent everything to you. About 8 million are recorded damages only in the Municipality of Ierapetra. I am starting with the question of the possibility of giving a deadline. After all, as far as I understand it, you will be late to submit the ESDP programme - not EPC - you are not in a hurry. So allow people to say, those who did not say, in the seven days, in the eight-day period, to be included in the programme. The second is that the ELGA needs to strengthen staff, which you promised, in order to proceed with personalisation within a short time. You have to. The third issue, which I mentioned before, of the immediate submission of the CSCE programme, after, of course, and the completion of the procedures provided for, has to do with the time to compensate people. And because in Vianno in particular and in the area there is a precedent in 2012 damage, the program was submitted within three months and in their account the money had been placed within 11 months by PSEA, not by ELGA, so imagine that a comparison will be made, and this should be noticed. I now come to the issue of exceptional financial aid, to which you have not referred, to tell you this. The exceptional financial assistance granted to enterprises under legislation for other disasters in other regions is also required for the region there and for farmers, producers and entrepreneurs. Their business is greenhouse, olive oil. We won't have two standards. The financial support will have to be given, and you must tell us specific things. Now, if it is a Ministry, we want the document you have proposed or requested from the other Ministry as a competent minister. Of course, Mr President, in addition to exceptional financial support, you have been asked for tax and insurance facilities, and the freeze that has been made in other areas for other damages and, of course, for unauthorised debt regulation. And because you will tell me that this is the responsibility of another ministry, I would like to say again that I want your suggestions as the principal responsibility of the Ministry, which concerns agricultural production and rural entrepreneurs. I'll tell you one thing, though, that's yours. What do you think of doing - and this is an opportunity for these regions - with the young farmers involved? It is an opportunity to decide to announce their integration, first of all from these areas, of all those involved. Mr. Tsipras at the Crete Development Conference said: "Everybody will enter about three thousand from Greece". We're waiting for your decision. It is about three hundred fifty at the level of Crete. In these municipalities we have farmers, who can, on the basis of these disasters, also move from one generation to another. It is your exclusive competence, and I would like to see what you are thinking, to listen to the people affected, the farmer, the producer of the region, what the Ministry's thoughts are, and especially what the actions of the Ministry are. Because we can no longer talk about thoughts in this particular matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u38	Mr Colleagues, you have put many things which are not within our competence, but, as you have said, by representing the rural area, we are also taking up a burden to solve problems which are the responsibility of other ministers. First of all, we are in agreement with local government. We've taken all of their assessments, and we'll definitely take them into consideration. As with Regional Government we are in contact and the decision of the Region of Crete to declare a state of emergency for these municipalities is well known, of course, following the authorisation of the Secretary-General for Civil Protection. We have also asked the relevant ministries the question. What I have to tell you is from the Interior Ministry that has sent me an answer, which, of course, relates to resources attributed to the Municipality of Vianno and Phaistos in 2017 or those attributed to addressing, in particular, the prevention of these damages. For the debts you have said to the State, the Minister for Finance, in accordance with Law 2275/1994, in such cases contacts and contacts with the Independent Public Revenue Authority and may, through this procedure, agree to suspend the recovery of outstanding debts and extend the deadlines for payment of the certified debts. Push it, you and local government, and you realize that what is happening with the other regions must also be done with Crete. You also raised the big issue relating to young farmers. First of all, let's get one thing straight. For what we do in this particular part, we are in full, I would say, consultation and contact with Regional Government. We've made up our minds. [[At this point, the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So they stayed in the area of perpetrators. That is to say, we had specific money, that money was given to those who were considered to be beneficiaries. There are, of course, beneficiaries and perpetrators. So, then, to cover them, we already have an overcompensation rate that we will use. But with overcompensation, it seems that we will not be able to cover all the participants. From there on it is our duty to try, after we have exhausted the possibilities of absorbing the money that has gone to four regions and have not been absorbed. It is now under way. We will see how much they will get out of there and have all those who have said they want to deal with the rural area, get them in. But there is only one case through safeguarding resources. To be able, after the approval of the European Commission, to transfer funds from one measure to another, depending on the absorption that exists, so that we can cover as many as possible. So, at this time, we are in the second phase of a declaration of entry for young farmers, of taking the money that we have overcommitted and what is in place to close down some of the participants. We will not cover them all, but as far as the rest of them are concerned, they will have to bear in mind that even with additional criteria either in the improvement plans or in other measures that will introduce new farmers, there will be a special care for them. In conclusion, of course, I will tell you that we will seek a transfer of funds, if there is approval, to meet these needs. There's no other way. From national resources and to wish, we cannot, because the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the European Commission are forbidden.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u39	We proceed to the third with number 1086/13-2-2018, a top-level question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament and I, Vice-Chairman of the PASOK Parliament - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Cremastinos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the boundary of the Imian sea region. It's a very interesting question. The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs will respond, Mr. George Katrugalos, who is present. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, the question is indeed very interesting - you are right - and it concerns, in essence, the delimitation of the Imia waters. This is because I will read the positions of the "Posidian" Fisher Association, their leadership, which says: Every year in December and January, there are great populations of the so-called "Koronat" black soup in Imia to give birth. So Mr Sarukos says that "This year we have not been able to get to the point where we can do our job and get our bread. The Turks come to us and then they come to touristic kaikes, which perish in Greek territorial waters with the protection of the Turkish port." Greek fishermen report that the Turks expel them, even when they are less than two and a half miles from the coast of Kalymnos and again in Greek territorial waters. Mr. Saroukos continues: "Think we were fishing in Kalimnos near the lighthouse and Turkish ships came to us through Greek territorial waters. When we went to react, they took out weapons and threatened us." Fishermen, in fact, add that their lives are at risk, as when a few metres away, at a speed of forty miles an hour, such as the noose, are at risk even for their safety. To finally send the message that "there is no day when the Turks are not in our waters, they have done their Imias, they cannot approach, we are afraid". After that some questions have been raised. Because the Turkish foreign ministry says "Imia is ours", the Greek says they are ours. The question is this. That's where they sail NATO ships. NATO cannot know, what are the territorial waters sailing their ships? Can't the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have a response from NATO, what are Greek territorial waters? The second is what people who fight for their bread each day say. They say that the corresponding side has protection for their own fishermen. Do we have protection for our own fishermen? They say they're completely unprotected. In view of the fact that the Immigrations we had a few days ago, you realize that this will happen again, how much the atmosphere will be burdened with even with our relations with friends Turkey. For we do not want to have a conflict and a war with Turkey. We want to live in peace, so do our fishermen and their fishermen. We need to find a solution. We cannot say - and I am addressing the Ministry and not you, Mr Katrugale, but to the Minister personally, who himself makes the meetings and should be here - that we are discussing, without being able to resolve these simple issues for these people. For both the Turks and the Greeks. Find a solution. So you realise that this is a very serious matter, and I would like you - of course - to express Mr Kotzias - because Mr Kotzias himself makes the negotiations, to come to Parliament to tell us what he is doing. Where is this topic finally?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, the question is interesting, but you know the answer. You know how much I respect you. You should know her, too. No one's negotiating for the Imia. No one is negotiating for the Imian Sea Area and the other islands. Because we are negotiating on the questionable issues. On our own issues that have been solved by conditions, no one would dare. He would touch the limits of the last treason to negotiate. We must be particularly serious about these issues. I will not make historical recursions, precisely because I want in response to this, to serve the national interest. So your question contains two subtle questions one by two. What the Greek Government accepts with regard to the Imian question and what it accepts as regards the Imian sea region. You don't know, Mr. Comrade? Do you not know that from the Treaty of Losan on all the other islands, from the 1932 Treaty to more than one between Italy and Turkey and from the Paris Treaty of 1947 there are no gray zones in the region? Are we going to question that? Will we in the Greek Parliament raise a matter of negotiation and will the Minister who is negotiating this issue come and tell you? For God's sake! The other question. Can Greek vessels fish unnecessarily and safely? The problem you're putting is really serious. We saw it with the nearest embolism. You know that the Turks, who want our own to present them, are actually harassing them, are indeed violating International Law. This is not enough to make the 'grass' area, because every time an aeroplane violates our airspace it is intercepted and every time a ship harasss the fishermen, it is also monitored and removed. You know this is done with bravery, courage and lack of means. What do you want to ask? Tell us what you would do or what you did to do. I can assure you that there is a national line here which is firmly served by all governments. There may have been problems in the Imias in the past - I do not want to talk about handling, not problems which have called into question the legal dimension of the issue. I would ask you very much, namely, that you in particular are a very serious and responsible person, not to put issues of sovereignty through your questions, and we have had to ask NATO to give us its opinion on our islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u44	Indeed, Mr President and Minister, the negotiating word also contains the condition of retreat. But when we say negotiation, we do not mean retreat, we mean a debate. Can't these two states talk about their fishermen not being killed every day, not struggling to get their bread? To say it very simple. I didn't say we broke up with the Aegean. I didn't say we'd sit on a table and say, "Take this island" and "Take us the other". I didn't say that. Negotiation means talking about what is life and death for these people. And when they themselves seek protection, as the Turkish side provides for Turkish fishermen, that is what you realise to be very sensible. It's not a matter of what PASOK did or what New Democracy did or what SYRIZA does. It's a national matter. We're talking right now, and tomorrow something might come up. As you know, the American ambassador anticipated the fact that happened a few days ago in Imia. So the prediction was a great feat? This thing can be done tomorrow morning. I don't wish that. I don't want to see it. But we have to catch up. Because you said that we were willing to negotiate retreats, no, I don't mean that. I mean the conversation about people's lives. That's not a bad deal, if you want. We're talking. It's not that we're going to retreat, we're going to give up, to fish for the Kalymnos fishermen. That's not what I mean. I make it clear. Then I would like to say this on the occasion, Minister. You know that I appreciate you very much. But the Minister who makes the negotiation, which speaks - when I say 'negotiation' again in the good sense of the term, not that he gives and takes, that he discusses - the one who talks about being here to tell us: I do not understand this, that is, we go to memorials, funerals, beatings, and doing masturbations? I will ask you something simple, which is not - I repeat - SYRIZA, why did you say to me: 'What would you do?' That's not what I like. It's a problem between both PASOK and New Democracy and SYRIZA. So 'you' and 'we' do not exist in national matters. I don't accept it. What I accept, however, is that we cannot say, for example, that we throw a wreath into the sea and that is what we do, because I want to tell you this. When I went to Kalymnos to attend these celebrations and I asked: “Why are the men who you have in Kalymnos for the officers not in Imia? What for? Since they are ours, why is the manservant of the Navy officers, those who fell, do not exist in Imia and exist in Kalymnos?" And they laughed at the people I was talking to. You realise that this is a very serious matter. I repeat that it is a matter that needs to be discussed, not to negotiate, because it is not a matter of vagueness. I am interested in these people's life, which, as you know, is not being bought off at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u45	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u46	Mr Colleagues, the assessment between us is mutual, there is no question of this. In this respect, however, the term ‘negotiation’ is not precise. The issues of sovereignty are data. We must not think that they can get into a table. The attitude of the other side when it enters our waters is an illegal act. As an illegal act, therefore, at the level of the Port and the Hellenic Navy, it is disgusting. In discussions between us, what we are seeking is to deviate the tension, precisely because there can be a warm accident. We must therefore make every effort not to happen. That was the point of President Erdogan's invitation. That was the point of the recent debate between the two Prime Ministers. The issue of fishermen is serious. It was dealt with by our government at the highest possible level. As you know, the Prime Minister was present in the region, spoke to the President of the association of fishermen. The information I have is that the debate has shown the obvious that there are harassments. The fishermen told the Prime Minister that they are being treated calmly, and the Prime Minister told them that they should not feel unsafe, because the Greek state with its means, the Port and the Navy, will always be next to them. All infringements are reported under Article 2 of Regulation 1005 of 2008 on infringements in the European Union, so that there is no doubt in the face of sovereign rights. And on the human topic I told you before - you know it yourself - that our people in the port are going beyond themselves. So we make the man possible. There is no "grey" area in the Aegean Sea. There is no negotiation item. We're not negotiating for our own things. We will do everything we can to protect the life, safety and the financial interests of all the local residents and our fishermen there.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u47	We move on to the debate of the last under number 1120/20-2-2018 on a topical question of the second-round question of the Parliamentary Serres of the New Democracy. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “They’re bleeding” financially thousands of EKA insured from delays in harmonising how to pay contributions to the Agency.” The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Here, Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, indeed, a very unpleasant surprise among all the others expected - as known - thousands of free professionals and self-employed, farmers and farmers, who faced the unprecedented tolerability of your Ministry, to calculate their contributions for 2017 on the basis of the correct reference year, namely 2016 and, of course, the huge delay of your Ministry in delivering the excessive contributions as, Minister - and it is well known - these insurers were invited throughout 2017 to pay insurance contributions based on the incomes of 2015 rather than 2016, as defined by the Katrugalos Act and to pay contributions for a reference year, where their incomes were increased by up to 35%. I imagine that you do not question that in 2016 on the basis of the Treasury's figures, the self-employed declared income by EUR 900 million less - remnant of 20% compared to 2015 - and especially for farmers - the consequence, of course, of your tax policy and the increase in production costs - was a sinking of agricultural income. According to data from the Ministry of Finance, but also from EUROSTAT, agricultural income decreased in 2016 by 9.1 points, i.e. farmers in 2016 made EUR 111 million less than in 2015. While it had to be the clearing of tax declarations in July 2017 that people should pay according to the reference year and proceed with the settling, it had to be six months, Minister, to get out on 14 and 16 February respectively the circulars, where the netting will take place, which will take place in March of this year. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In the meantime, Minister, you know that every three and a little you committed that this set of netting was a matter of days, but at the same time, when you unduly received contributions, amounting to EUR 300 million according to reports, as four hundred thousand insured persons paid more money, which in many cases reached EUR 2,700 per person. The question is, therefore, why there was this huge delay - over six months - to issue this circular and why, in the meantime, you have put all those insured in a process, formally financed the ECA, paying excessive contributions, and whether this was an articulate and indeed a way of covering the deficit of the ECA, which according to the reports it had in the budget of the 1 billion-dollar hole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u49	The rest in your dentistry, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u51	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Arabatzis, you might want to show that the income of the free professionals and farmers was increased in 2015 and then your question might have something to do with your aim to show that the economy was blossom and now it is falling. However, the fact that we have a real increase in social security revenues cannot confirm this claim. However, in order not to stray the debate on the claim that they have to pay much more in insurance contributions and that there is bleeding, as you say in your question to the freelance professionals, in general the stubborn events and numbers cannot agree with you. In 2016, they paid up to 200 euros on the basis of the system that existed before - the previous law, not Law No.4387 - 27% of the insured. Unemployment has increased to 86% of those who pay up to 200 euros, much less than before. In 2018, it will increase the percentage of those who will pay up to EUR 200. They are about a million two hundred and ten thousand insured who will pay smaller contributions than in the past. So your claim is not correct. In fact, up to EUR 100 pays five hundred thirty-three thousand insured and six hundred three thousand insured pay between 100 and 200 euros. There's nothing you're talking about. And there's no such bleeding you claim there is. On average 80% of the self-employed paid the minimum contribution, which for farmers is 36% lower than the third insurance category and for free-traders is 61% of the one they paid. As far as farmers are concerned, 90% pays this minimum contribution, which, as I have said, is less than 36% compared to that paid to the third insurance category. Freelance professionals are 80%. These figures also come out for 2018 and show that the picture will, in fact, be at the levels that have been shaped in the previous years. There is in no way what you are giving rise to as a disaster because the alarms have come out for 2018. These alerts show, as I will then say - as I am used to eating my time, Mr President - what will happen in 2018. Don't worry about the world, there's no such thing. Mr. Brutsis, your colleague, says that we are driving people to the tax evasion and calls on them not to pay to get through. Don't do that again by you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theory for forty students and students and two teachers attending the 1st Rafina General School (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Arabatzis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u54	Minister, you are probably distorting my words and of course the truth, because you have presented to us how with your calculations - and I would even like to have the documents you are referring to officially - the insured will pay less, as you say, and so they do not bleed. That's not what I asked you. I asked you, because for over six months you asked them to pay more than they had to, Minister. Instead of asking for an apology that your systems are in a fetal state and obviously you can't figure out, you've been calling on them to pay more than six months now. In fact, instead of saying that they did pay more and we should do our utmost to give them back, you come and tell me about the minimum contribution, etc. What are you questioning? That the farm income went down in 2016? Are you questioning EUROSTAT? Are you questioning the evidence of the Ministry of Finance? Are you questioning that they declared 900 million less income in 2016? Are you questioning the data of your colleague from the Ministry of Finance? So you don't want to create false impressions, do you know why they're going to pay less like you're telling us? Because you're reducing their income. We're so happy! Since the pie is reduced, the income of all these people, and since you have connected insurance contributions with a percentage of income, it is reasonable to reduce the contributions from now on. Since people make less, they'll pay less contributions in proportion. Are you proud of this? You reduced the income pie. The Minister for Rural Development said the same. In other words, you have reduced people's income and you are obviously proud. Congratulations! You're not telling us about the truck. These people have been blooded to you with a bunch of money, which are unduly paid. As you say, the settling that will follow will prove, Minister, a gift free of charge from March 2018. Do you know why? First, because for the first time the income is set - listen, listen! - and on the basis of insurance contributions. You're the government that, with the abortion law of Katrugalu, put the insurance contributions into the income. So, as you can see, there will be a charge from 8% to 38%. In addition, the 15% discount for this year, i.e. insurance contributions will be calculated at 85% of income, is only for this year in 2018. 2019 is 100%, another increase. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Farmers, Minister, will only be invited this year to pay 15% more for insurance contributions, because 14% of 2017 is now 16%, not to put the health contributions, 6.95%, which when you brought the Katrugalos law, you said there will be a gradual adjustment and then, in September 2017, you said retroactively from January 1st, directly, 6.95%. Is that why you have something to answer, Minister? Because with all your policies there has been a diversion of income, and that is why there has been a hole of mammoth in your paranonic ECA more than EUR 45 million from the unpaid contributions of farmers. Since you're here, you've never answered me from now on. Some contributions that the born...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u55	And that's what you're finishing up with, Mrs. Arabaji. We're not asking a question now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u56	I'll close, Mr. President. Some contributions that were paid by the people born in 1950 to June 2017 -- although they were pensioners, that is, you did not give them the pension and you invited them to pay the contributions - for when do you see return them? What is the number of insured persons who are entitled to lower contributions based on what you have done? What is the total amount of the difference and what impact will that have - that you will return, supposedly - to the incomes of the FBI? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u57	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u58	Mrs. Arabatzis, when TAXIS took place, it spent four or five years to find its way. Appreciate us who have changed such a tumor, with total lack of proper data on social security, I guess let me say that it is at least unfair. They match other traits, but it is at least unfair to say about this world that tried to clear a register for a population of about 10 million insured, with thirty million numbers, when you already had to have an AMKA for every insured and all these years until 2016 that our Government came, you had done nothing to clear the registers. For six to seven years you hadn't cleared AMKA's record, it didn't exist. And you say, because in a year's time, we didn't do everything and you're constantly charging us, because we don't bring the full organization of the state with the broken-up structures it had. Finally, if you're going to promise something better for the future, at least tell the truth. What I'm telling you is valued through the system itself. The tax authority has paid the net income. Already the alerts to pay the January 2018 contributions have been given. Looks like the contribution. There's no such increase you're saying. Everyone listens to you, and he starts to wonder where you find these numbers. Some friendly column to you who always takes care of the news to come here to ask me, says there's an increase of 258% in contributions. This will obviously be a gloomy increase in revenue in your comments. Otherwise that cannot be understood. To conclude, we have an increase of insured freelance professionals in the year that spent about twenty - three thousand six hundred. Unemployed people have increased. We also have an increase in employees. That is why we have an increase in social security revenue and according to the data from the alerts notified to the insured, at the minimum contribution is 81% of the free professions for 2018. 71% are lawyers, 69% engineers. So in no sector of the economy did what you say, bleeding. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] These are the data that are available and I will explain to you, Mr President, that Mrs Arabatzi will understand, because I reply as I answer her question directly. There's no such difference as to return. It really doesn't exist because 80% on average pays the minimum contribution, so there's no difference to give them back. It was the lowest. What should we give? Also, because of the possibility with Law 4445/2016, they could pay part of their contribution, too many were aware that their income would vary differently to another level. They paid part of this contribution, with the result that 22% of the free professions, 24% of the scientists, 30% of the farmers pay a lower contribution than they were called upon to pay, because everyone knows where the income is going to vary. So they have provided some of the contributions they will be asked to make. That's why there are no such discrepancies as you say. There is no undue payment of that amount which, in fact, can be said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u59	How much is there?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u60	There isn't. I told you the liquidation would take place in March. HICP has a load of too much work...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u61	We delivered it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u62	You handed it over to us to HICP, because in a year, instead of nine years of you, we did not clear the registers. Okay. That's the answer, though. It's all going well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u63	For those born in 1950, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u64	...and we will, in fact, have a very developmental year and a world that approaches social security with optimism, like homeless people...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u65	About the '50s born?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u66	Or the authors, because I keep watching false news coming out that we're getting the pensions from the authors. There's been a mess on the internet. They say that the homeless who sleep in their kits made employers and we get them contributions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u67	When will you return what you owe to the born of 1950?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u68	No dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u69	That's what you keep saying, instead of seeing that we're supporting uninsured and absentees. Even for those who sleep on the bench and the paper, who cover them with health insurance, care and pensions, you do not say "good". Even this came out on a front page in the newspaper "The NEWs" yesterday as a "Reckoning raid on the homeless". The insurance coverage has become an upside back for that kind of perception. We shall proceed in the way we go, and we shall be judged on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "Follow it from February 2, 2018, amendment and codification in a single text of the Concession Convention between the Greek Government and the Port Authority of Thessaloniki S.A." and other provisions.’; The above draft law was characterised by the Government as an urgency and the responsible Standing Committee on Production and Trade accepted by a majority its designation as an urgency, in accordance with Rule 110 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 15-2-2018 to discuss the draft law at one to two meetings. I propose that the debate should be uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. I don't think you need a second meeting. I'll let you know that the auto-registration system is not working. So until he comes down from the Step and the second rapporteur, Mr Plakkatakis, whoever wishes, I would ask him to come to the Secretariat or to do so by a hand-lifting, in order to put him on the list. Three colleagues had spoken to the committee. I think that today will not be more than six or seven colleagues. So by short and tight procedures to proceed, so we don't get to suffer what happened last night. Let's get this over with today. The Minister is here, the first two rapporteurs are here. I'm asking the rest of us to come in, so we can get started. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u72	So the House agreed with the proposal I made. So we are starting with Mr Marda, the SYRIZA Secretary-General, for twelve minutes. Here, Mr Marda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, we have today to discuss the contract for the concession of certain areas and services of the port of Thessaloniki between the Greek State and the "Thessaloniki Port Authority S.A.". Very briefly, in historical terms, in 1953, the port was administered by the NGO as a legal person governed by public law. It turned into a public limited company in 1999. On 27 June 2001 we have the concession agreement between the Greek State and the EGH for exclusive right to use land, buildings and facilities in the land port zone for for forty years. We had a number of amendments in 2009 and between these amendments we also had a 10-year extension of this use. All this is the so-called ‘existing concession contract’. In 2008, a first attempt is made to grant, but not all of the facilities, but part of the well-known container station, the VET. It is a process which sails in the sense that Hutchison, the candidate contractor, finally withdrew his offer. As a result of this procedure, he remained a gift to the EAT, which was the guarantee letter of this company. Since 2007, and in particular, in 2008, a precipitation has been presented with regard to the freight movement at the station, the TTBER. More specifically, we have a 46% reduction of so-called 20-sapons containers, of these metal boxes which in international terminology are called TEUS. At the same time, of course, we also have a reduction in bulk. Here, of course, from then on, and more specifically from 2010 onwards, we have the administration of the EGF which, according to its claims and its reports, seeks to take off the port. But, as you know, the quality elements in the administration are the ones that give the tone of growth dynamics, not only in the port but also in every company. It is noted, according to the CVs of the president and CEO - one person - that these quality characteristics were not the most appropriate. Of course, I will also present the CVs of the then CEO and the current CEO, so that this problem of the difference in quality is finally understood. And I can tell you who really cared, so that the port would be kept at its feet. Because it is found that during 2010-2014 we have a depreciation of the port, in the sense that the main concern of the administration was not to have any damage, which is, of course, correct. But that's self-evident, it's not the game. The lunar is to be able to expand the port's activities, increase the hub of the port, so that the port can step on its feet. A port that is in a dynamic development process, you understand that it has many more advantages, even in the course of the concession process, than in another port which is in a stagnation process. At this point I submit the two curriculum vitae of the two managing consultants in 2010-2014 and 2015 to this day. As I also present the port's performance from 2014 to 2017. [[At this point the Member, Mr Dimitrios Mardas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You will find very easily that during the period 2012 to 2014 - I take three years because it is all three years from 2015 to 2017 - the administration then managed to increase the volume of TEUS by thirty-two thousand ninety loads, while from 2015 to 2017 we have an increase of these loads by fifty thousand two hundred seven. Of course, this whole process of depreciation that has taken place all this time due to inappropriate administrations, especially 2011-2014, is also interpreted by fellow academics. I am tabling Joseph Stiglic's statement, which was not, of course, mentioned at the port, but referred to the privatization companies, and why the process of taxing the companies to be privatised internationally is served. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Mardas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We come in 2014, where the GOI decided to make a 67% majority package available, and we entered a concession process, where on 10 April 2014 the preferred investor was appointed. In order to conclude the appropriate amendments to the existing concession agreement, the Greek State called on the EAF in order to align its content with the intended transfer of the majority to the future investor. In 2018, due to the revisions, we arrived at the so-called ‘revised concession agreement’ signed on 2-2-2018. With regard to certain aspects of this convention, we have the regulatory role of the State and the supervision of the state that is quite strong here. This is a significant difference in relation to the past. It is a differentiation that shows, if you like, the choices that take place in any concession or privatisation procedures our Government has. The contract provides for a certain number of minimum levels of travel per year, which are quite high and which I shall refer to below. There are three fees in the case of ships. And we have an intervention by the state at the end, which refers to the coastline alone. There is a provision that refers to the prohibition of mergers or transformations or anything else to the EAF in the course of its operational process, without the authorisation of the State. In exchange for the concession is a function of the gross turnover and a year may not be less than 1.8 million. There are penalties in the event that the EAW does not fulfil any of its obligations. And there is provision for a contract to be terminated in the event that it leads to extremes. The price to be paid is EUR 231,926,000 for 67% of the EAF shares. Investments by 2026 will move between two scenarios: The base scenario predicts EUR 256.900,000 and the optimistic scenario predicts EUR 441.600,000. The minimum investment up to 2026 that needs to be made is of the order of EUR 180,000,000. The overall increase in the revenues of the EGF by 2026 will be of the order of 834 000 euros. The net financial benefit by 2026 will be of the order of EUR 216,000,000. In addition, there will be revenue from storage, feed from some other services offered by the port of EUR 465.100,000. The impact on GDP is 1,47% below and 1,93% above. The General Accounting Office of the State reasonably notes expenditure only revenue. As I have a little time, as far as the presentation is concerned, I shall refer to some of the articles of the Convention which are of interest: In Article 2(2), we have the supervisory authority of the Port Regulatory Authority, a authority which, as foreseen, monitors exactly what is going on in the port. Article 3(9) refers to a minimum level of TEUs traffic, which is three hundred thousand for the first nine years, and we will have an increase gradually that will reach the six hundred thousand TEUs. In 2017 we were about four hundred thousand containers. I come to Article 6(7) where Problems 1 and 2 in consultation with the municipality will be used to develop cultural activities. There the Thessaloniki Festival will also have a share of this. As you know, the main purpose of the port is to connect land to the sea and the rest are very useful, but it is not the main element, which must employ a port, namely cultural. As far as Article 7 is concerned, it is precisely in the 'investment programme' which I have mentioned. And that here, of course, it has been under investment and the multipathic Problem 6, where particular beams have been postponed for so many years, so that they can be completed in the first seven years. In Article 10, as I have said, we have three fees fixed by intervention of the State in respect of shipping charges. In Article 14 we have the audit procedure, just as we have and have annual reports, which must be done four months after the end of each reference period. The whole period has been separated until 2051 in reference periods. In Article 16 we have the criminal clauses in cases of breaches of the investor's obligations, which will lead to the non-compliance of the agreed clauses. And Article 18 provides for a guarantee letter of EUR 10 000 000 and EUR 20 000 000 for an additional guarantee letter of good execution by a bank accepted by the Greek State. The whole of the articles of the contract shall be thirty. And we also have a large set of annexes which give details of what has been agreed and which refer to the operation of the port by 2051. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u74	Mr Colleague, when you get the Minutes, make a correction: I think that Article 18, which you said, is in the annex. The bill has 12 articles. The rest is in the Annex. Typical is the point, but because you said it was an article 18, it must be in the annex.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u75	That's right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Placiotakis, wait a minute, sit down, because I want your consent. I will make a proposal that I think will make it easier for all the rapporteurs. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we give Mr Vitsa the floor for five minutes to present his amendment. And because the debate is a single one, you have a picture of what this amendment is. I have also asked him to stay five more minutes to ask some clarification if you want. As far as I can see, we agree and I think it is more practical for you too. Mr Minister, you have the floor for five minutes for your amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. And I thank Mr. Plackatokis too. The amendment with a general number 1484 and a special number 31 relates to the extension of the submarine programme by EUR 18,800,000. I will tell you a very fast history: it is known that in October 2014 and early 2015, i.e. until the first semester, the four submarines were launched. Since the second half of 2015, three of the four submarines have been delivered to the Navy for operational use. In early 2018, the fourth, the ‘KATSONIS’ was handed over. This gives us a very important superpower in the Aegean. There are work to complete these submarines. These work relates to settings and testing of propulsion engines, activation of anaerobic propulsion, upgrade requirements of multi-system software and some loose ends in the work and settings concerning tissues and others. There are similar issues for accompanying ships. That's the first one, the reasoning. At the same time, as you know, we are waiting for the decision of the Athens Court of First Instance on forced management of the "Greek Shipyards S.A.", i.e. the Scaramaga shipyards. It should normally have gone out in December 2017. It hasn't come out by now. We are also waiting for this process. All this work will be done at Scaramaga Shipyards, so at least we suggest. The cost is: from 18,800,000, 13,600,000 is payroll, 1,200,000 is operating costs and 4,000,000 is technical support, materials for the completion of the programme and for the maintenance of the escorts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Minister. From New Democracy, I can see that a colleague doesn't want to ask a question. From the Democratic Reconciliation?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u79	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u80	Here you go, Mr. Carras. A brief, sharp question, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u81	It has already been made known in connection with the judgment of the Court of Justice, the Single-member Court of First Instance, which is expected. If it is issued in the interim, which should reasonably have been issued, will it affect this contract, which the Hellenic Navy has done for integration, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u82	That's the question. Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u83	I have many, but I do not want this debate to be opened now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u84	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. It is very simple: the programme itself will not affect it or adapt it. It'll be over. Besides, it's a semester program. If it's published, that's the best. He'll probably take another form, as you understand, but the money will be the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Kouzeli, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u87	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Delis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u89	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u90	Soon as the question is. I don't give time. I trust you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I was, I was, incidentally, present in a bill that was tabled six months ago, a corresponding amendment, I think last August. Is that how we're going? Every six months, will you bring in an amendment to the Scaramaga shipyard? Is there any prospect? Can you tell us any prospects for the shipyard? For the workers? Because the situation is dramatic. I'll see you then at our location.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u92	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u93	The Greek State has submitted an application to the Athens Court of First Instance in accordance with the procedural procedures to get the Scaramaga shipyard under compulsory special management.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u94	Clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u95	Clearing in operation. That is the main issue. You know that once the decision is taken, it will take a one-year process. A whole plan has been submitted with what is going to happen with the shipyard. There have also been discussions with the workers, not only at union level but also with the workers themselves. The last thing I thought was last Friday night. There's an agreement with any differences. It's important that he's leaving Safah's hands and he's coming to our responsibility. That is the main issue. So the perspective exists. The effort is to keep the yard open and in operation and to be able to do business. That's the basic thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u96	We're closing with Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Minister, if you reject the request from the court, how will you react? What are the measures that will follow? That's my first question. My second question is this. Dear Mr Vitsa, but also the acceding ministers who in your bill are part of this amendment, Mr Kurublis and Mr Santorinier, do you not fear that you will be before a committee of inquiry? When the contract on submarines was discussed in this Chamber in 2012 and 2013, Mr. Tsipras said "I ask for consideration and we will see Venizelos go up the steps of justice". Now what's going on? Do you go up the stairs of justice or do you go down? When did you tell us things that didn't work out? 2013 or today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u98	The question is recorded. It is irrelevant, however, to the amendment. You are replying to the question about the amendment. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u99	Mr Amyuras, we are, rather or defeat, surely we will have a success in what we have done. But there are other procedural and procedural possibilities that we will use. That's the first thing. Since you gave me the opportunity - I will not speak in detail - to tell you that I am not afraid. When I say I'm not scared to solve it from now on, I mean I know what I've done. For me it is enough that I have done, that is, that we have saved the shipyards as a government, that we have them in operation, that workers are paid. In this sense, no matter what the threat is, I do not think I will be afraid of her. Not from you. From anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u100	It's just scandalous.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u101	We're closed. After all, Mr. Amyras practically read. Thank you, Minister. And now Mr Plakatakis, rapporteur for the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a long day today. I am pleased that after many years of delays, stranglers, existential searches and doubts, the SYRIZA executives, in particular Mr Kourublis, are adopting a liberal policy, which helps to develop and modernise the Greek economy. It is very important that the last remnants of communism in this country, even after the troika pressures and political relics, land in reality and seek political realism. Yesterday's wars with every investment in the country brought about a convention that you know very well about, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that we had fought in the past. What are you doing in this government's decision? You confirm our policy and recognise the correctness of our political choices. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to make it clear from the outset that we agree on the general framework of this policy, and that is why we support the political choice of granting the port to Thessaloniki. We cannot, however, support the weaknesses of this convention, which are the result of the wrong choices made by the government. First of all, Minister, you were two years late, resulting in the loss of income, the loss of investment and the loss of jobs for the Greek economy. The expected benefits refer to a number of estimates of revenues of hundreds of millions of euros, net profits for the public, without any specific reference to where these estimates are based. There is only one note derived from an IOBE study. In the same context, without the submission of studies and data, the ICTF speaks arbitrarily of the overall benefit of the EUR 1.1 billion granted. In particular, what's he doing? It totals the direct price of 232m euros, representing 67% of the shares in the EAF, 180m euros, 170m euros from 3.5% of the annual turnover, but also estimated unknown investments by 2051. Also, for the distribution of 3.5% to the Municipality of Thessaloniki and Ampelokia Menemis, there is absolutely no mention of what criteria this allocation will be. Will it be done on the basis of qualitative, environmental and population criteria? No commitment or response at all. Mr Minister, you have also spoken about the issue of concessions or concessions. In fact, you said that the next privatizations in the country's regional ports would be carried out in the form of concessions. I ask you: do you have any specific study that proves that deprivation by means of total concessions is less investment than retreat? If an investor offers more money on the issue of total concessions or moves to privatisation through an increase in equity or a sale of equity, what are you going to do? You will say 'no, will I proceed in the form of concessions'. That is why I told you that when you speak in this Chamber, you will speak with studies, you will speak with information, so that you can make the most accurate decision on our national interests. Minister, because you also spoke of the 2008 competition, which was almost complete - there was a bid from Hutchison, you know that very well, at a price of about EUR 400 million and so much for investments - that was not because there was just government change. You know very well that at this time there was a climate of uninterrupted scandalology and you also know very well that at that time the whole of Antipoliticism was 'in the bars'. No one then wanted privatization. You arrived at the point where you said, "We made progress in the privatization of the port of Thessaloniki because it was devalued". So, at the port of Piraeus, what exactly do you want to do? To apply the model of the People's Republic of Management of the Port of Maduro type? Answer me, Minister. I come from a point of view: who will follow the contract? We didn't get any answers at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u103	Didn't you get an answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u104	Let me finish. You'll answer later. You've given us the responsibilities of ZAT and RAL. You know, this choice of yours has caused me even greater concern and even greater confusion. And because the practice of the ADA to date does not make us optimistic, Mr Minister, we want no problems to be created in the programme of compulsory investment. Of course, IAL should not create bureaucratic problems, as it does at the port of Piraeus, where one intervenes in the public consultation for the Piraeus masterplan, as if it were not required, because this procedure is illegal. Under the law, the Secretariat-General for Maritime Investments, but also the ESAS, have competence. Also, yesterday, by decision of the commander of IAL, he invites the EGH to consult. Because, Minister, Mr Dritsas - I do not see him in this Chamber - said that what has been done in the country by the AAL has not been done in the past twenty or thirty years, indeed, never happened before. Nowhere does the adoption of a maritime safety decision, nor does it refer to the question of the application of the provisions of Law 2881/2001. The word'monitoring', i.e. purely supervisory competence, is simply mentioned. I think that we have developed this twenty-eight Members of the New Democracy, with timely questions, to the relevant Minister, with regard to the alkyons shipwreck, but also to the removal and destruction of the "PANAYIA". Suddenly, what did you discover? You've discovered that all these shipwrecks are being done harmlessly for the public. Of course, in the case of Panagios Agiaou, why was his removal and destruction called for - and this, of course, is unjustified for the public - by the port authority and not by the IAL, as in the case of the ‘ALKYON’, if the competence, according to the claims made by the appointed commander of the AAL, has come to it? And how, finally, is ‘indeed’ to the public the grant of some two and a half thousand tonnes of cracks, without covering public expenditure to date, increasing by 10% for this ship? Not to mention, of course, the Stalinist type of organization and action of the AAL, as regards the part of the transfers and distractions. And really, Minister, I don't understand why you finally set up the DAL. Isn't ral and her responsibilities enough? Does the requirement of the Union framework with the establishment of the RAL not be met, the existence of the Independent Public Authority for the control of the operation of ports? Is it not enough for the Port Authority and its competence to adopt the institutional framework of the regulatory decisions it has adopted for decades to operate the ports or, on the other hand, to set up the IAL to saw the operation and responsibilities of the Port Authority and the port authorities? [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] I would like, Minister, to be clear on this point. The New Democracy, the next New Democracy government, the first thing it will do is abolish the DAL. Because from its practice to this day, the bureaucratic problems it poses, in general, particularly in the investment block, I think another should be its role. Its role should be flexible, not constantly creating obstacles, especially at the level of investment implementation. I now come to the part of the transfer. You told us that there would also be transfers in the Port Authority of Thessaloniki as in the PPA. Fifty-three requests for transfers to the Piraeus Port Agency have been submitted, and the MCAs should be issued with the relevant ministries. And I ask you: why has no transfer been made, despite the government's announcements? And I now come to a big issue about the operation of the port of Thessaloniki, which is the abolition of the third shift of customs at the port of Thessaloniki. You are well aware of that, and we have said so in committee. Large-scale cyclical shipping has been restructured because of this fact, in other words, to avoid long delays, until the loading has been completed. Some of these companies have also imposed an extraordinary larvae. What's the result? Exporters lose markets, mainly due to delayed deliveries, as is, of course, also delayed in importing raw materials and other goods. Imagine where we have arrived so that exporters are forced to pay trucks and send goods for export from Piraeus rather than waiting when they will be handled by the Greek Port Authority. Mr Kurubli, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, we in the New Democracy have no sticks, we are not intruded. First and foremost, we put Greece and the national interest. I hope the Minister will take the party blinds out and finally take the interest of the place. The New Democracy leaves part of the party interest and benefit. She has proved it, after all, many times in her long history. Our primary concern is the interests of the country, the recovery of the economy, the well-being of the Greek people. You have been late, so we urgently demanded and urgently demanded political change, so that New Democracy can finally take over the government of the country, in order to promote many such investments. Because we, Minister, believe them. That's our difference. You don't believe them. You are forced to implement them under the bundle of lenders, and that is why you are delaying and not implementing them in the way they should be done. And, of course, what we are interested in is getting the country out of the road and driving it back on the road to prosperity and progress. The New Democracy, as I have pointed out, is clearly in favour of the principle. After all, let us not forget that the concessions started at the government of Costas Karamanlis, they were also continued by the next government, and we have ensured, first and foremost, that we should not forget this - what goodwill is created by the privatizations eventually remains for the benefit of the Greek public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, too. We proceed with the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras. Mr. Carras, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. The concerns created when a contract for the exploitation and operation of rights in the area of the port of Thessaloniki is submitted to Parliament must be automatically answered. Unfortunately, they have not been answered so far. First question that was raised. The model chosen, the total concession, i.e. the transfer of the shares in the EGF, was the most interesting for the Greek economy, for the Greek state, but also for the development of the region, or should there be a model of individual activity considered? We have said that the granting of individual activities also creates the conditions for the public nature of a large port to be maintained. Because that is the need for full government supervision and control to be able to exist. So today he comes to Parliament and calls for the ratification of a contract, which is between the Greek state and the EGF - even the EGF is public - and all this is based on a market-purchase agreement, which contains the commitments, an ex-corporation agreement, if you want to say it legally, the commitments between the Greek State as a majority shareholder - of the GOI in this case - and the preferred buyer. I would, at least, expect the sale agreement to accompany the deposit of the concession in the House, so that we can see what the special agreements are, beyond that, between the Greek State as a majority shareholder and the preferred buyer. I hope that the Ministers will bring it to the House by the end of the debate, so that we can see what it is hiding or what it is not. So, I think that makes the reservations. At the same time, when we were finishing the issues of the PPA and the EGF, the government suddenly announced that it was ending the concession model, the sale of the ports, and the model of concession of activities and a separate model for each port, for development, is beginning to prevail. Questions next, then. When we talk about the port of Thessaloniki we refer to an axis which at least includes the port of Alexandroupolis and also the port of Kavala, which are important for the activities of eastern Macedonia and Thrace. The port of Alexandroupolis, of course, from what we know or announced, is intended for a station for transhipment of liquefied natural gas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u107	And not just.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u108	It is intended to be said, Mr Colleague, that we do not know what is going on. So the questions I have put to the committee have not been answered. Similarly, it does not give me the necessary answers, and the explanatory statement, which stands to highlight some economic parameters in itself, is one of the ones that is one-sided. So I will bring two - three examples, which I am concerned with. We are talking about a price of 231 or 232 million, which, of course, will be paid at any time if it has not been paid, but this is very easy for anyone to ensure, since it will own the shares in the EGF, which they will be able to pledge. I do not have the stock-purchase agreement, and I therefore ask her, Minister, to see if she can empower them, borrow and "Yiannis to buy and Yiannis to drink". Because if I have the shares and can amplify them, I will easily borrow from any large foreign bank. As far as the Greek banks are concerned, we are of course aware of their situation. I don't think it's easy in today's circumstances. So let's go down to a price of 231 million. There is no big difference and no longer a premium from the stock market value at least 24% of current shares listed on the Athens Stock Exchange. So what's the benefit? Something else. In fact, I was expecting an honest answer to put myself in this regard. I read the financial data of the EGF. I've talked about it with Mr. Marda. It says, therefore, that the contract that is submitted will invest from 180 million to a better amount within the first seven years. Is the question raised: Will the investor only make the investments with his own money or can he make use of all 65 million of the reserve investments - the exact amount is EUR 65,044 887 - which is within the EAF fund? She's picking up the company, picking up her cash register. So, if this is the case, or we will have to remove from what is announced, at least 180 for investments or 231 for the price, EUR 65 000 000. That's a good gift. In addition to this, issues that are raised and which I have not received any answers are the following. By law, the GOI is currently the owner of the shares, 67% transferred. The company is a subsidiary of the Greek Participating Company, however. That's where we have a thing. It is a memorandum of the obligation to set up and operate this company, but in addition, the current SYRIZA - ANEL government has legislated something, that all the money of the deprivation will not go to the Memorandum. The 50% figure will be maintained, and I refer to L.4389, which provides for this, and which is the same law that laid down the responsibilities of RAL and AAL. It therefore says in Article 199 and in Article 200 that 50% of the Company's revenues - state-owned company under the private law that operates - will be available as dividends to the Greek State. The first 50% will go to serve the Memorandum of Debt, the rest as a dividend to the Greek State, for the Public Investment Project. That's what I didn't hear. Nor did the Minister for Finance come to tell us what he will do about it or what he has done, so that the House at least knows about earlier privatizations - concessions. No answer. Silence and I can say dead silence, Mr President. A question is being raised at the moment. We say that, in fact, for the purpose of energising the contract, the connecting routes must have been built with the rail network and PATHE, so that the port can actually operate. I am therefore making a proposal at the moment, because the preferred investor, the new shareholder, can also use the argument that the state did not finish its obligations. If, therefore, we want to apply the obligation to make available for public investment 50% of the price for concessions - deprivation, first of all, to make available to the Programme for Public Investment in the Region of Macedonia, in order to build the connectors roads, rail and roads, so that it can operate the port and remove any arguments in the future, so that one cannot say that I have a suspension from the contract, because you have not built, Mr President. It is a proposal and I will be waiting for an answer to that, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going further, that's the general thing. The contract itself and the law leave me empty. I will give you another example, and I will go into the articles too, because I see that time is getting short of time. So are we saying in Article 8(4) that if the citizens, the users of the port service, the payments to the EGF - the private company - are to be charged with legal expenses, uncertainties and uncertainties? It can be transferred to the Greek State, it can be recorded in the Greek State's claims, according to the Public Revenue Collection Code, chasing the public debtor of the private company and making the State the company's collector. But I'll say something. The government can't collect its own money any more, 100,000, 000 have unregulated debts, as a result of inconvenience, will it also deal with that? Then is there any further malfunctioning of the financial services and of them? He'll have - he says - an administrative end. What's an administrative end? He goes on to say a small percentage that he can charge the public for the provision of this service. Why make it easier to do so? Why facilitate the new company? He's supposed to be developing the area. It comes to add value also because of the strategic point in which it is located. Are we going to provide her with all these facilities? Does the public actually bear more? One further question arises: I have seen nowhere if it can - I think legally speaking it can - the NGO, the new owner, transfer the shares and change the equity composition. A simple announcement I saw that there is a need to communicate to the public, which, of course, only has 7% now, so company law does not really take into account. He's the shareholder of the small minority. And it has to make a statement: That is where the shares can be transferred, transformed into a company, increased or reduced the share capital. Watch something. If the share capital is reduced by the private company, it will be repaid by the corresponding amount to the new shareholders and therefore the price of 231 million will be reduced, which is typically shown to be paid. That's why I didn't see any answers being given. All I have seen is that, with a number of articles, they are trying to balance between RAL and IAL, although, of course, the Minister and those services that the Ministry itself recommended, removes and retains its own responsibilities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] May I ask you, Mr President, for your minimum tolerance. Furthermore, I see that the Minister for Maritime Affairs is also becoming Minister for the Environment, because he maintains the possibility of adopting regulations, imposing environmental sanctions, which will arise at the port. I am referring to Article 6 in the cases referred to in paragraph 2, which is a lot, but in particular in the cases referred to in point (j), which also lays down administrative sanctions. So I come and say. On the one hand we have the DAL and the RAL. We'll see on the way. I do not want to criticise this point in particular. On the other hand, we have the Minister who holds authority. The surveillance, after all, who's gonna do it? That's my question. So who's going to do the surveillance at this port? Are they going to overlap with each other and therefore there will be no surveillance? Take this into account, and that's why we've been dealing with it along the way. So I think, with these few features, which I have been able to point out, due to the short time, that this convention, beyond our disagreement with the choice of the overall concession method, is an incomplete contract. It is, of course, a convention which has been imposed, if we read introductorys and why it must be ratified by law. We understand that we do not serve the interests of the Greek state. Perhaps we do not serve the interests of those who benefit from the company's services or use them, i.e. users. But, in any case, it is a contract which, unfortunately - I must describe it - has a degree of clandestineness - I do not know how it was negotiated, I do not know how it was done - and instead of being a power of the Greek state, is a contract which was imposed. I wait until the end of the debate, Minister, to deposit the stock-purchase contract. As long as you do not testify, I have not received any answer to my questions. Mr President, thank you for the practical and financial details of the company "The Port Authority of Thessaloniki".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u110	Please, Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u111	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u112	I want to say two things, Mr President. I am not going to employ this House. I accept the amendment tabled by Mr Vitsats, and I would like to say to Mr Carras that he surprised me today. I've known Mr. Carras for many years. He's a senior lawyer, a man studied. Mr. Carras, don't you know the difference between the overcrowd and the S.H.I.E.L.D.? The HICP, Mr. Carras, when he sells, all the money goes to the debt. If we don't know that, then how do we say we came to study? If we don't know the difference, how then do many refer to the difference in the surplus fund? In the case of the surplus fund 50% of what it sells goes to debt and 50% goes to investment. We choose and take.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u113	For a very short time, Mr President, I ask for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u114	Please, Mr. Carras, not an interactive conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u115	No, not at all. I want to make a 30-second observation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u116	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u117	I'll say something. The excess is the parent company of the GOI. Therefore, what the GOI receives is channelled there. She's a mother.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Carras, don't insist. It's not like that. Expose.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u119	I'll insist. I have the law. I'm filing him right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u120	It won't solve the problem now. Minister and Mr Carras, we will not solve the problem right now. Keep your opinions. We're not going to solve the problem now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u121	Don't insist. It's not like that. The difference is what I tell you, Mr. Carras. Look at it and come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u122	I will testify to the law for colleagues' knowledge.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Kouzilos, special speaker of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we sell - you sell - the second largest port in the country with great strategic importance, especially nowadays. In the explanatory statement you say that the EGH will be integrated into a wider transport network and its central role in the Balkan Peninsula and the Eastern Mediterranean will be developed. A wider geographical and strategic shopping mall is being created and you are selling this. The LGBT press release, so that those who listen and those who care: What has been done so far can understand? The New Democracy tried to sell it to the Americans. That deal was there. SYRIZA's coming in and the following ELTH press release comes out. We are always talking with data: "Visiting Member of the German Parliament of the SPD to the OLTH, accompanied by the Deputy Consul-General of Germany". And they show very great interest in the sale of the EGF in the German fund. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Kouzilos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On 21-12-2017 there is a press release of the EGF that the EGF is sold to the consortium. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Kouzilos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Nothing's random. New Democracy went to do the deal with the Americans, the Americans retired, the deal didn't happen, and now you're coming, according to your Memorandum promises and doing this thing. However, we also have a press release of FMYLE on 12-9-2016, in which you said no port would be sold. That's what you were saying. What does this press release say? It says that the EGF is not gifted and is not dived. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. It is stated in the explanatory statement that it is of strategic importance and that the governments concerned did not upgrade the EGF. So you admit to it or incompetence or inappropriateness. Pick what of the two and who the incompetent were. And if there was a point, why didn't anyone go to the D.A.? And don't forget that a lot of people who were in PASOK then, if you admit feasibility, are now in SYRIZA. You also say that it has been examined, but it has been rejected that it might be used through concessions, that is, international practice, that is to say, in all the ports of the world. I have told you from the committee to bring us this study, to see the whole world, to see the whole Parliament, to see why it has been rejected and to speak with figures and figures. It was rejected, however, because it was a Memorandum of Understanding and here you received the specific dowry from New Democracy and the PASOK. This Memorandum of Understanding you took it from New Democracy and the PASOK. And it made me very impressed before what PASOK said. What did he say? That he doesn't vote for it? What brought the same thing into the memorial? We're going to be totally crazy here! In fact, the specific policy you are following - why were you talking about thunder policy when you were in the opposition - what is it? Liberal? Tetchy? How do you characterize it? Follow exactly the same policy, follow the memorial policy, follow the policy of exposing the New Democracy and PASOK, precisely the same one. It is what you said, that no port will be sold. I have an EGF press release in 2017, which says that 2017 is a landmark year - I present it for the Minutes - and it says that in 2017 there was an increase of 32% in turnover, in container handling an increase of 30%, in gross profit of 58%, in operating profits of 54%, in cash assets were EUR 90 million, in loans of 0 euros. And you're selling it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Kouzilos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If you consider this a success and a great deal, what can we say? But here you forget another thing: When you became a government in parliamentary control - protocol number 1754, date 16-4-2015, fresh government then - you said: 'The road to privatisation, based on the plans of the previous Memorandum of Understanding' - why are you? - "It is nothing but a path of divestment of public wealth." So, what do you guys do now? You're divesting public wealth? You say that. Parliamentary control. Developmental social benefit no one expects. If you sell the Port of Thessaloniki, there will be no benefit. There's nowhere in society. Unlike the destructive one-way of divesting the previous governments, is that not what you are doing now? In April 2015, you became government. Your answer, gentlemen of SYRIZA: You're working on, he says, drawings to have the best result for the EAT. That's your result. But you said something else that there would be competition between the ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki. We're gonna take down this legend, gentlemen. Let's go see what the Competition Committee said, because that is very interesting. It does not fall within the competence of the Hellenic Competition Commission, because the ‘DIEP’ and the ‘BELTERRA INVESTMENTS Ltd’ of Savvidis, which is within a consortium shape to which the port is granted, is a fund. So because they don't have any competition, we don't look into it. It's okay. However, we also have a third company, the French 'Terminal LINK', which has fourteen ports, a subsidiary of 'CMA', the French company which controls too many ports with shipping companies, etc., has strategic cooperation with 'CHINA Merchant', which is a subsidiary of 'COSCO'. Now how do you explain that? Is there going to be any competition? In fact, the state 'COSCO' with the state's 'CHINA MERCHANT', which put inside the French, whom they have bought at 58%. What do you think? That there's actually going to be competition. We brought a consortium in which the German company has a French share and Savvides has a German percentage. You consider this to be competition and consider that it is not deal. No, you didn't make such a deal! But it is a question of what ports they control. This fund, this group controls ports in Turkey, Belgium, Romania. You say that will develop in the wider region. It's a monopoly, gentlemen. These are the things you were calling for as an opposition, which you condemned as an opposition. So this myth you said is two competitive ports now, Piraeus and Thessaloniki. We also have the FMYLE press release dated 8 March 2017 entitled “Full confirmation of the workers for drunkenness, with a scandal smell, depreciation and sale of the EGF”. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Kouzilos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] With OMYLE once you were together, you lifted banners, shouting 'the ports will not be sold!' Now you see what press releases are pulling you off. Now let's go to the other little thing. The General Accounting Office of the State expects benefits, mainly relating to revenue from the collection of part of the EAF shares. They're expected. We're not getting it. Even for the Greek state, we don't know what the Greek State has collected. The Treasury doesn't talk, it doesn't say anything. The S.H.I.E.L.D. sang some things, but did not say percentages, what exactly has been collected from the sale of the EAT. So we're waiting here, and we'll see. According to the GOI on March 24, 2017, the binding bids made by this specific fund - a consortium you say so - the price of the share was about 20 euros that month. What's the matter? That according to your own studies and calculations, you are talking about 34 euros a share. No matter how much money enters, no matter what happens, the money in question will go to debt. So there's no growth, there's nothing going to the Greek people. Article 5. Administrative and regulatory functions. In essence, provisions which are incompatible with the new ownership regime of the EGF are being abolished. So the new management board will do whatever it wants. Article 12. Any general and specific provisions of the law, which are contrary to the provisions of this Law or which regulates matters similar to those of this law, shall not be in force if it relates to the subjectmatter of the ratified concession. All of this is in the specific international conventions. The "fly" in it too, but in fact what you are doing is to serve 'COSCO'. All this is because 'COSCO' will be the strong player in our ports again. Taxation. Here comes the laughter. The EGF will not be taxed, Article 11(1), because it is public property. What public property? If you're selling them. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] I'm going to need the time of my dentistry, Mr. President. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Article 11. You say that it will be given to the local society with KYA, that many benefits will be given, mainly to the Municipality of Thessaloniki and Meneme. From the PPA Convention - and I told you in committee - we have not seen anything from any municipality. All you're doing is making fun of yourself. Article 12. It refers to the new management board, which will be controlled by these people, with the specific interests, the Staff Regulations and KEOL, the Internal Organisation and Operation Regulations. They'll rebuild it, just like the PPA did. The New Democracy has to say on this sale: 'Why did we not accept the offer then and why did you change the data?' And I ask, "Why didn't you then sell the lot?" It's just that this American company was backing up. We see, however, that you are pursuing exactly the same policy. I shall use a few words of SYRIZA: "By means of compromise with stubbornness, we are making progress on the commitments that you have already had, outside our planning targeting, but with rules. Theodoros Dritsas". There is no such model in Europe, because as the New Democracy said, who is selling? Follow the sales model. He said it was followed everywhere. But there's nowhere. Withdrawals are everywhere in the world. There is only one thing in Greece. We're originalizing. This development is a product of the country's bankruptcy, the product of the crisis, the product of the commitments made by our country to debt. No, gentlemen, our country does not undertake debt commitments. You're the ones who took it. You accepted the debt and you are opposed to what you were saying. I conclude by saying that you admit that you have been defeated, you have compromised ideologically and politically, gentlemen of SYRIZA. In fact, what you're doing is what you've denounced before. You're serving state capitalism. These are your words, gentlemen. As the People's Association - Golden Dawn, we state that we believe in the public nature of our ports. We do not accept the sale of any of our ports because they follow another ten, and I repeat that you have lost, lost, compromised ideologically and politically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u125	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme "Research and we are discussing Governor Ioannis Kapodistrias", which organizes the Foundation, twenty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 3rd High School of Ilioupoli. The House, guys, welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u126	Thank you. I shall start vice versa, Mr President: Scaramaga shipping. I think the Minister, Mr Vitsas, who has tabled this amendment, is absent, but it is customary every six months that the government majority should table an amendment of this kind, except that the situation in Scaramaga Shipyards, which is now in existence, is unacceptable as well as tragic. This is the work of the policy of all the governments so far and of SYRIZA, that is, a task of policy, which served and continues to serve the more general business plans in the shipbuilding sector. Result? The Arab-German monopolies looted the Shipyard, accepted over half of the jobs and in 2014, taken over by the Ministry of Defence, the employees' wages were reduced by at least 35%, and individual labour contracts were imposed on them. At the same time, today, now that we are talking, the Shipyard is devalued and wasted every day that it passes and the workers of course live in a lasting uncertainty. Suffice it to say they haven't been paid yet for this year. We asked the Minister responsible about the prospect of the Scaramaga Shipyard. He replied that the prospect is the liquidation of the company in question. That does not sound so positive. I guess it sounds like a threat to a certain kind of padlock. I'll come to the bill now. With today's bill, the government amends, revises - the same - the Convention with which the port of Thessaloniki was awarded to MLTH SA. Why? Because this is the last step and one of the main conditions for the complete completion of the privatisation of the port of Thessaloniki, that is to say, for the majority of the EGF shares to pass to the private consortium which the government has chosen as the new bosses of the port. You say this and write it openly in the explanatory memorandum to the draft bill, saying: 'The amendment to the concession agreement between the State and the Hellenic Republic. is a fundamental condition for the emergence of private investment interests’. Of course, this has gone too far and this private interest has not only been manifested, but it has already been announced since the competition and the new owner of the port, which of course requires the port to be taken clean and free from obligations on the workers and the people of Thessaloniki. This requirement comes to satisfy today's bill and, as is apparent from the debate on the bill in committees, but also today, all urban parties agree and vote for the privatisation of the port of Thessaloniki, as you agree and vote for the memoranda, European Union directives and all privatisations and, more generally, any measure that promotes competitiveness and shields the profitability of business groups. This, however, is precisely the strongest ongoing confirmation of the strategic symposium of all urban parties over secondary divisions and individual differences in the Coupling with Anti-Population. This strategic symposium of urban parties is reflected in the privatizations that extend everywhere, where the capitalist profit law applies, and it is not due, of course, to some neoliberal idealism, as some people have said yet. You see, in order to get the exploitation machine of capitalist profitability - that is what you say "development" - it is not enough for the wild anti-grass and anti-grass measures that you vote and maintain, taking the spoon from the other one, and throwing the price of the labour force into Tartaras. You need all this, of course, but it is not enough, because it is not just fertilizer, but the field must also be found. In other words, they must be found and released from the state bonds - as the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Plakkatakis, said, 'the last communist remnants'. Mr. Placiotakis, were the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, which had the ports and their agencies state-owned, Communist governments? That sounds like incredible things. So these areas must be liberated from state bonds and those business areas in those sectors and sectors of the economy, where, of course, the business groups can invest and certainly have guaranteed profits, with the smallest risk possible. Given the overcompensated profits of Greek and foreign capitalists since the previous growth period, which are desperately seeking profitable investment outlets, we easily understand why, all urban parties are so passionately serving the policy of privatisation in ports, airports, railways, energy, everywhere, even in social services. Therefore, no compromise was made by the current government on the issue of privatisation. From the moment she put herself in the service of the bourgeoisie and even from the post of the government, it was quite logical to continue the privatisations she complained of before, even to the point of taking over the property of this policy, to grasp that she is doing better than the previous ones and, of course, to take credit for capital. Where's he gonna get better anyway? In short, neither good nor bad privatizations exist. There are only privatizations and these are today the need for capital and, of course, the people, in a thousand ways, pay them. Just like this is the privatisation of the port of Thessaloniki, which is completed by SYRIZA, no matter how much he tries to hide it with the zipper of fair growth, from which he will allegedly benefit everyone. In fact, it implements the planning of the bourgeoisie. It is a privatization that obeys the general strategic choices of the European Union which, in addition to the profitability of business groups, also forms part of the overall imperialist planning in the area for geostrategic control of areas and roads for the transport of goods and energy, of course, which also trigger tensions in the region, as we see. At the same time, however, it also serves the designs of domestic capital for the conversion of Greece into a combined transport hub, which also seems clear from the investments, which are being promoted and included in the contract, such as the railway and road connection of the port to the rest of the transport network. This whole fever in the port and in the area of south-eastern Europe, of course, will bring enormous profits, except that these will not be for workers, but will be for business groups. That is why they celebrate the privatisation of the port in Thessaloniki, both the industrialists and exporters, the big traders and, of course, the government. They know something. The most important thing, however, that we must not forget, is that this is a particular region in northern Greece, where huge imperialist competitions are developing to control this region between the United States, the European Union, Russia and China. So, the role of the port of Thessaloniki - and not only this, but also the other ports, we remind the strong interest of the Americans and American ambassadors in Alexandroupolis and its port - is becoming very critical. We therefore understand why it is of great importance for the European Union and NATO as an economic, political and military centre and a staffer. We understand, however, and how dangerous it is to privatise a strategic gateway outside the country. It is crucial for the defence and security of the people and the country, and indeed, especially now, where the thermometer in the region is rising. The completion of the privatization of the port - we will call it - is at the expense of the people of Thessaloniki, at the expense of the people of the port, at the expense of the entire Greek people. There is going to be a reason for this in order to simplify basic goods consumed today by the people's family and transported through the port of Thessaloniki. There will be a reason to make work relations worse in the port and to destroy a number of self-employed people working around it. The government can cultivate expectations to the people of the city, but thousands of unemployed in Thessaloniki have nothing to expect. And the broken working rights, which both the collective redundancies and the limitations on the strike and the smashing of wages, will all be here to show the true face of your fair growth. A few examples are enough to prove the truth. There is no commitment in the bill to guarantee jobs and wages for workers, because this is contrary to Community legislation, since it is considered State aid. You say that clearly in the explanatory statement. You say: ‘However, a contractual commitment to a certain number of jobs or even levels of remuneration would be problematic in terms of state aid law’. So what does this notorious guarantee of labour rights, which you advertise, mean, and what is left of it? In accordance with Article 12(1), the collective agreement between FMYLE and LITH SA shall apply only until the end of this year until 31 December 2018. What's next? The private investor will be waiting for them to negotiate with him. The result is already seen in the new collective labour agreement, signed at Piraeus with 'COSCO', which the Piraeus collective agreement brought new losses in wages and further overturns in labour relations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need some time, too, Mr. President. Thank you. Now not to talk - we will say this once again - about the mockery of the reintroduction of the tenth and fourteenth wages, which goes to cloud. You know, the annual earnings are not increased, you simply increase the dividend and instead the twelve is fourteen. This does not, however, constitute an increase. In addition to the economic size of the contract, however, it creates two speed workers in Piraeus, which also shows the future for Thessaloniki and mortgages the working future of the next employees and, of course, opens the way to the lousy real-time regime of the contractors. The same with the new General Staff Regulations imposed by 'COSCO' on workers in Piraeus: Increase in working time without payment. Repeal of the stable peninsula. Work all week, no overtime. Council Regulation (EEC) No 4064/89 of 20 December 1989 laying down provisions for implementing Dismissals with a mere termination of the contract. There are many other things like this, for which the employers' and government union celebrates. And all this, while 'COSCO' is recording record profits at this time. How did Mr. Kurublis describe this as all? Listen: 'Spring for the difficult memorial years before'. That's how he sees it. Yes, sir! That's fair growth, isn't it? Who are you kidding? Has the current government, like the previous one, not set the ground for unrighteous workers and now come to speak in the bill for the wise and legitimate employer, that is to say to bring back the well-known caramel of healthy entrepreneurs? Do you not shape the anti-legislative framework in this House every day and today? But that is precisely what the arsenal, the anti-legislative framework, will come and use it - and it is already exploiting it - every employer against the workers, and he will, from the top and the wise. And you will, of course, rejoice with him, like the Prime Minister in his recent visits to something like that. That's why we're talking about fraud and hypocrisy. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] In conclusion, there is no one, but no one, for the protection of the working wage rights of workers. This will be determined each time, in accordance with the interests and profitability of the private capitalist. And the big words about safeguarding jobs, industrial relations, etc. They're words, without any reflection. As for the much-advertised compensatory benefits in two municipalities in Thessaloniki, as well as the access and use of the Limanian 1 project, which, of course, is already being used for cultural activities by the Film Festival and not only and naturally not only for port activities, all these are ash in the eyes of the people of the region, in order to control its reactions. Only you know, for all of this, they will bring heavy responsibilities and the municipal authorities of Thessaloniki and the region and the labour centre and other bodies that, in one way or another, have broadly signed for the privatisation of the port. Not even for a moment will the people of Thessaloniki not believe the lies of the government and other urban parties, which support this privatisation and put back on the interests of large business groups. We, as a JRC, are of course voting against, because we consider this to be a negative development for workers and the people. And I ask - and we ask the people who are listening to us - can the port of Thessaloniki and in total the ports, the infrastructure of the country become a lever of real growth and prosperity for workers and people's families, offer a stable job with rights, become a lever of overall social and cultural development for all of the people in the region and for our country?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u127	Please, Mr. Delis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u128	I shall conclude, Mr President. Yeah. All this can be done as long as it is not exploited for the needs of competitiveness and the profitability of capital. Only then, the people themselves need to find themselves at the wheel of power and their power free of capitalist profit to organise social production and design it centrally and scientifically, giving it to the service of social needs. Socialism says that and it is the most necessary and mature thing in our barbaric times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to make some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u130	Here, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. These are five legislative improvements, mainly textual: First, in paragraph 7 of Article 3 of the draft law, the words ‘approximately five thousand fifty and fifteen square metres and fifteen in the square metre’ are replaced by ‘approximately five thousand fifty nine square metres and fifteen in the square metre’. Secondly, in the case of (d) paragraph 1 of Article 4 of the draft law in the words'safety and safety of navigation', the word 'and safety' is obviously deleted. Third, in the case of (b) paragraph 1 of Article 8 of the draft law, the words ‘in Article 1.2 of this Concession Convention’ are obviously added, ‘with this Law’. Fourth, in Article 9(4) of the draft law, the words ‘will be avenged by the courts of Thessaloniki during the ordinary procedure’ shall be replaced by ‘the courts of Thessaloniki shall be heard in the ordinary procedure’. Fifth, in the case of (b) paragraph 2 of Article 12 of the draft law in the words ‘(VAT S.A., EPE and G.E.M.M. 2979/20-05-2011)’ the word ‘VET’ shall be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u132	We proceed with the next special speaker, Mr. Lazarides, from the Independent Greeks. Here, Mr Lazarides, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Before going on to my comments on the bill, I would like to make a few comments about previous colleagues who have said some interesting things. I will begin by the spokesman of the New Democracy, who spoke about shipwrecks, etc. Indeed, it is a good idea what my colleague from New Democracy said - and I would suggest that you see it, Mr Minister - to set up a committee at the Ministry, which will take control of all the ports of the country, see where we have shipwrecks or where we have left-wing vessels, for how many years we have left over and what impact this has had on the environment. Because we are all aware that in all the ports of the country, and particularly in the areas of Keratini, Perama, the regions to Salamis, etc., dozens of vessels - not to say hundreds - are left-wing and half-wormed, so that the environment is polluted. And not just that, but that's for the citizens to be in danger too. I'm talking about amateur fishermen, professional fishermen, etc. It really is worth doing this, to see how they dealt with the case of the sea, the case of the 'ports' and the shipwrecks of the previous governments. We will be talking here about a few things that we have already said by the committee about the absolute abandonment of the previous governments. And I say that as a Thessalonician. Because the port of Thessaloniki, which is a dynamic port and gateway, as we have said many times, had completely abandoned it. Before we get to that, I would like to make a comment on the good fellow Member, the PASOK spokesman, who made a comparison with TIADED and the superstition. Mr. Colleague, I know you're an excellent legal officer. I'm an engineer. I would like to ask you to read both bills carefully. The TIAD, which you two parties voted for, says that whatever goes in there is only for sale. It's just for sale and for nothing else. It is binding, in other words, this. While the bill, which we voted on, and it's about public participations, the superstition says everything that goes in there is for use. He doesn't say anywhere and he doesn't commit anything that whatever goes in there is for sale. This is a substantial and great difference. And I come now with regard to the abandonment of the port of Thessaloniki: I told the committees that I was starting with the rail link, which is important. Because the port of Thessaloniki is a gateway to the country, the Balkans and the rest of Europe. Rail connection is important. What rail link does the port have? Suppressive. It is the rail link, which had already been made before World War II. After World War II it was maintained, due to the disasters of World War II and since then it has simply been maintained. There has been no renewal, no improvement, and that would be important. In fact, here we have some reports since 2012, where some bodies from Thessaloniki are proposing modernisation. And they convey the concerns of businessmen. He says: "The failure of the OSE, as well as of infrastructure in general, to support the transport project that the port of Thessaloniki can produce, can significantly reduce the price of the EATH during its privatisation." So, what do the businessmen and the players of Thessaloniki point out? That what they do, that they left Thessaloniki, will result in a fall in the price. However, the previous parties were not sensitive, but continued this policy of abandoning the Port Agency. We were told here the day before yesterday and the representatives of the operators, who heard them, that it is important for the transport of goods. I brought you some photos - time is vague - and some other evidence of the effectiveness and the way parties used to function in the past. I told you about a bridge in the port whose construction began to connect the port with PTHEE, that is, the national road, Patras - Athens - Thessaloniki - Evzones. This bridge is not connected anywhere. It's really a monument of irresponsibility, a monument of clandestineness. And here I am bringing "Thess News", which are journalists of Thessaloniki. It says what the four major projects have left incomplete. Four are bridges and all in Thessaloniki. These are the link between the port of Thessaloniki and the Industrial Park of Kalochori and the highway of PTHEE and the Egnatia Road. It continues with the second incomplete work, that is to say, the second bridge that is not connected anywhere. The unified road means a bridge with Halkidona in the industrial area of Sindu. The unequal bridge of Nea Magnesia, as well as the connection of Kalochorio to the Ennatia Street. Four bridges! I'll testify photos. It explains it here. This is the unequal bridge of New Magnesia that is built before 2010. That government did not rule. Of course, this is where the reporter says that there is no risk to the existing structure, since there is no access to the bridge. So don't worry. It's okay. That's great. So I come to the next photo and it says: 'The subject to the relevant ministries... etc.'. He also says: "As the Mayor Delta points out...". Mayor Delta is on the verge of the New Democracy. It is not that government. And he says: "We have raised the issue on several occasions with the relevant ministries and the Ennaia S.A. Street. by the administration of which...’. He then says: "We ask for the intervention of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport...". It asks for intervention from this government, because it was unconscious of the previous governments. It calls for the intervention of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Spiritzis, as well as the Minister for Macedonia and Thrace, Mr Tsarouhas, in order to proceed with the projects and not to become sceptical monuments for the generations coming. That's what Mr. Fotopoulos says. The mayor is friendly with the New Democracy. He did not find a response from the New Democracy and the PASOK, and he is now asking the current Government to correct what we have said and, next time, the uncertainties of the past. In another article, the press survey states: "The Fiji of the Municipality of Delta: projects that have remained in the middle due to a lack of funds". And he says: "The company, in response to questions... etc.". And take note now: “According to the company, all the work carried out on the Egnatia Road... total expenditure of 21 million including VAT has been paid.” In other words, 21 million were paid to connect the port to PATHE and it was not completed. In other words, these 21 million went to what we call 'bareli without the bottom'. Here I'd like to present you two pictures of this memorial torment. He's at the disposal of colleagues. It's worth seeing what happened. [[At this point, MP George Lazaridis submits for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As my colleague, SYRIZA's rapporteur, in addition to dismantling, said, we had a performance that did not honour the role and strategic importance of the Greek Port Authority. I am talking about economic performance, but also of the movement of goods, whether in terms of financial results or of the movement of goods. The present government, thanks to the way it dealt with the Port Agency, has managed to have the port in the last two years impressive results. In 2017 it had a record of decades, whether in terms of movement of goods or financial results. To be clearer here, I will give you some information. In 2017, three million five hundred ninety-eighty seventy-seven and one tons of conventional cargo were moved against three million three hundred twelve thousand in 2016. Let us point out here that in 2016 we had an increase compared to 2015 and in previous years. Here in 2017 we have an increase compared to 2016. It's an increase near 9%. Greater increase showed the bulk transit, 25.5%. We're talking about impressive sizes. At the same time, 12.3% increased the number of ships arriving in the port of Thessaloniki. Therefore, the numbers are impressive and really show the port agency's capacity. The agencies have submitted their views here and I am talking about the business world. The representative of the Chamber of Commerce, Mr Vlachoyannis, came to the committees. Mr Vlachoyannis was positive in terms of the contract. He said that it really is a positive contract, which will boost economic activity, trade and also, in general, the city's business activity. So did Mr Kabakis, the representative of the agents, who also spoke positively. Mr Kabakis, who represents the agents who are handling all this large volume of goods, also stressed this picture of abandonment. He stressed the lack of connection with the road network, so the big trucks, these repaired trucks, are forced to pass through Kalochori, which is a suburb, a village next to the port, which is borne by all this movement. This results in both the time delay and the financial burden of the agents. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the other hand, this substantiated rail link means that the railway cannot lift the daily load so that it can truly respond and solve the agents' hands. Time's up and I'm closing here, Mr. President. We told the committees and analysed it that this Convention is a positive convention, it is a convention that we are optimisticly seeing and the society of Thessaloniki and the whole business world and all of us Thessalonians. We are, therefore, positive in terms of both the principle and the articles of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Carras, what's going on? What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u137	Because my name was mentioned by the dear Mr. Lazaridis, not in the form of the dice...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u138	What was it about? They didn't notice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u139	Mr Lazaridis said that it was not accurate what I said that the surplus must make available a percentage of the price for investments. I would just like to remind you of this: since the GOI became a subsidiary of the U.S.A., which we gave to all the public property, it will henceforth follow the fate of the U.S. and the provisions of the U.S.O.S., rather than the old provisions on ICT. I therefore insist in my view that a percentage of the price should be made available for investments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, I would also like to speak for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u141	Okay. Everyone keeps their opinion, Mr. Lazarides. No interactive conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u143	Yeah, but we're not going to solve this problem here. You said your opinion, he said his opinion. That's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u144	Not even thirty seconds, Mr. President. You know I'm pitiful in the wording of my nights.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u145	I know, but it doesn't make any sense. Mr. Carras will ask for the floor again. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u146	Thank you. I would like to say to my fellow Member that, firstly, I insist on what I said and must read it. Secondly, this Convention, which we are talking about in the EGF, has a specific expiry date in 2051. So it has nothing to do with the ninety-nine years and the sale etc., which the opposition parties claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u147	Mr Saridis, special speaker of the Centroon Union, has spoken for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the future of the EGF lasted for eighteen years. He's grown up now and it's compulsory for us to go through the words in practice. It's time to stop mocking the Thessalonians and say some truths. The port, ladies and gentlemen, is leaving the hands of the Greek State because they have allowed it by their actions and by their omissions all, almost, the post-government governments. No government had understood its meaning, no government had understood its geopolitical significance, what its port meant for the city, what that port meant to Macedonia. For almost twenty years we have been discussing what needs to be done in Thessaloniki, for Thessaloniki, but without Thessaloniki. It doesn't stop life, you know, until we decide to find solutions to our problems. The city entered the ice, sunk, say it as you like, but the sure thing is that the economic life of Thessaloniki has and has loops around its neck. For eighteen years, the city’s port was left in its luck. Over the last ten years, it would be accurate to say that the port has been under collapse. There will be a proverb in the depreciation of the EGF and it will be added to the large series of problems of the city, which, as it has proved, no one has had the political will to solve. People wonder today why we are selling something that is proven profitable, as the JRC says. Why did we not maintain as Greek public ownership of our ports? The answer, ladies and gentlemen, is simple. Because of the lack of political will demonstrated in a systematic manner by all previous governments. In fact, not only did they not want to help the city, but they wanted to keep it in a political hostage, that is to say, to control it, constantly dependent on the Athenian, client state. That's the truth. And the evidence is, unfortunately, many. From OSTH to the metro works, even to the unknown paternity and origin of boots of western Thessaloniki. The problems of the city have never really concerned the Greek governments, and this is demonstrated by their length and endurance in time. Finally, it seems that the only thing that sought the domestic political system was to find a way for his representatives to maintain the city's problems, so that they have something to promise each year, once a year, when they visit the city's International Exhibition to promise. Thessalonians happen to things that are not easily perceived by the people of Athens. The mockery that the Thessalonians have tolerated on a number of issues that affect their everyday life has no precedent. The same goes for now. The same applies to the port. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are taking a step forward and we are only glad that something is finally changing, something that finally moves. But is this the right step to take? Under current conditions, as they have been shaped by the decades of political indifference, but also by the commitments of the memorandums, we have had no choice. This finding raises the question of how correct a choice can be when it is made under the extortion and pressure regime. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that we did not end up with our will and, following our decisions here, at the point where we are today. As well as being true, the city would not last much longer in this messed-up situation. Today we have the right to hope that with great effort and effort, even if the agreed port of Thessaloniki is respected, that is why the port begins a new course, in order to gain the rightful place it deserves, which is rightly deserved mainly because of its geostrategic importance. This course would be difficult and already the first serious issues have been recorded and we will be very concerned, especially us city MPs from all sides. First of all, we will have to deal with the problems that have already begun and are being recorded by the workers. We all know here that real guarantees for their future do not have, cannot be obtained. The only thing that ensures them is something that they have conquered on their own. It is their know-how and experience, their knowledge as workers in often difficult, difficult and problematic conditions. This is their property, that's what they've got to negotiate with. What about the collective agreements? The future will show. From there on, a battle is taking place to safeguard their rights, in which all the city's MPs and, of course, the government must have their allies. There are many other topics, such as the use of the Problem 1, how and on the basis of what criteria the two municipalities will share the anticipated fees, how quickly the investments needed by the port will be made, the connection with the Egnatia, rail connection. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to be clear and clear. Nothing ends today. On the contrary, today is where the struggle for the port of Thessaloniki begins, for an entire city. And along with the port, the city starts trying to claim what it deserves. We believe that with the completion and the metro projects the whole picture of the city will change. The sure thing is that if we, the elected representatives of the citizens, are to do the work we were sent to us to do here, to listen more, to speak less and to do more, to remove the obstacles, rather than create them, to correct the mistakes, instead of hiding them under the carpet, to avoid the nuisances of the past, then to have no doubt - I personally do not have - that the Thessalonians, the Macedonians will make you rub your eyes with the results that they can achieve. In closing my report, which is positive, i.e. the suggestion made by the Central Association, I would like to say that we are voting in favour of this draft law, as well as voting in favour of the amendment tabled by the Ministry of National Defence, because, as we are doing, we cannot do anything else to condemn the practice of the six months. We shall also be voting in favour of the amendment. To close, then, my suggestion and then my position at dawn yesterday for the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, for the political responsibilities that the political staff of the country have, for what they could do and have not done, I wonder how different the image would have been in Thessaloniki if the port had not been devalued over the years, how different it would have been for our Macedonia and how different our position today would be in negotiating the name of the neighbouring state with a strong port in our hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Mr. Kalafatis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank my colleague from the river. Mr Minister of Government SYRIZA - ANEL, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, welcome to the magic world of liberal ideology, the one you were rampant and laugh, Minister, from this step, but the reality is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u151	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u152	This world that you rabies fought a few years ago at the time of the careless revolutionary Left. I therefore welcome the new mutated liberal left into the world of reality. And no matter how much SYRIZA is trying with his rhetoric to keep his friends warm, you know, Minister, but your words and others say your actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u153	Well, they listen to you and me in Thessaloniki and keep it in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u154	And in this world of reality, Minister, anyway, no matter what you say, they remain. You are the ones who fought rabies every privatisation and this privatisation and you have now come, mutated on them, I mean as Minister - you were in the bars a few years ago and you will hear them - to carry out privatisations, which you called a sell-out up to a few years ago. But as I said to you, but your words and others say your actions. And in this world it's important, you know, to see what we're doing. Because, Minister, we are what we do, we are not what we say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u155	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u156	Today's parliamentary procedure is indeed a lot of historic ones, first of all in Thessaloniki and in central Macedonia. Finally, a development pillar in my town which, for many years and as a citizen and as a politician, I believe, should be left to the creative dynamics of this process to go ahead, reaches its implementation. For Thessaloniki and Central Macedonia itself, it is important because at last its role can create important growth opportunities and because it can also create opportunities to raise the local economy. It is an important tool to support other investment activities. It is important, not only for Thessaloniki and northern Greece, but it is also for the national economy and for the national interest, because the port of Thessaloniki is certainly a supranational, but also a cross-border, important development advantage which, if used effectively, can upgrade northern Greece, Thessaloniki, the country as a station for international transit trade, with obvious profits, geopolitically, economic and politically, contribute to the state funds huge revenues both through its productive activity and from capitalism and, of course, it can be a prone development polo even at the level of diplomatic, ladies and gentlemen, in bilateral relations with other countries, particularly neighbouring countries, and I will not go further into this. The third reason, however, is precisely what I told you in the preamble to my position, ladies and gentlemen. Because here we have the main revelation. We have a criminal privatisation. It's not like all the other privatizations. We had heard about ministers who with tears in the eyes sign the privatisations of airports in this regard. We have seen ministers apologize and beg for an apology essentially in the world, because poor SYRIZA ministers are forced to go ahead with privatisations that do not believe them. But that's very important, you know why? Because I have heard here a number of things about depreciation of the port of Thessaloniki in previous years by various colleagues. Where were you, ladies and gentlemen, when nine years ago the New Democracy Government tried to privatise the port of Thessaloniki with multiple benefits? Where were you when the government of Karamanlis was trying to privatise the port of Thessaloniki, not all, the container station and not for fifty years, but for thirty years? To bring 400 million, to keep the thousands of five hundred jobs, to create another thousand five hundred jobs. Do you know where all of you were, your comrades, left-wing, social democrats, socialists? In the bars, literally! In the bars of the port of Thessaloniki, literally. Hanged on the main door of the port of Thessaloniki, you demanded that the port not be sold. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Don't laugh, that's not a way to react.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u157	That's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u158	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u159	Minister, the image is there. There's a picture.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Kalafati, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u161	I shall conclude, Mr President. So today is a historic day, because apart from the fact that it is finally moving with one government that does not believe in privatisation - because we believe in privatisation, it is in our DNA that privatisations are, it is an important day that we believe will move forward - you need to explain and I have a series of practices here in relation to the first pier. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Kalafatis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The mayor of Thessaloniki has mentioned three or four times on the municipal council and told the people of Thessaloniki that the first pier would be given. In fact, Mr. Tsipras - he certainly knows how to speak politically - in 2016 he was bound by the ITH and did not say that he was giving the first pier to the Municipality of Thessaloniki, such as the very good friend of the government, Mr. Boutaris had told us that it would be done. He had spoken and said that he would be given to the people of Thessaloniki and of course Mr.Boutaris, Mayor of Thessaloniki, insisted on the municipal council that there is no possibility that the first pier would be given to the municipality of Thessaloniki. Finally, someone or the government or the mayor of Thessaloniki or both made fun of the people of Thessaloniki and demand an explanation for this. In this spirit, therefore, we as a clear force for progress, prosperity and development are moving forward and say, even now, even under these conditions, that the port of Thessaloniki is privatised.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirteen students and students and two educational sessions, from the 4th General School of Argyroupolis. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker of the river Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to speak in the debate on the surplus, in the dialogue between Mr Karras from the Democratic Alliance - I went to say alliance, but also as a coexistence - and Mr Lazarides from the ANELs. I would like to make it clear, therefore, that the superstate, so that the people who see us, and those who are involved here, and the three hundred, can also know more accurate information. The superstition known as L.4389/2016, i.e. the law applicable to the Memorandum of Tsipra-Kammenos, assumes in its arms almost the entire property of the country. Apart from the archaeological sites and NATURA areas, it has as a dowry the superstition run by foreigners. And what doesn't he have? It has seventy-two thousand properties all over the Greek territory. It also has twenty-three regional airports, ELVO in liquidation, OSE and building facilities, Athens Airport, Corinth Canal, Thessaloniki Central Market, HELEXPO, 34% of PPC etc. Not to say much, therefore, so that the children who have come to attend to us are also understood. Children, by 2115-life have, you have reached the hundred and more – the country will sell a piece - to strangers. Who are these strangers and what strangers are they? The supreme amount, based on the law passed by SYRIZA and ANELs, on the basis of L.4389, in Article 191...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u164	Is it possible in this House to say such disloyalties, Mr. Amyras? You're inexperienced.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u165	You will listen to me, Minister, and then say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u166	You're saying inconveniences.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u167	Here we will speak with articles and with what you have voted on, not with designations. Do you hear me, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u168	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u169	You're saying inconveniences all the time!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u170	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u171	If you don't know what you've voted for, it's your problem, not mine.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u172	The superstition doesn't sell. Read good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u173	Here's what you've voted on, Mr. Kurubli, you with your hands. Article 191: The Overseas Supervisory Board...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u174	But the superstition doesn't sell.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u175	Doesn't he sell? Let's hear about it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Amyras, I'll beg you for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u177	Read good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u178	What's he doing? Does he rent them then or does he give them for hospitality or do he do Airbnb? Are you going to drive us crazy?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u179	You're welcome, Mr. Amyras. Mr Kurublis, please do not spoil the procedure, because you know that I will give you the floor as soon as Mr Amyras is finished. Can this be the case? Mercy! Keep going, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u180	So find out. First of all, the superstate is run by the supervisory board, which is five years old. Who appoint the five members of the Supervisory Board? So listen. The two members, including the Chairperson of the Supervisory Board, shall be appointed by the Troika. That's clear. The three members are proposed by the Minister of Finance, but in order to be appointed, they must have the agreement of the Troika. One of the prisoners. Secondly, let us see, please, what is the dowry dowry of the U.S. and see what it will sell and what it will not sell, whether it will rent or host people. I refer to No 4512/2018. I have read you some of the Greek state's businesses, real estate and property values that go to the hug of the U.S. government. What does the superstition do with it? Have he got to look at them? What's he gonna say to make use of? So let's see about the use. Does Article 199 of the law say that you voted? So what does it say? He says that if the superstition sells, for example, the Central Market in Thessaloniki, right? - and get a price X, 50% of the price will go to creditors to repay Greece's debts to its creditors - part of the debts - and the remaining 50% - there's the key and there's the sensitive spot - says he'll go for investment again in any property he wants, in order, based on his value, so that when he sells it, he'll have greater real estate value. That's the reality. The laws you voted for say them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u181	That's not what they say. This is your conclusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u182	How?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u183	The'so that' is your conclusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u184	No, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u185	Please do not interrupt. Keep going, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u186	Do you know this paragraph (a) of the law, Article 199 of Law No.4389? I will read it to you to remember it to understand that what I'm telling you is the exact one. It says, therefore, that a part of the sale price or wherever it comes to the excess is attributed to the Greek State and - look, here is the crucial point - and is used by the Greek State for investments, which - paragraph 3 of Article 200 of this law - states.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u187	That's not what he's saying. Mr Amyras,'so that' is not included in the law. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u188	That's what the buck paragraph says. After I read you the law. But you made him the law. You voted for him. And I'm telling you what the law says. Anyway, we're going down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u189	It's his opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u190	So you're in favor of HIAD.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u191	The'so that' you said is your conclusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u192	Minister, it's his opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u193	What's he gonna say I'm in favor of HIAD? And the HICP has entered the superstition. Hasn't he?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u194	Mr. Amyras, let's get this over with. It is your view and view of your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u195	That's not the point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u196	Sustained. And it's both the government and the Prime Minister. You're not gonna make a deal now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u197	The superstition doesn't sell.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u198	They're going to debt. Don't we agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u199	He's not selling. Everything goes to debt. But everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u200	You're not gonna make a deal here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u201	They're going halfway to debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u202	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u203	That's what I told you before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u204	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u205	And the other 50% are reinvested in the same properties or in different, chosen by the management of the surplus fund to be sold. What do you say? I'm not saying anything different. That's exactly what we're saying. So why do you react?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u206	Like this. Now we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u207	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u208	I'm glad, but the procedure is not to agree in here, Mr. Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u209	I don't understand where we disagreed in the first place. Is that right? I didn't really get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u210	You are expressing yourself. Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u211	I read the laws and told you what the fate of any asset in the country is. He's getting into the superstition. It's over. Now we're going to the question of the NGO. Seventeen years have passed until we reach today's vote and privatization in substance in terms of public interest, of course, of the port of Thessaloniki. Why is all this in our country about the Arab? We also take into account that there is an antiquated legal framework for maritime and maritime activities in Greece. For example, the Code of Private Maritime Law has been the Code of Public Maritime Law since 1958, since 1973 with few updates. It is - I would say - unacceptable event for a maritime country, such as Greece, to stay so back in the regulation of the issues surrounding the sea and its activities. For us, for Thessaloniki - I have told you and for the committees - it is important to develop the port as a friendly area, of course, for investments with environmental protection. Environmental conditions must be respected up to antenna, since Thessaloniki suffers environmentally from fertilisers and rivers that bring to the Thermaikos all nitrates, from a thousand other causes of pollution. Therefore, it must not be imposed, but on the contrary, Thessaloniki must be reduced environmentally by developing the port on private bases and, as I have said, environmentally sound terms. The naturality of Thessaloniki and its coastal front must be demonstrated. At the same time, it needs to be upgraded to - what we have been saying for years - a major Balkan transit centre, in fact, rather than to words. The cultural nature of the city must also be demonstrated with events in Thektata 1, as well as with the development of maritime tourism. Anyone who goes to Thessaloniki will see too many rowers anymore. Previously, the rowers were athletes, because these boats are very easy to overturn. The so-called "coarse rowing" has now been developed, because the French have built some ships that are not overthrown and can be used by anyone - and are untrained in this regard - to enter this boat and row in the port of Thermaikos. It will be a wonderful experience, so long as the port and sea do not smell, it will not be coffee and it will not emerge - anyway - a deterrent picture. We say that the privatisation of the port of Thessaloniki will change the nature of the city and northern Greece and the country's position on the Balkan transport map, as long as a detailed infrastructure plan is followed and implemented to maximise and capitalise the results. It is a great responsibility for the private sector - the port - to mobilise all those investment measures so that the many sectors of the economy are also warmed directly, indirectly, or even satelliteally, to develop the port. Particular weight should also be given to attracting the cruise. I remember, therefore, that as a young author I was in the 1980s, in the EXPRESS economics, from our first reports it was for the so-called 'cabotage', that is, the inability of a cruise ship to catch in a Greek port and leave tourists, only if this cruise ship started from a Greek port and ended in a Greek port. And Malta had arrived to have three-fold cruise tourism from Greece. A politician came after twenty-five years and corrected that. I'll tell you the politician's name, even though I know it's a red cloth for you: it was Adonis Georgiadis. When he took over to the Ministry of Shipping as deputy, calm down the cabotage within eight months. So I mean, there's no need for ideas here. We need to look at the horizon openly and high, because privatization is part of the global and pan-European economic process, and we have shown here that we have state control over businesses, these businesses are going to hell for hazelnuts, unfortunately. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the quality of the water must be monitored. There should be annual reports of water pollution prices in cooperation with research - obviously - sections of universities and mainly of Thessaloniki and Macedonia in general. I conclude by saying that we will be voting in favour of the draft law. I wish what we are talking about today is an express procedure to discuss and apply them - and that the opposition would not react whenever the debate on privatisation was held - in the same fast way as the Arab, which took us eighteen years to realize that the port must be privatised to develop. It took us eighteen years, got us political tension, got'rear'. In any case, however, let us hope that we will succeed in the end. But if it is to take us a 20-year period of corrective action or every positive move for the economy and the local entrepreneurship, then it is better to abandon the sport. Ladies and gentlemen, we are positive about the privatisation of the port, under the terms and conditions that I have told you, and about the environmental and economic development and commercial activity of the city. The rest we'll see in practice in Thessaloniki. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much. At the end of the speeches made by the special speakers, we shall proceed with the speakers at the outset.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, I would like to speak. I will now speak and after the colleagues' speeches have been completed, Mr Santorinios will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u214	You have the floor for twelve minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u215	And less, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u216	You respect Parliament's Rules of Procedure, you cannot violate him!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u217	Ladies and gentlemen, hypocrisy and enthusiasm really are not good counsellors at all. As in Thessaloniki, people live with the logic of the goldfish! As if there were no policies and governments in the past few years! It's like they don't know, even though that's where very important personalities come from, that this town was living its martyr. Ladies and gentlemen, when you come to the House and speak with so much love and passion for Thessaloniki, you must remember that the Egnatia road has worked for fifteen to seventeen years. I ask you: Is there a connection at the moment to the port of Thessaloniki with Egnatia? No one's gonna apologize? How can you say that? I have heard the honourable Member, Mr Kalafatis, who is also from Thessaloniki. So the world in Thessaloniki doesn't understand what's happened? She doesn't know what happened to the subway? She doesn't know what happened with so many other projects that concern her, the transport in general? And they come here and they say about the magical world of privatization. No, gentlemen, it's not magical at all. And we have our reservations, but from there on we are adapting to a reality. But in this respect, we have proved to be more capable. This is illustrated by the results at the port of Piraeus compared to the results of this convention. This contract did not raise the world of Thessaloniki. It came in a spirit of understanding with the institutions of Thessaloniki, which is why there are no reactions. That's no accident. It is the result of the convention, ladies and gentlemen. He is also asking the honourable Member how the percentage will be shared. Is that what this is about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u218	And this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u219	Is that what this is about? How will 3.5% share? Or is the point that it was predicted to be 2% in the previous contract and would go to the public and now is 3.5% going to the two municipalities? Did a municipality come to you and protest why we left him out of the deal? I happen to know both mayors very well. So make a contact and see what is going on to get better information. There will be a conciliation and a fair solution will be found. If we go with the population criterion, someone can be wronged. We need to find a fairer way. That's my idea. So we went to that process. You're saying we've been late for two years. Are we late? Why do you always have this intent to denounce the government? It means you're not watching things. Investors are responsible for the delay, not us. It's not like that. Always find a chance to say. It's not like that at all. We have secured an investment by safeguarding the interests of the public and the city. You're talking about a fake investment. I don't know what purposes that investment by Mr. Laurentiades and this company was, because I see that you're avoiding names. It was a fiasco. That's the truth. What are you saying now and you're sharing that investment? Let's do it. You were government. It wasn't because he wasn't hitting anywhere. Nor was it appropriate to do so. It may have served businessmen rather than the city. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We have therefore proceeded to a dialogue and, as I said, we have ensured, 232 million, which will go to the HIADE. There was a word - to get in touch. In other words, we need somewhere between us in a spirit of logic to come to an understanding. You tell the Greek people that the superstition sells the country. Finally, if we know how to read, we can protect ourselves. The superstition doesn't sell. Read good, 'cause you're going to be exposed again. The superstition is making use of up to ninety years. Could be thirty, maybe fifty. Up to ninety-nine years. "until", not ninety-nine years you're saying. What's the HICP doing? He sells, sells. And where does the resource come from? S.H.I.E.L.D.'s all going to debt. The surplus is 50% in debt and 50% in investment. The best thing would be if the country had not had to have either one or the other. But the country has come to bankruptcy. Let's not go back and start talking about who's to blame. It's done. The question is how to get out of the country now. Yesterday one of the houses, which watch the Greek economy, upgraded the Greek economy and Greece by two points. It's very important. You know, no matter how many people cultivate illusions that you can take the government, the government, know it, and I tell you, it will be won or lost on the basis of the economy. Since the economy goes like this, next time the Greek people will trust Alexis Tsipras for many and various reasons. The Thessalonians at the end of this four-year period, ladies and gentlemen, will understand the qualitative difference in the mockery they have experienced for decades and the difference of a government that has kept up with them. This is what is happening in Thessaloniki. So what did we say in this particular case? To ensure a great price and investment. How many investments? One hundred and eighty million. Where's 180 million going? The 160 million will go for the extension of the pier, so that the port can obtain capacity, capacity, efficiency in the container area and 20 million in the maintenance of the buildings. What else did we do in consultation with the city? The famous Problem 1. The Prime Minister pledged two and a half years ago that this place would go to the city. Despite the pressures that may have been exerted by investors during the negotiation or the tender procedure, we, ladies and gentlemen, insisted and obtained the result we had to take. This pier has very important neoclassical buildings, which will be provided to the institutions of the city, the university, the Thessaloniki Festival, the cinema, in various activities that will be developed there. The areas, under the responsibility of the new organisation, will be exploited by the citizens, will be accessible to citizens, the city and the municipalities. This is something very important and very useful to the city, because it gives her access. That's what the people see and assess. He sees what we did not in this port only, but in Alexandroupolis. There was a 30-year-old request. Ask Mr. Lambakis to tell you where he said it in public. It doesn't belong to SYRIZA. We have given him 50 acres and even under very difficult conditions, but we have done so to give him this space for the development of the region, for entertainment and cultural activities. The same was happening in Kavala. They're listening from there, too. What have you done for so many years in Kavala? Weren't those spaces there? Now they're in SYRIZA? There are more than twenty acres and the city's access to the sea. Kavala was excluded from her sea. The same was the case in Igoumenitsa, with two hundred acres, as in the harbor in Patras with two hundred fifty acres. The same was the case in Piraeus, Elefsina, Aspropyrgos, the Megaras. We are constantly promoting what we do not need to take advantage of the terrestrial zone of each port is attributed to the towns of the region. That is the policy we are pursuing. Did you have the first contract with 'COSCO' in Piraeus for 3.5% of the municipalities? How do you remember the municipalities so easily? These were our achievements, because we also prove ourselves more effective in the management of these issues. What can we do? That's the reality. If you want to overthrow it, tell the Greek people it's not like that. I tell you specific things, such as that with the municipalities. In both Thessaloniki and Athens and Piraeus, we have a significant percentage that will strengthen the municipalities. And that's why? For decades the cities have suffered pollution, noise pollution, the problems of ports. Because the ports don't just have a positive sign. They also have problems, which is where the cities are active. But the cities had no pleasure in this story. So you see, we now have something quite different. We don't have to argue. There's a good try. I honestly did not hear about the contract or the content of the contract some things that gave me thought. Also, as far as the stock exchange value is concerned, I would like to say that the city's stock exchange value reached 34 euros from 20 euros, which was the nominal value. It is therefore a positive one, as is the guarantee letters of 10 and 20 million, which ensure the uninterrupted promotion of investment. There were some concerns about the DAL and RAL. Ladies and gentlemen, another thing is an independent principle and another is the transfer of the public authority of a port privatised to a body, to a department of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. It's another thing. Don't mess it up. If you have objections, if you think that what has been introduced is not right, say it to the Greek people tomorrow, if you ever come to power. I believe that this is an instant opposition krone and has no content and arguments. I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that you will understand that with something you must replace this. You cannot leave the independent authority to supervise the port. In other words, the public is taking away such competence. It's wrong. Our mind didn't give birth to it. It is not the result of our own ingenuity, but it is the case in all the ports of Europe. Go and ask, on the basis of this, if the people ever bring you to power, then do what God will illuminate you, as the people say. Mr President, I shall also put forward a written interpretative statement in the Minutes in order to give my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u220	You must testify to her, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u221	I put it to you, Mr President, for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u222	I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we are completing a case that is arousing Thessaloniki. This is a hub for central Macedonia, northern Greece, the Balkans, the central Europe. It is a port that, after resolving the issue of its connection with the Egnatia road, will enable it to communicate with the eastern side of Greece, that is to say, reach Alexandroupolis, Istanbul and all these regions or the western side, in order to reach the Adriatic and there to go across. The upgrading of the railway line - so that I do not come back, saying all these years about the railway line which Thessaloniki has had, is a shame for all of us and just say it, otherwise we say what we want - will enable the port to connect. It will open the lungs of the port to enable it to connect with the Balkans and central Europe. I believe that with this investment in Thessaloniki, which is, to mention, a European investment, it also has its importance - but also because of the competition of the port with other ports in the wider Balkans and the interest that will arise - there will be much more acceleration in its development. From there on, we are not prophets. Life will confirm or deny these. However, on the basis of data, which we often make assessments and approaches, I am sure that this port will really be able to contribute to the development of the entire wider region of our country and give another quality to its developmental features. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u223	Thank you very much to the Minister. Let us now move on to the speakers. My colleague has the floor for five minutes from SYRIZA, Ilias Cameroon. I would like to inform you that we have seven other speakers. Four of the parliamentary representatives have abstained and Mr Xydakis, Mr Kefaliannis, Mr Loverdos and Mr Sahinides have left to tell us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, it makes sense today that we have a long absence from our colleagues after the night we have all had. But even though I am at night, I listened to Mr. Placiotakis and Mr. Kalafatis and woke up because I heard that I suddenly became a neoliberal. We know what this philosophy is about 'their', 'welcome to liberalism', etc. But, before I answer that, I would like Mr. Placiotakis to answer if they still feel neoliberal after the turn, which their party has made on the extreme right. Here yesterday we and the Greek people were misled because, in listening to the speeches of their officers, we did not know who was the Chief. President, we know who he is. Chief, we didn't know who he is and where the New Democracy is going. But I want to stay, in my time, in this matter of our accession, is supposed to be neoliberalism. And that's good to some extent, because so far we've been told we're incapable. We are now implementing their programme. We know where they're going. They want to convince the Greek people that there is no other way and that the only way is their own policy and the policy that the partners imposed on us in August 2015, which is the same ideology as the New Democracy. Let's take a look at this. It is neoliberal on the one hand - to see if it is the same - to privatise social goods and it is left to protect social goods and to try to get all citizens the same access to them. Social good, for example, is health. We, in these difficulties, never adopted this programme. We were honest, so we went to elections in September and told the Greek people that, yes, we accepted the compromise, to get out of this programme and to put in place what we want at some point here. It is neoliberal on the one hand that the health is privatised and that the helpless, those who have no money, and it is left, Mr Placiotakis, what we do in these budgetary difficulties, that we give access to two and a half million uninsured people, that we strengthen health, that we strengthen the budget to health, when you flew to the street, you close hospitals, you close health centres, of course, in favour of private initiative. Social good is water. Social good is electricity. Yeah, we're against these privatizations, at least you're full of them. Therefore, while the contracts of yours provided for PPC's concession to such an extent that it does not control the public, we managed, within these difficulties, to change the program and the contract, not to go with your program with PPC "little" and despite all the compromises we made, to continue PPC's control of energy. It is neoliberal, of course, your view of the privatisations of everything. In fact, you want to say that we are completely negative because we are against privatization. I repeat: not generally against. Against these privatizations. Are you also telling us that we are against investments - what investments, what have you done? Although we were forced, I repeat, to accept supposed investments, such as the agreement - to come to the point that we are concerned with, for that is why we are now talking about investment and concessions - for the port of Piraeus. What can we say? It was, of course, neoliberal your opinion, you had made a deal that you granted everything, there was nothing left. With a topography that even included streets, you granted it. You didn't make sure to see if PPA owned any other property, if it had any buildings. We, and these, have protected and separated the areas for the shipyards, we have also made sure that there are zones for the citizens to enter the sea. And much more, we have ensured workers, not only by offering them the opportunity to transfer to the public, those who wanted, but also to their working relationships. As a result, they had a collective agreement that was very good, compared to the ones in force. Mr Plakkatakis, yes, it was a result - because you told the committee - of the consultation of workers with the employer. However, if it was your contract, the one you had done, the workers could not do that either. It is neoliberal the "investment", and we called it a sale and we call it what you were going to do in Greek. And it is left-wing tactics within these procedures that we look to protect as much as possible the public interest and, in particular, the interests of the people and residents of the region, who, by our own intervention, have access to the beach while you have excluded it. Our own intervention will have access to the Greek park, which you excluded. Our own intervention reduces building. Our own intervention is increasing the green. By our own intervention we will first be granted to the inhabitants and then the investment will go ahead. Since time is running out, I would like to refer to the convention we are discussing today. You still say your own work, etc. The Minister referred to a number of points. For example, 3.5% attributed to the municipalities you know very well that it was 2% with you. You know very well, too, that workers were not guaranteed. And as such a debate has been held in committee, we can assure you that, with decisions that will be taken, workers are guaranteed. And I shall end - Mr President, allow me - on the issue of the IAL, the Public Port Authority, which you have accused of. Here's another element that proves how much you've even shifted from neoliberalism. Because all ports operate in the European Union. And neoliberals in the European Union are protecting their ports and public port authorities. Because they take care of what they sign with investors, which are agreed to be implemented. And not what you want here, to grant them without control, without conditions, without anything. This is Left. And you're the neoliberals. These are our differences. And as much as you are trying to convince the Greek people that we are the same, every day you prove that this is not the case. And much more in August, when we can develop our own actions and proposals, when this supervision relaxes here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u225	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Ioannis Sahinidis, followed by Mr.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. The present ratification of the Agreement between the Greek State and the Consortium of German, French and known domestic economic and business interests constitutes an economic and political challenge. It is the sale of the port of Thessaloniki for over thirty years. An important area of land and infrastructure is granted to private interests for thirty-three years. From now on and as the financial data show, the State revenues from the consideration of the contract are set at 2% per annum on the sale of the consortium. The positions of the rulers on a positive agreement and development in the completion of the concession agreement of the port of Thessaloniki do not correspond in reality, at least as we know it. For us today's ratification is only the completion of the concession of the port after the start of the relevant procedures in June 2001, when the first Convention on the Government of Simitis had been signed. He was then involved in the process and the Government of Karamanlis with Law No 3654/2008. And today the left government of Tsipras - Kammenos concludes this process. This as a coherent retrogression of the concession of the port to foreign interests. We shall now proceed to the articles: the Twelve as a whole, which make up the ratification of the convention. It is found that the same legislative approach as Law 4404/2016 was followed, which ratified the Piraeus port contract. On Articles 1 and 2, which are the introductory articles in the ratification: of course we are voting against them. We are opposed to the current exploitation option of Thessaloniki and especially for such a broad period of time. We would remind you that the contract has been initialled by 2051. The strategic importance of his position is well known. It connects three continents on a maritime and road network, which strengthens our position that the port of Thessaloniki should have been managed by Greek State. Cartelling, as the kind of economic validation of multiple economic interests in Greek property, is a form of assignment of national sovereignty. We ought to say it, however graphic it sounds to you lovers of modern neoliberalism. In fact, one million five hundred and fifty thousand square metres are now allocated to the exclusive exploitation of a three and a half-kilometre. To this extent, the state will only have the possibility of supervising, and the relevant Minister for Maritime Affairs will be responsible. As you can see, we disagree with the concession - sale, and we believe that, because of commercial and investment interest, other ministries should be appointed with supervisory tasks in the Greek state's assets being transferred. (a) in Article 2(3), the words ‘preservation of sovereignty and territorial cohesion’ shall be inserted; The term 'integrity' is the most editor we propose to change. In other words, Article 2 sets out the basic principles governing the contract and gives rise to too many interpretations. With regard to Article 3 and the ‘Serbia Port Zone’, this delimits the ‘Serbia Port Zone’ in accordance with the plans annexed to the Convention and contains the main provisions governing the legal status of the port. Paragraph 7 of the article introduces the additional concession of five thousand square metres and the rights of the Real Estate until 2051 are suspended until today. The legislative wording referred to in paragraph 6 shall concern whether it is introduced under the terms of the cover-up of future political responsibilities and economic deficits during the transition to the new regime which will apply if and when the contract expires. Otherwise, the consortium will have full ownership, smoothness and use of the port. Let's go to Article 4. Here the legal regime, which will apply with the ratification of the Convention on the Sea Port Zone, is clear. The consortium will operate it for the same purpose, as is provided for by the content of the contract, i.e. operate the shipyards, anchorages, infrastructures, the seabeds and the sea beds. In essence, the self-evident fact is that the Greek State is typically sovereign, since the property is characterised as a public act of common use. It is paradoxical that Greece assumes sole responsibility for the shipwrecks mapped in the port area until 2016. It is of particular importance for many reasons, but mainly for reasons of national importance, that Greece retain the exclusive right and responsibility to take over the procedures relating to shipwrecks. Article 5. This article abolishes previous provisions relating to the Port Authority of Thessaloniki. The possibility, which now has the private interest in the legislative procedure, is indicated. The operating regulations of the EGF are being abolished and so it opens the way for young people - at the will of the competent bodies - to be introduced by the contracting consortium, uncertain about the working regime and the future of a large proportion of workers. It is necessary to ensure jobs and to make new recruitments to confirm the investment recovery that you are using as the main argument. Article 6. This article lists a number of cases where the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy is empowered to adopt regulations on matters relating to his or her competence. This is a formal regulation which only promotes the institution of state intervention in the field of administration. In Article 7, after an introduction is made of the right to cross citizens and users of the port, since this is a public-interest infrastructure, we have subsequently introduced authorisation to the counterparty to choose the tender procedures for the award of contracts in the context of the management and use of the port, I am completely absent from the State authority, despite the fact that there will also be concessions to companies with unknown interests, in a key for the infrastructure economy. Article 8 provides that the OLF is the sole body responsible for collecting port fees, as set out in Article 4(l)(i) of the contract attached, to collect all revenues from the exploitation of the right, including port fees. The newly established "LITS S.A." will have the privilege of acting as a state in a state. In addition, we disagree with the possibility that it is allowed to issue claims by third parties to the Greek State when it comes to amounts or other claims which may arise from the imposition of fees. Article 9: Here we have also mentioned the issue of awarding contracts in the previous article, and of course we will also vote against this. Article 10: A further challenge to the contract is contained in this Article. The validity of Article 9 on the freedom to conclude contracts with other legal or natural persons is confirmed. The full hypocritical and formal application of paragraph 2 shall then be determined. Here the legislator tells us that the "LAT SA" has the right to submit the relevant studies relating to the implementation of projects to the relevant technical services directorate in the region, to obtain approval and to proceed with the procedure, an approval which, as the article itself says, "this approval is presumed to have been granted within 90 days of the date of submission of the final study, together with a full documentation file. For the purposes of this paragraph, therefore, a final study, submitted to the Technical Services Directorate of the Region of Central Macedonia, shall be presumed to be accompanied by a complete documentation file, if it is submitted together with a signed declaration by the independent engineer as defined in the concession agreement, which confirms that the study has been checked by the independent engineer and meets the specifications of Article 7(6) and Article 7(7) of the concession agreement and the accompanying file is complete. Upon request by the ‘Organisation of the Port of Thessaloniki S.A.’ and within five days of the request, the Technical Services Directorate of the Region of Central Macedonia shall issue a written accreditation document for the duration of the ninety-day period mentioned above, which shall also be assigned a certificate granting approval in respect of the study submitted to that effect. Here, in short, the counterparty company may obtain the requested approval without having effective control of the file to be presented to the service. This is ridiculous and you must withdraw it, Minister. You consider immunity and bureaucratic irrationality. It is downgrading here, Minister, the role of the regional technical service. How do you ensure that there will be no financial irregularities and mistreats? Article 11: Tax exemptions could not, of course, be omitted. It is not enough to sell a "chilet" of public property, but you come and suggest the tax exemption of "LETH S.A." Indeed, the tax exemption from fees and taxes on real estate held by ‘OLTH S.A.’ is provided for. Have you calculated the amount of the total tax for the next thirty three years of the duration of the contract? And why should it be taxed, when in other sectors of economic life taxes come blurredly? Article 12: Here, Minister, you need to see what you are doing with work. We conclude that you are requesting an extension of the regime, since you do not want to open up any more social fronts. What law will apply to workers who have registered a pension? As far as internal organisation and operation regulations are concerned, as well as the general staff regulation, things are uncertain. In view of the fact that the power to adopt them by the board of directors of "OLTH SA" is laid down in this Article, there is also privatization at work by the coexistence of SYRIZA - ANEL, a sale of property, a sale of sovereignty and a dubious financial result. That is the spirit of this sanction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u227	Thank you very much Mr. Shahinides. Mr. SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. I think that time should be seven minutes, because the Rules of Procedure say that speakers speak in bills for seven minutes. In any case, I will do my best to limit myself. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, on the occasion of the debate on the bill for the Port Authority of Thessaloniki, we have heard some incredible things sometimes and with a phrase used by Mr Placiotakis, 'the last remnants of communism', he said, which is turning us back many years. Unfortunately, it seems that the extreme right rhetoric and displacement of the liberal New Democracy party has adopted not only neoliberalism from an economic and philosophical point of view, but has adopted extreme right-wing, nationalistic views of civil wars, which I think we have all left behind as a country and that we have learned the lessons of a traumatic period. In any case, I will go to the point and say all about what you are accusing us of, 'Objective transformations'. First of all, I know that in modern-day globalised capitalism I know private companies, which work perfectly, I know another such public companies that operate perfectly, and I know so many other private companies, which operate in too much gasoline and which do not suit the quality and functioning of a healthy business activity. Therefore, the issue of privatisation - state-running is an issue that, in the context of modern capitalism, is not a mere dilemma. We have a public that has been built up for many years in our country as a public system of clienteles, commercial relations and private services of great interest. Such a public, of course, would not be able to take a healthy turn and operate the big infrastructure in the country, whether these are ports or airports. We were not talking about such a public property and such state property. We are talking about a state, public property, which manages it by governments and agencies which, first of all, can serve the public interest rather than private, self-interest. So we made our compromise in the summer of 2015, a compromise that had both painful measures and we know it. After three years, however, the valuation is positive. The programme is coming out, the economy is recovering, unemployment is falling, the next day, in a socially fair and ecologically sustainable way, progressing, while a number of measures for the construction of the social state have gone ahead. And, of course, we are firmly hitting the joints of corruption and of complexity to finally move the country forward, without the distortions, the pathogenesies and the folding dependencies that have led us to bankruptcy. We have never been detached from our positions on the privatisation of large infrastructures. We still regard as an optimal solution to the ownership of ports in public and local government and, of course, a public one, as a different one. We moved by adopting the European port system. You, gentlemen of the New Democracy, say that you have moved to concessions, where have you moved from? Did you move from the privatization-sales, and now you're talking about concessions? That's the question. But to talk about the issue of the Public Port Authority. The public authorities of ports, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, exist in all European and not just ports. You will know very well the concept of port autorita del porto, to say it also in Italian, which exercises public control and public supervision, even in the ports that are under concession. I would like to say that under the founding law of the Public Port Authority, pursuant to Article 123 of Law 4389, the Public Port Authority is a self-sufficient service of the Ministry of Shipping and its objectives and responsibilities allow contributions to local and regional economic and social well-being, environmental protection within ports, the upgrading of services provided within ports, the cooperation of all the operators responsible for guaranteeing labour rights and the monitoring of collective labour agreements between workers in the port area. It shall notify the RAL without delay, to the Regulatory Authority of Ports, of any elements relating to the exercise of the contractual rights of the Greek State under a concession agreement in a port area. On the other hand, the Port Regulatory Authority is an independent authority, not the Ministry's agency, which aims to supervise and regulate the regulatory role between public and private bodies of the National Port System. So only the questioning of the existence and responsibilities of the DAS by you, by the New Democracy, demonstrates our essential difference between your privatisation and our concession with the guarantee of public interest, environmental conditions and labour relations. That is exactly what we did and we succeeded with the tough negotiation and ratification of the revised concessions in Piraeus and now in Thessaloniki. That is exactly what we will do and that is our big difference from the neoliberal concept that you serve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr. Armalene. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-two students and students and five educational attendants from the Batsios Municipal School and from Katerini Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Ilias Panagiotaros has the floor for five minutes from the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u230	Thank you very much, Mr President. Because there was much comment yesterday on a dispute between some of Mr. Samaras' friends and some of the SYRIZA officials, because things have been heard about Grammos and Vitsi, to inform Mr. Samaras and New Democracy's friends that you have been deporting all this for many years and you are dragging behind every left, in memorial service, in ceremonies, in funerals and everything else. Since yesterday at this very long session of the House, everyone bitterly cried or cried at the 'NOVARTIS', let us come back to the grim reality. In the grim reality of national issues, where in recent days NOVARTIS overshadowed all the dreadful things that were happening to national issues either on the issue of the name of Skopje or on the forthcoming agreements with Albania, where there was an EEZ in the form of information - why all we learn from abroad and nothing we learn from the Greek authorities - we had another great retreat to either the issue of Cyprus, where Turkey literally interrupted the first attempt on plot 3 and the well of the Italian company left there today, leaving or leaving somewhere else, after a "broken" meeting, which had the members of the company with ministers of the pseudo-crats. And all this went to the duke, because the political system was hot, and the debate, which was really serious, overshadowed all this. Of course, now that we are going to see for how many days the issue of the name of Skopje and the nickname of the sell-out of our own state officials will still be in the House, a new scandal will come to the House, that of the illegal - and not just - lending the parties. Of course, this scandal has something to do with the two major parties in PASOK and New Democracy, which both owe five hundred million euros to banks - credit and fierce - what the Greek people have to repay through the memoranda, recapitalisations and all other situations, and we do not know whether one will succeed. And until this scandal comes, what the Prime Minister, the Minister of National Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and all those who are "negotiating" on national issues should know is that the so-called "International Law", which they constantly call, is the law of the mighty. And only with powerful Armed Forces will we be able to extract hydrocarbons, oil, gas and all others, whether in Cyprus or Greece. At least ten warships from the Navy should be located in the Italian mall, underwater, which, at a certain point in time, is overarming in relation to the Turks, and we should show them that we are not playing because that is the only way one understands. Remember three incidents to understand how serious states work. One is in the late 1970s, early 1980s. When the Turks started making violations in Greece, in the Greek airspace, they also did something toward Iran. Of course, Iran's reaction was different. As the Turkish planes broke the Iranian airspace, the Iranians approached them, fled the planes, intercepted one, forced it to land at an airport in Iran, took the pilot, sent him back to Turkey, and Turkey's plane painted it with Iran's colors, put Iran's ethno and flew so far. This is a F4 Fhantom. Since then, of course, the Turks have not done any more breaches of Iran's airspace. A second incident much more recent - about a year and a half ago - occurred when a ship of United States Navy Special Forces into the Straits of Ormuz entered Iran's territorial waters. The Iranians arrested the entire ship. They were there the seal's and various other Americans, the marines and others, tied up hand grasped, weeped and didn't know what was going to dawn them. Eventually, they came back, apologized to America, and everything was fine. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President. I'll be done in a minute. And I come to one last example of how a nation defends its homeland and its rights. It is what is happening at the moment in Afrin, where the Kurds - not an organized army - on the northern border of Syria, on the border with Turkey, have been playing the Turks for more than a month. We are constantly watching videos where the tanks, armoured vehicles and the other equipment of the Turkish armed forces are exploded - and they are very nice to see - and they show how such situations should be dealt with. The port of Thessaloniki should be one of Greece's most powerful foreign policy arms in relation to Skopje, because everyone knows that the vast majority of the trade in Skopje takes place through the port of Thessaloniki, as well as Serbia, and there are special agreements. It would be a powerful weapon for Greece, which we did not use at all since 1990. All tariffs for goods arriving at the port of Thessaloniki and going to Skopje, Skopje reports as Macedonia. If we were to tell them "no, take the container back to China or elsewhere and come back" or "correct the invoices and the preambles", see how the problem would have been solved very nicely since the early 1990s. We are sure that with the sale - because this is what this is about - the port of Thessaloniki, things will become much easier for the Skopje and anyone else will want to do what they are doing. Either way, all these issues and a lot of others which have to do with issues of national policy, the defence of the sanctuaries and loyals of our country are done and carried out only by national governments and not by governments - operets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much Mr. Panayotar. The next speaker is from SYRIZA, Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the concession contract for the Port Authority of Thessaloniki is an important act in the puzzle of already agreed deprivations in the programme of the agreement with the institutions. It is a concession that was launched by the previous government, where a framework was created quite binding on us. In other words, in addition to the commitments to grant this public infrastructure, that is, the special framework of agreement had also been made. We have therefore tried to achieve positive developments. There is a criticism of our position against privatisation, as proposed in 2008. That is why we have to point out: at the time it was decided to give part of the port - in particular the fillet of the port - and all the other parts, which were not very profitable and were problematic, were left in the public. It was an option that created more problems than it was trying to solve, i.e. organising the port in an anti-development and unequivocal way against any sense of operational integration in the city. The criticism of whether we ultimately believe in privatisation or not, which in turn creates the ambiguity responsible for the delays, is unstable, because it is an approach that seeks to conceal the real problem, which is no other than the previous systematic depreciation process of the port between 2009 and 2014. It is a fact that is reflected in the period itself. And I mention only one particular, that in the three years 2012-2015 we had thirty-two thousand containers and in 2015-2017 we had fifty thousand containers. Our effort, that is, to restructure several of the parts of the agreed agreement. On this basis, Article 6(7) is very interesting, where Questions 1 and 2, in consultation with the Municipality of Thessaloniki, will always be used to develop cultural activities in this area. The Thessaloniki Festival has reason throughout the process. Of course, let us not forget that the port is an area that connects the land and the sea and culture is a functional part of the port. It is a big case for the city that the use of the Problem 1 and as far as these areas are concerned and as far as public buildings are concerned. The previous procedure also provided for 2% commission to the state, while today it has gone to the institutions of Thessaloniki, which we think is particularly important, and that is acceptable to the local community. The process yielded only one interested, only one contender for the OLF. However, we have achieved two important things. The first is that the price was higher than expected, and the second is that the public interest was ensured in a satisfactory manner throughout the range of our public space and public wealth interests. In economic terms, I think the figures speak for themselves, as long as I say that the stock exchange value was EUR 2 and reached 34 euros after the sale. The direct investment commitment of the consortium over the next five years amounts to a minimum of EUR 180 million and includes upgrading the existing equipment, developing activities for the cruise and the obligation to create a archive, but also a museum of the history of this very important port of the country. The port Regulatory Authority, which will have supervisory power in the port, has also been set up and is an innovation that was not in the past and is relevant to this recommendation. The proposed consortium confirmed the interest of important investors of unknown prestige and enormous potential. It demonstrates both the geopolitical value and the commercial value of a very important port in the Balkan inland, opening up a new era of development and cultural challenges in northern Greece as a whole. It is important to focus on the fact that the great economic price is not the dominant one. The enormous potential for the development of Thessaloniki and by extension of northern Greece is what is needed. The development of the EGF is the key to the take-off of the local economy and the productive reconstruction of the region. The new organisation can and must be linked to the wider production activity, operate as a basis for commercial intermediation with the whole of the Balkans. The challenge of the new era of cooperation and development creation with a view to the well-being of the peoples of the Balkans is visible and deserves our efforts. In other words, we can look forward to many jobs, business opportunities, new opportunities for creation, in an environment of final progress and stability, leaving behind the gray past. The investment is a case for which Thessaloniki is thirsty. The city has comparative advantages to be exploited. With the concession, it opens an interesting debate on the city, on the supervision of public space, on the safeguarding of labour rights and the guarantee of the city's identity. It opens up a debate on how the management and operation of the port will help eliminate the internal exclusion of residents from their own city. It is a prospect of an open city in the future for a better future that it itself will hold in its own hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, fifty-five students and students and three trainers from the 6th High School of Larissa (first Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Varvitsiotis has the floor from New Democracy for six minutes with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a 10-year-old cycle is being closed today, a cycle of lost opportunities, a cycle of populism, a cycle that brought Thessaloniki behind developments. Why, when ten years ago Kostas Karamanlis' government proceeded to the competition for the use of the Thessaloniki container station, we were tragically alone. There was no one from SYRIZA who could support it, someone from PASOK who would support it. And then we were talking not about divesting, selling the majority package of shares, but about a concession contract only of EUR 400 million, which at the end of its 30-year term would have created a turnover of more than EUR 3 billion. We have lost 3 billion in GDP this decade. And because I was listening to the game of responsibility yesterday, who was to blame, what was to blame for not becoming one or the other, so who was to blame? Isn't it Giorgos Papandreou who was in the bars outside the port of Thessaloniki? Is it not the SYRIZA, Mr. Kourakis, Mrs. Ammanatidou, who went to the port and said no? They don't have the responsibilities of the ones who torpedoed that deal? Thessaloniki lost ten years and I hear today Thessalonians saying "Bravo, one step forward". It would have been ten years ago and we would not have faced either the underdevelopment or the abandonment that the city feels today. I heard that all previous governments were responsible. Mr. Saridis said so. All previous governments, with the exception of the Governments of the New Democracy. Because the Government of New Democracy and I personally am the one who has proceeded with this competition that you are today coming to ratify. Did you improve him? Just a little. Did you bring a better price? Oh, no. Why, today your contract for the whole port is 232 million with 180 million investments, but the investor takes all 90 million of the money he has in his fund, warm money he will finance from what he buys, what it is to pay the Greek State and the investments he needs to do over a period of seven years. This is the reality, and you have even lost two years, because this competition should have been completed since the summer of 2015. You have lost them, so you are responsible for the loss of national income here. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that a policy that has been pursued today is embraced. And I wish you had taken out the ideas, forgotten these jewels of the so-called Left and had realistically faced the problems of the country's underdevelopment. But where else did you go for the three years you've been ruling? Two things you did, P.A. and P.A., which you found ready for. Regarding the port of Lavrio, there has been a tabled proposal from private investors for the extension of the pier and the construction of a cruise station and you have done nothing! Nothing! With regard to the port of Alexandroupolis, there are proposals to become a transiting centre for agri-food products with private investments. Have you come up with a plan on how to proceed with all this? Can't you see your government's running out of time? In port policy, all you do is share plots in local municipalities - possibly also useful for the development of ports - to play saints. So you share things that don't belong in a terrible way. I shall now refer to Mr Kurubli - and to SYRIZA in general - to celebrate the new collective agreements made in the PPA. You celebrated because the workers are now getting fourteen wages. Of course, if he's privatized, he goes to fourteen. When we told you the benefits for workers from privatization, from the increase in turnover, from the growth of the company, from the increase in movement, you said "No. To remain public.’ How many times have you protested outside my office to keep PPA public for the workers then? Today you celebrate because they have a collective contract of employment by the private investor, better than the one that the public PPA could offer. That's the reality. However, your ideals, the incomplete struggles on this Left, which have caught us back so many years, are the ones that come today and are confronting the reality and the maturity that the government should finally have. I challenge the leadership of the Ministry of Shipping to tell us in the time it remains what it intends to do for the rest of the ports, what moves it will make, what investment it will bring, because three years now it has not brought one. I shall close, ladies and gentlemen, with an amendment tabled by the Ministry of Defence in order to obtain some work in the Greek Shipyards Scaramaga. I heard Mr. Tsipras who went to the Ministry of Shipping the day before yesterday and congratulated his leadership on his unprecedented, he says, investment programme. The Ministry of Shipping has at the disposal of EUR 142 million by the European Union and has not completed a competition for three years now. A competition has come out on the market of three ships. So Mr. Tsipras told us about the new ships of the port. I imagine you saw all the pictures of "GASDOS", the perfect state-of-the-art ship of the port, which was vaccinated the day before yesterday by the Turkish dormant. This process has been completed in the government of Samaras, and of course all European funds have been used to the full. It says, therefore, that the new port ships will be built in Greek shipyards, he said, "This is our commitment". One tender for the construction of three patrol vessels and the procedure for the submission of tenders does not include any Greek shipyard. No Greek shipyard has submitted a bid. None! How can you keep lying so much? How can you? Every time you breathe, you say a lie. Your Prime Minister is unbelievable. Didn't his Minister tell him he wasn't so exposed? One contest is out, three boats will order. Three offers have been submitted, no Greek shipyard! And he goes out and says Mr. Tsipras that the new armament program will be produced by Greek hands. Let's be a little serious. You have a great opportunity. Appreciate the money. Don't lose chances all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u236	I'm closing, Mr. President. As the opportunity of Thessaloniki has been lost, as the opportunity of its port has been lost, do not lose the opportunity to make use of the 140m euros available to you to shield the Aegean Sea at last and to understand the national importance of the Port Authority in defending the sea borders and the role it plays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u237	Thank you very much Mr Varvitsiotis. The next speaker is Mr Theodore Dritsa from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u238	Thank you very much, Mr President. There are, indeed, many ways to tell the truth, as well as there are many ways to distort the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u239	According to Breech, it's only five.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u240	Just five! I agree. I'm sticking to the current point of view! It would be an opportunity today, despite the fact that today's meeting is taking place in a very limited circle of participation after yesterday's marathon, exterminating meeting, to hold a debate on the country's productive reconstruction in the field and in the field of port industry, on the occasion of the sale of the shares of the Port Authority of Thessaloniki to private companies. And that would be useful, because this period is the period during which we are supposed to plan the new reality after leaving the memorandum. But we have no credible opposition. We don't have a trustworthy interlocutor in Civic Opposition. We don't have a serious interlocutor. There are other parties and I hope that they can - with differences and disagreements - come to this debate on more serious terms. The New Democracy insists on being a cartel party. It's not the only one. All over the world there are cartel parties that take over mediation between private interests and state administration. It's not bad to think that privatization is the best thing. It has a difference, however, if it comes to it as a cartel party or if it comes to the basis of a strategic planning of another type. That's not how it happened in Thessaloniki with STO. The procedure for annulment of the agreement to privatise Thessaloniki's TIF was precisely the product of competition of customer interests and a lack of serious planning and collapsed... on its consequences. In any case, good or bad for that reason collapsed. It has not been annulled by a political or social movement, which could perhaps make better prospects in this case. Also, we have a very good picture of the ship's orders. But I am not irresponsible. Mr Varvitatitis knows that I have handled the history of the four ships from the Croatian shipyards and that I did not want to make it a scandalous issue, but a serious issue of the interests of the Greek State and the strategic choices of the Port House. So he doesn't have to do such tricks. I would therefore say at this juncture that the port industry and transport in general are a process of strategic nature and an internationalised process, and port and combined transport, because sea transport and the port industry do not take place without land transport. Only with combined transport can ports be important. There is no 'white black','state or private'. The state is the People's Republic of China, but state capitalism. The Soviet Union itself, in the course of the decades, has evolved into state capitalism, in many of its activities. It's not the legal form. It is the social form and social nature of productive activity and who controls it and who benefits from it. There is, therefore, a European model. It is not the best, however, in any case, that it is in a sense to involve society, self-government, chambers, the state and the planning of the port industry. The port of Piraeus, however, and the port of Thessaloniki was not privatised on the basis of such a plan. We tried to fill the gaps and give as much assurance as possible that something would be saved from this whole story. And to a large extent we have managed to integrate it into a strategic plan, to guarantee public supervision, to guarantee employment rights, to guarantee environmental conditions, and to guarantee rights for coastal municipalities. This does not, however, alter the main objective of privatisation, not of any development planning, but of the commitment of the first, second and third, then a memorandum on debt repayment, to debt relief. This is not a production process. The debt, however, in a bankrupt village is a loop in the neck. In these circumstances, therefore, these conditions have been met. So it is now an opportunity to discuss exactly what social conditions and what combined design all these activities can be integrated, what has been established at the port of Piraeus and at the port of Thessaloniki, and what can be enshrined in the others. Why would you do that to have a port in Thessaloniki that rises against Kavala or Alexandroupolis or Volos? They must be competitive and not competitive, apart from how each port should be. This debate is very serious and it is incapable of a party like New Democracy to make it. He's not qualified. Even for what is being taken, for the sale of Piraeus Container Station, mercy, and even this was not included in any design by the cartel party. Then Karamanlis, as Prime Minister of Greece, went to China along with a strong group of Greek shipowners, concluded an agreement with the Chinese shipyards and the Chinese banks to support the shipyards of Greek vessels in the shipyards of China and gave the Chinese company "COSCO" to exploit and exploit the Piraeus Container Station. And when, in order for the country to develop, it needed seventeen kilometers of railway line from Iconio to Triasio and connecting to the main rail network, for twenty years, this line was not fixed! It was funded, designed, commissioned to contractors and four times a number of Prime Ministers - Karamanlis, Samaras, etc. - They were inaugurating. It wasn't made, though. Even now, in order for it to function, it is necessary to connect to the general strategic network, the railway, which is in progress. And I think this thing will soon be done. Let's leave her cheap. Dealer's not working. That is why the Public Port Authority is of enormous importance, because we do not have port autority social character, namely chambers, municipalities, other social organizations, trade unions, such as Italy, France, other countries, to have this balance. We must have a body that is in the public interest, but also respects the agreed services, supervises them, controls them and can actually make them as productive as possible in the social interest. And finally, one phrase, two words. Added value. Indeed, the VET - the container station - with the exploitation of 'COSCO' took off. But no crane bridge was built in Greece. Will you tell me, could you? Parts of it could. Not a single screw? The tanks coming. No participation of the Greek production base. For that, it makes no sense for me to blame New Democracy and New Democracy for me or SYRIZA. This is the elementary, minimal basis for any debate to begin. Because, if privatisation has two arguments, it is only investment and the attraction of goods through the internationalised and competitive freight transport cycle. Investments can also be secured by the public sector, as guaranteed by the PPA's binding investments in the first five years and by European programmes and public resources. The most difficult thing is for every port not to be marginalised and to remain part of international transport competition. These are very serious issues. But the New Democracy only has to tell us which receptions it will go to show that it is in favour of private individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. Dritsa. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be interrupting for five minutes with my personal responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u242	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. It is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "Electronics VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty students and students and two teachers from the High School of Denmark "Ronshoved Hojskole". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I deal with the topical and legislative issues, I will be allowed to make a few comments on some of the issues I have just heard. I am pleased that we are having an ideological debate in this Chamber. I have heard a SYRIZA's colleague earlier - I will not personally refer to a personal controversy - to speak of neoliberalism. I knew that at least the old leftists knew and read and were very well informed and could distinguish the difference between neoliberalism, that is, the extreme centre, and the liberalism that the New Democracy defends. At the same time, however, neoliberal and far-right, as you call us, we cannot be. Decide. I understand, of course, that you have suffered an ideological vertigo, because from where you were prisoners and you had a certain political thought, we suddenly see you implementing practices, which indeed often also flow towards neoliberalism. I shall say, however, to liberalism. I understand that perhaps this has caused you various internal issues. To close with these ideological considerations, I would remind you that Europe has moved forward because two currents, firstly the centre-right, namely Christian democracy, and secondly the central left, namely social democracy, have been able and put forward those policies so that the European Union - then the EEC and the Coal and Steel Union - can be today's structure, which, despite its problems and possibly some disadvantages, has been able to create the social state in Europe, when the so-called 'Serban Curtain' was on the other side, which collapsed in 1989 and we saw where the countries of the eastern bloc were found. I would also like to make the following remarks: I have heard a criticism from the Government and Government MPs of the New Democracy. Let me remind you that there is a warning difference, ladies and gentlemen. When you were in Anti-Population, not only did you criticise - and you rightly criticised this is the operation of the Anti-Population - but you voted against what was positive from the previous Samara - Venizelos government, even things you are calling for today, so that the crusaders of the clearance may appear. On the contrary, we have also demonstrated with our current attitude in the bill that what is positive is what is close to our ideology we are voting for. And this is a very basic difference, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Because you have voted against all positive or negative. We are making a specific distinction, we are making the criticism where we should, targeted criticism, but we still have the political courage and we are voting in favour of bills brought by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is obvious to everyone that the government, as I have said, conquered power in 2015, so with a stewardship it intends and leaves it. And if the damage he did in 2015 in the country was primarily in the economy, a damage, of course, very important, but perhaps with a great deal of trouble being subsidized in the coming years, unfortunately, the damage he does in her last turn before the exit is infinitely more important. I'm opening up here another parentheses. The Minister, Mr. Kourublis, celebrated earlier on the upgrading of the house "MODY'S" and the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, did so yesterday. I would remind you that the recent upgrading of the MODY'S, like the most recent FITCH, actually brings the country into a credit line and a situation that was in December 2014. So the government celebrates the fact that today by upgrading the country from these houses we are reaching a situation that we were in December 2014. Is he celebrating for what? You celebrate for three lost years in the economy. We'll see about this along the way. And unfortunately, in order to return to the damage which has been done yesterday and the whole of the previous period, it is a damage to the democratic institutions, it is a blow to the rule of law and, unfortunately, the political system and it is in a very difficult situation to reclassify itself. Those in this Chamber who swear to moderation and political culture, but also to respect for democratic standards, what must at least be left to them and must never forget, at least that has shocked me personally, is the image of the former Prime Minister, Mr Pikramenos yesterday, and the sound of his broken voice, which he was trying to defend an impeccable life, an impeccable course. I think, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, of the Coupling, this picture, regardless of how the course will go, will haunt you forever. The way in which the government manages both the political opponents and the 'NOVARTIS' case, you will allow me to say that it is a disgrace, which it will be difficult to get out of the whole political system. We are, unfortunately, living moments of zombies and political regression, which make even the polarized 1980s look like a playground in the face of what we are living in today. The construction that was unfolded yesterday in this Chamber could be summarised with the following press title: From the voices "you got it" and "the biggest scandal from a recommendation from the Greek state", which you complained a few days ago, we heard the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, saying "take your political responsibilities". In other words, the House decided to set up a pre-review committee to investigate political responsibilities, when we heard about politicians who gave them the last time, 'they took them', 'handed up to honey' and yesterday, while we were waiting to hear Mr. Tsipras pulling a rabbit out of the hat - why do you know about the litigation itself, you know very well and I think it was analysed yesterday, it has nothing substantial to offer -, all he said is 'take over your political responsibilities'? I would like to ask you: have you charged political people, had any consciences in order to ask the Prime Minister, from you, only the issue of political responsibility? As a lawyer, I heard yesterday - and to a certain extent I will not hide it, in fact - the completeness of the arguments by which the defendants showed the size of the indictment as well as the indictment. However, I did not hear any counter-project on the part of the Coupling or the Government on which the defendants denounced. I heard it was two things. The first is that the defence of the protected witnesses which Members of Parliament have tried to make, first and foremost, Mr Paradisepoulou, on the serious procedural objections you have raised, you have found - you will allow me to speak - a café-level argument that what the bride does not want to ferment forty days is sifting. And they even said that people who, if persecuted for terrorism, would scream only if, for example, the seal in the Sanctions Committee had not been pressed well. The second question I heard was a rhetorical question. Whether there is a NOVARTIS scandal or whether there is a construction. I think some people in this Chamber are doing what they don't understand. They do not understand that this construction is not only intended to smash the dignity of serious policies. I firmly believe that it was done to cancel any serious debate at some point on the real corruption that exists in the drug field. I hope at some point that the time will come to question at least the Collapsing, the Collapsing Members - when I believe that this bubble will have broken - who really needs to speak and when we need to talk about the substance of this scandal. I am sincerely sorry that some in here do not have the pretexts of how they perceive the administration of justice and respect for the presumption of innocence. In spite of some's efforts to keep the pretexts, the Minister of Justice Mr. Kontonis himself said yesterday 'I hope that most of the people involved will prove their innocence', i.e. by reversed the presumption of innocence. I should also like to remind you of Mr Kotzia' s statement, who yesterday will allow me to speak - a lying person - of course tried to revise it, but he said that he never said that phrase, there is of course the video of the interview - to repeat the same thing. In other words, they should themselves be inclined to prove their innocence. The bill now. Ladies and gentlemen, these days ten years ago, in January 2008 SYRIZA MPs were gathered out of the main entrance of the port of Thessaloniki and some, as our rapporteur said very well, had literally climbed the bars. I do not know, of course, which of today's colleagues remember, but I think we should all remember now. In 2008, the then government of the New Democracy had approved the conditions for an international tendering procedure to proceed with the 30-year concession to a private of the famous ‘sixth pier’, where a container station is currently in operation. At the same time, the corresponding process for the container station in the port of Piraeus was in progress with similar reactions. Unlike Piraeus, of course, where the Chinese "COSCO" signed the concession agreement with the government at the time of the New Democracy, in the case of Thessaloniki private individuals never came to the port. Let me remind you, of course, that even in this tender, there was provision for the private operator taking over this station to invest at least EUR 300 million, for an important price for rent and, of course, for an extensive international experience. Indeed, then there was an investor, who even offered guaranteed revenues of EUR 420 million and investments of EUR 490 million in addition. Let me also remind you that that attempt, unlike the port of Piraeus, was ending in an abundance. And of course, SYRIZA's colleagues remember why. You remember, of course, who hung up on the multi-month movements of workers, who then kneeled down the companies of Thessaloniki and northern Greece in total, who either wanted to export their products or import raw materials and goods. You will also remember that the ships waited for loading between 10 days and a month on average, with the result that importers and exporters had to bear the costs of larvae. We will remember, of course, that many ships have changed their way to ports in other countries and companies have borne the cost of alternative transport and have lost the deadlines for commercial agreements. You will remember that the mobilisations in 2008 left very great wounds to the reputation of the port, as many of the customers were then troubled and never returned again. And if, ladies and gentlemen, you do not remember all this, because it has been ten years, but you will certainly remember the promises you made to the left and right election in 2015. Then you called "national and economic crime" the sale of the two ports and promised that you would not only cancel the procedures, but would also seek responsibilities for the great damage you cause to the two organizations with the policy of co-government of the memoranda and social catastrophe. And today you come and characterize the sale of 67% of the EGF as a great success. So let us see what this great success is. Contrary to 2018, companies were not invited to bid for the amount of investments they would make at the port or for the shipments they would carry, but for the money they would pay to obtain 67% of the shares in the HICP. For investments, is the amount envisaged below or not, Minister, in relation to the projections of the EGF business plan, that is, EUR 309 million planned for the scenario instrument and EUR 200 million for the low? In addition, is it or not the absolute minimum investment to be made in a port where the mechanical equipment is old and operates at marginal levels? If, however, the level of obligations and investments laid down in the contract is lower than expectations, what about the objectives it sets for handling the boxes? What is requested by the private investor is that by the ninth year it should reach the container handling at 370,000, that is, it is commonly allowed to maintain the port stop for a decade at the 2016 level. This is the very great success that the government is advertising. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not be fooled. Privatisation is a very painful story for our country, because the prospects could be different if in some magical way the present government was politically more serious. In the summer of 2015, after the proud negotiation, you undertook to proceed to privatisation of EUR 6,5 billion until August 2018 that ends this programme. Of the EUR 6.5 billion, it is planned to be implemented, it has been done - and this is even questioned - just EUR 2.8 billion. Of course, we all understand where the difference of EUR 3.7 billion will come from: from the great surpluses, overtaxation, from the drainage of the real economy. So it is a painful story to privatize and above all to the Greek people. For ideology, abstraction, ochrophism and inability have become taxes paid by Greek citizens for a large nipple in the neck of the economy. I shall conclude, Mr President, with the amendment of the Ministry of National Defence. There is no doubt in this Chamber that the four submarines need to be made available as soon as possible to the Hellenic Navy, especially when we know the challenges of this period and the provocativeness on the part of Turkey. But I want to say a few words about the shipyards. Some new data have been created since the IGC ruling, which may perhaps be the beginning that will solve many problems. The most important of this decision on the shipyard is that it remains open and can continue to operate without the bans on the construction of foreign ships and even warships. As a result, there is a very large growth potential for exploiting opportunities for the export of warships. Unfortunately, the Greek State chose on October 12, 2017 to submit a request to the Athens Monomele, requesting the appointment of a special manager in the shipyards, in order to distinguish between military and commercial parts and to sell the assets in the auction. I would like to ask the government directly: what is the plan if no investor is found? You know that placing a special administrator will lead to the closure of the company, the sale of its assets and obviously the loss of all jobs. And what will you gentlemen of the government do? Will you let the shipyards go bankrupt? Will you leave the workers on the street or will you pay on the basis of the ruling of the International Arbitration Court an amount of EUR 155 million or EUR 200 million plus interest? Unfortunately - and I am closing with this - there seems to be no coherent plan nor a definitive solution to the problem of these shipyards. All you do - and many of the wings of this House today - are that every six months to bring us an amendment, to throw money into a bucket that never ends. Sadly, just suffice to spend time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u244	Dear colleague, please complete. You've reached sixteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u245	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u246	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u247	We invite you to present a concrete, coherent plan and to tell us whether you will follow, on the basis of the ruling of the International Court of Appeal, a specific plan or whether you intend to continue the procedure, on the basis of the request you have made, which we very much fear - we are telling you now that you will not find yourself in advance or in order not to give the hot potato to the next - that we will find ourselves with closed shipyards, with unpaid workers and with outstanding compensation for this company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u248	Thank you very much. Parliamentary spokesman from the Democratic Independence, Mr Andreas Loverdos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u249	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister made a mention of the newmesis last night. He invoked the ancient tragedy. His report related to justice. I am sure he did not forget the other elements, the related parts of the ancient tragedy. I'm sure he didn't forget because I'm sure he doesn't know. I want for the completeness of the argument about justice to be referred to myself. That is where the debate begins. In this respect, on the part of today's majority, the hybrids were the propaganda, demagogues, lies, everything he said in the election and until the memorials were brought here. She's the naughty one. We do not notice that often, we go from the hybris to the nemesis. It's when you get arrogant and lose your sense of where you are and who you are. Power is causing this. It is the nemesis, of course, righteousness. But it is also the honor, namely the destruction. So we are between the third and fourth stages, the third and fourth part of the ancient tragedy. And we're at a point of no return. These don't come back to repeat them otherwise. These were launched and went toward the end. So you are on your way to the electoral disaster, and this course today wants you to be at a point where it has no return. Going to a matter of political topicality particularly important and last but not least before entering into the substance of the draft law, I would like to make a necessary point for Greek-Turkish and I do so for the second time. It's the country in a difficult time. I would not describe it otherwise, so as not to be involved in the burden of the problem, but the country is at a very difficult time. You sacrificed for internal policy purposes the Erdogan visit after his completely mistaken intervention on the stay of the visit with an interview. You have violated every sense of reason to treat him before the public, and you have been defeated. After this visit, which was not at all successful, as you presented it, in its innermost direction, and of course not only in its wake, but also because of other issues that go beyond the relationship between Greece and Turkey, they even go beyond the issues of the Cyprus issue, but they are wider problems, because of these wider problems, the country has come at a very difficult time. We have a Minister of National Defense, who has his behaviour causing problems. Its behaviour is particularly presumptuous, I do not want to describe it otherwise. We have the rest that I have said and we are just at a time when the opposition is having difficulty with you, because we have a political responsibility to our country, to our country, to our citizens. These are things that we could easily tell you, things that would facilitate our own relationship with the electorate, but which we avoid for national reasons. However, you have made mistakes these days from two sides. If - to say - right is in the middle, you have escaped from one side of the wrong and from the other. You have been silent at times that you should not have silenced and said things, which bind your next moves, to escape the criticism you are being made by the world, not by us. We stood responsible. All this, without the National Representation having nothing to do with it. We are listening, we read from the media, Greek and foreign: "The National Representation, the National Council for Foreign Policy." Otherwise - how? - Opposition doesn't have a picture. I believe that it is not just us of the Democratic Partnership, which we do not have a picture. I think that all of Parliament's parties are lacking in information and are spectators of wrong movements, which for reasons of responsibility you are not told first and foremost. Perhaps you should get a message from the attitude of responsible Response and use it as you can. This is the subject of the amendment you have brought us today from the Ministry of National Defence. You have almost three years to trouble this House with various inaccuracies for the submarines. And what you haven't said. Because I didn't know the person you're referring to, I transferred it to discussions that we have in the Democratic Incorporation and my colleagues smiled because the name I said as I heard it from the Minister of National Defense, who mentioned it as the permanent evil here and there and there. It is time we needed them and you tell us to extend the time with an amendment. Suspecting that means that for some years now, your years, you are inactive in matters. We do not want to say 'no'. But we do not want to agree with your political practice over the last three years and to legitimise it by voting for the amendment of the Ministry of National Defence. We shall be expressing ourselves with 'the present'. You have to understand that what the Minister of National Defence is saying at times has, because of his competence, an extension to matters that are too serious. I'm blocking the amendment too. I am going to go to the main theme in the EGF concession agreement. I have two texts in mind. The first text is Mr George Carras' suggestion, which I invoke. I invoke all the points of your speech, my dear colleague. I have two small topics, which arise from the Department of Scientific Studies of the Parliament. If you've exploited it, don't waste time. It makes two remarks. One comment concerns Article 4 and it is serological. You may have seen her. The other remark concerns Article 6 and it is not serological, but it is related to the powers conferred by the law and to the imperfections of the authorisations. If you think they contain comments that help you, the thoughts of the Scientific Research Directorate, look at them. We are now going to the political issue relating to the convention. I have heard not many, but two, three colleagues from the majority, two, actually. I didn't catch you. I just read...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u250	I'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u251	When I got here, you made an intervention. I thought that was your speech. I'll listen to you. Here we have the concession between the Greek State and the Piraeus Port Authority a year and a half ago, two years ago. And because I was a parliamentary representative on the subject, I have very early on what we were discussing. We were talking about the law of correspondence. Do you remember the suggestions made by the Greek public counterparty here by fax and email and the House was turned into an instrument for accepting the contractor's proposals? Do you remember the amendments that Mr Dritsa brought back then as the competent Minister? I remember it like now. I remember how many majority Members, who have a consistency with the past, felt a bit difficult. Because it was not pleasant for the environment to legislate on a contractor's suggestion and that is what it is. This is a past that characterises you as a government and the consequence of your speech in the same parliamentary term, not in the six-month Varoufakis-Tsipras, from September onwards 2015. These agonistic behaviours which are now defending the interests of the people and the nation in the government, do not tell us here today. My colleague from the Dodecaneses exaggerated himself, and Mr Dritsas exaggerated himself. That's enough! That's enough! There's no one who believes you about them. If you have guilt elsewhere, in your chaplain, in your doctor, not here. This is a political debate. But you're saying, you do. It's enough to invoke me that you're left. You're not. I also stressed last night that Members of Parliament were applauding both parties for the upgrading of the country's credit rating by international loan sharks to combine myself with what you have just said. You live a contradiction. You live a lasting contradiction, we won't solve it for you. There are experts who are experts. Let's get to the bottom of it. The essence of what he says? We had, under the state of the collapse of the country, signed memos. In our memorial to ports, there were conditions to make use of our ports. You have passed the terms of the sale in your memorandum. You have gone a point far beyond the previous ones who were evil, traitors, etc. Instead of the model, as they call it, of retreat, you have moved on to another level, you have been upgraded in terms of neoliberalism condemned to words. I enter the dialogue left - right, neoliberalism, etc., because it is your perseverance, which again has psychological causes. You should address someone and say: 'We are left'. No one cares about what you are, about what you are doing, but because you are in a mood with the labels, I tell you to leave them now they don't make you differentiate the political system on the basis of them. There are modern, very effective courses for the country's discrimination on the right that you could use them in part if you had little to do with reality, but you have nothing to do with it. You have a deep background, but as far as your political speech is concerned, you are keeping the pretexts, and I think that is causing problems. Look. We have the Port Authority of Piraeus. We've acquired an experience. What would I say? I was impressed in view of the formation of my speech today by a comparative given that I took from Cyprus and by the privatisation of the Limassol port. People there in the midst of a crisis and they made a concession contract to three individuals. I am not a Cypriot, I am not defending any concessions I do not know. The information I have is information that you and anyone could draw from the Internet. However, they have already done an account. Did he deceive? It didn't work out? And they find that this contract that they finally made paid more than the Cypriot State would guarantee when that port belonged to its ownership. And today I think it still belongs to its ownership, but I am not fully valid. I do not have the text of the contract to appreciate it, but I use the information for this reason, it has made a profit record from this story or not profit or loss and found the investment profitable. Have you done three years in government now, for some of the privatisations that have been made and is it now in your hands a report to present it to the National Cost Representation but also benefits, now benefits and benefits before privatization, so that it will be a model for your next moves? I hear you're thinking of privatising the Greek Petroleum. Anyone who takes the responsibility of coming here and talking about privatising Greek oil must know that there is the next day for him and for the government that will do so. Before I said that, however, I told you the opposition, but in some way, a creative argument. Do you know how the privatisations go? How have they gone? I do not want to give one, it is not considered that I am blaming her because I am not blaming her. It's happening these days, but now it's in your hands. Can you tell the national delegation today, you who did this policy here, how did history go with the Piraeus Port Authority? Did it go well so far? And on the basis of this very good final result, do you think about going like this in other cases? And because we're talking about Thessaloniki, let's go a little bit to the ports of northern Greece that will make the same moves. Have you thought about the overall design there? Are there any competition issues? No issues in the legal sense, competition issues in terms of turnover. How have you seen all this? It would be good for your talk to also include comparative data to determine whether what you are doing, do it consciously, that you are progressing well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u252	Thank you very much Mr. Loverdo. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Nikolaos Xydakis has the floor for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Chamber is returning to normal pace after yesterday's sitting. However, from yesterday to today there is a thread that goes on and thoughts and reasons. In the background, I see the thread of a care, an urgent thought to restore the productive fabric of the country that has been severely affected by the crisis and to restore an institutional normality, the faith of the citizens in institutions, faith in democracy, the faith in the National Representation as it is, on whatever terms it meets. And a small awareness that the old production structure model in the country, I would not say the heavy word that it has collapsed, but went bankrupt, and the attempts of this bankruptcy will be paid for by the next generations. We must be honest about this, at least in their fantasy and self-image that this society has. And here is our great debt to restore self-confidence, a corrected realistic self-image and self-awareness. And since we are constantly talking about ways of approaching, exploiting the country's productive resources, how we put our ports, major infrastructure, large national assets on a development track called either privatisation or concession. In order to understand what has happened to us since 2010, we need to understand that various tested methods and recipes of the past have led to many in the 2010 shipwreck. And deindustrialisation, the rapid deindustrialisation after the 1970s and the bad applications of the Common Agricultural Policy and the destruction of the resources of Europeans and the intact credit expansion since the 1990s and blind faith in over-credits and even the current lack of long-term strategy for a large resource that is tourism, which is still based on quantitative expansion and not on qualitative changes, the various qualitative changes and the bubble of the real estate which has been reaping along with the credit expansion over the past one and two decades. These attitudes remain, are encrypted within DNA and the political system, the political management and the people who are or represent the economic elites. And within this to see the great new landscape, that since the beginning of the 2000s, our country has been voluntarily integrated into a large monetary formation, has a reduced influence on its monetary policy, has reduced autonomy in formulating fiscal policy. These are strategic choices, we belong to a strategic alliance. At the same time, these twenty years in which we have been overdeveloped and then collapsed, we have other major changes. Our country is in demographic decline. It is not even discussed in a small committee of Parliament. It should be a central issue in the programming proclamations of all parties that aspire to govern. The whole world of work is changing. Robotics collapses rapidly, which is something we are discussing. To think about what new work we'll find to our citizens. The skills are changing. We still have to accommodate the one million unemployed caused by the crisis. The sensitivities of the population change. The crisis has transformed large groups of the Greek population. He ruined them financially and changed their consciousness. It changes their position in the social fabric. We also have the great geopolitical upheavals, which, on the occasion of the tectonic collapse of the Middle East, all post-war planning, the enslavements and the steepness of this crisis, has felt Greece: first, with the great refugee and immigration and second, with the unprecedented aggression of Turkey. But there are also risks within this great geopolitical reclassification, there are opportunities. Greece can claim a new road, a guarantor and a pillar on the roads of energy and their streets commercial. A pillar may have emerged in the southeastern Mediterranean. However, these are the tasks of the leaderships, to read the new geopolitical context and the new historical data, the exogenous, what comes to us and cannot be reversed, but we can hire and adapt the deep hearing, the empathy of the transformed Greek society, the young people, the middle class affected, the working class, which is groaning, these are our duties. In recent years, over the past one or two years, I have spoken twice about the need for a long commitment and understanding to the majors even in the form of a national security council. How can this be convened? Yesterday I heard shocked the former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, denying his government's policy on Macedonian. It's shocking. His government had a national position on the complex name Erga omnes and so on, the one that has been in force since the 2000s. Has the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Government developed it, Mr. Venizelos, in this Chamber, in response to this House? Has she developed it at the UN General Assembly? And the former Prime Minister came yesterday and declared a civil war, denying what happened to his prime minister, denying his national policy if he had it? What was his national policy? The one who proclaimed on the stairs of Syntagma Square at the rally or the one he expressed as Prime Minister? I heard it was shocked. And shocked I heard him talk contemptuously about illegal immigrants. He was shocked to express within the National Representation the argument of the closed and open borders, what the Greek Government has supported since 2015 in all international fora, to contradict the argument of all the far right-wing Visegrad and in particular of Hungarian Prime Minister Orban, who has been inaugurating Greece, because he does not sink boats, because he does not drown people, because you do not violate international conditions, because he does not violate European founding conditions within the Councils of Ministers, within the summits. Does a Greek leader adopt Orban's argument against Greece? Against the UN? Against the European Council? I'm astonished. This minimum confession will be shown on the subject of the Macedonian. This minimum confession, which is urgent - and should not be a minimum, should it be a maximal confession - against Erdogan's insane aggression? It was shocking what they heard yesterday. They are also shocking in a second, perhaps naive, but in my urgent proposal, the reconstruction of the country cannot be the sum of fragmentary planning of successive governments. The country shall be disassembled for at least eight years. To reassemble into a new improved version that will inspire optimism in younger generations, it takes at least ten years at least, it may be fifteen, it may even be twenty. There's no need for a strategic plan. In 1960 Constantine Karamanlis called on Andreas Papandreou from the United States to head the KEPE and make planning. Berkeley's great econometer to come to Greece to work. Here, what are the spiritual and political and moral forces of the noblemen, where one despises the other and former supreme institutional actors, such as Vice-President Venizelos and former Prime Minister Samaras, the court for ultimate treason? No one was tried yesterday. No one is indicted for any guilt. The names have been mentioned, they have come here to move forward and to look at them. If there are responsibilities, they must be attributed to protecting this 'house' of democracy which, with deep suspicion, face millions of our fellow citizens. That's our job. So when we are talking about productive reconstruction, we are talking about dealing with common external risks, about a common course towards the future, we must look for these and see them within. The governments of the forty-four years of the third Hellenic Republic can be credited with many steps towards democracy, but they must all do self-criticism, including the present government, but you have the smallest share of responsibility for the historical accident of 2010, and draw conclusions from it. The culture of state owners and pimps of power is no longer a part of Greek democracy. No one is the owner of democracy, no one is a baron, no one is a guardian, no one is born with the silver spoon of democracy in his mouth. It should draw legitimisation from the people, be constantly accountable to the people and be ready to make self-criticism, judge and be punished if it has violated the oath of democracy. That is the conclusion yesterday, and that is the conclusion of the eight-year-old historical adventure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u254	Thank you very much Mr. Xydakis. I would ask Minister Nektario Santorinio to take the floor. You have the floor for six minutes with tolerance for what you need, Minister. And to say condolences to the loss of your father.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin - and it will be the only diversion from the bill - from the upgrading of Greece from the house 'MODY' S'. Because we heard that in 2014 the country was at this level, I will submit to the minutes the communication of the house "MODY'S" which says something interesting at point five. It says that the risk of a payment stop or debt restructuring in the hands of individuals has been significantly reduced. While Greece was at a corresponding turning point in the middle of 2014, the house considers that the risk of overthrowing or derailing the fiscal and economic progress achieved is significantly lower. So don't tell us that we were in the same situation in 2014. You know, there's a minimum intelligence of someone who can read this announcement. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Mr Nektarios Santorinios, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We shall now proceed to the amendments to the EGF concession. I think that both sides, except perhaps the JRC and the Golden Dawn, agree that this concession contract of the EGF, like that of the PPA, are contracts which contribute to productive reconstruction, create development prospects, and even to the ports that the previous administrations had on purpose let down. Examples have been given by both Mr Lazarides and others, that this port, while it could have potential, some kept it. And the movements didn't keep it in 2008, they didn't keep it, they said, "Don't sell it" in 2008. After having come up with such a good proposal, 400 million for the VET and 400 million for investments by the HUDSON LAUDENTIADE consortium, I think - I do not know why you are forgetting Laurentiadis, why he was inside - why he did not go on? Because it was a lousy deal. It was a deal that wasn't canceled by the movements. It was canceled by reality, because it couldn't be done. And that's clear. Don't ask yourself, Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Plakatakis said so! In 2011, the administration of the EGF had taken a decision with funding guaranteed to extend the EMFF the Problem 6. You know what happened? In 2011, as soon as the shares were transferred to the TIDE by your own decision, the TIDE decided that it is not good for the port to go ahead. So who kept the port there in this situation? The movements or your perception that the V.I.I.D. has to sell for sure? Just so we know what we're talking about in here! From there on, we're talking about contracts. You know, we didn't have a postponing text of yours for the EGH, but we had for the PPA. And when the PPA was granted, the operators themselves said that in the previous draft contract you had not even arranged for work rights, you had not arranged for the Library area, you had not taken care of the archaeological sites in the area of Kinosura, you had not even arranged for the Port Guards School, you had not arranged for the properties of the PATO outside the land area and you had not arranged - listen! - on where the ships from the Port Corps are bound. That's why you didn't even take care of it. That's why we took care of it. The contract, which we have brought, ensured that it was. And he's making sure the EGF does the same thing. What have we done right now through this convention? That virtually ten properties are excluded from the concession plus two public spaces and that Probleta 1 belongs to the people of Thessaloniki, is open to the people of Thessaloniki. I heard: "But it's not given to the municipality!" Truth, for example, is the warehouse given at the Thessaloniki Festival not given to the people of Thessaloniki? Who's gonna use it? Anyone else? I don't really understand what it is I hear! It is also, by express provision, extended for one year after its expiry, the existing collective agreement of workers. The legal procedures for the award of workers' contracts on the basis of private undertakings will be followed from there. The conclusion of the Convention shall not affect the validity or binding validity of regulations adopted by the Board of Directors of the EGF relating to internal organisation and operation or to matters of staff. The EGF shall be required to employ and maintain sufficient numbers and training of the workforce, take appropriate measures and ensure that its staff are familiar with the obligations of the EGF under this Convention. The EGF is also obliged to respect transparency and the concessions, that these subcontractors, too, will respect concessions, respect collective labour contracts, respect environmental commitments and so on. Other issues have been raised, for example the question of overcrowding and S.H.I.E.L.D.. Let's make it clear: the Wolf was given by the previous government to the GOD. The GOI provides for the sale of the assets. And, Mr Carras, you joined this parliamentary group that has done so. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u256	Why do you comment on it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u257	I'm telling you, because you mentioned it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u258	I'll come back and answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u259	It therefore provides for the sale of assets and the transfer of all money to the debt. The excess, therefore, says that 50% goes to debt - rightly - and 50% goes to development projects.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u260	But he asked you how this would be ensured.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u261	It's for sale, Mr. Loverdo. That's clear. It's from the T.I.D. It's clear. He can't go to the suburbs. Other operations will go to the suburbs. So what does Article 199 say? Mr. Amyras asked me, too. It reads: ‘Amount of 50% of profits are paid as dividends and other profits are used for the investment of the company in accordance with the investment policy described in Article 200’. That's right, Mr. Amyras. In Article 200, however, you did not read paragraph 2, which reads: ‘Amounts which, in accordance with Article 199, are used for investment purposes may also be used for the following types of investment: (a) Investments contributing to the strengthening and development of a national economy...’ - you did not read paragraph (a) - ‘... and (b) Investments in the assets of the company...’. One and two or two. You said only the second. The first thing you've probably forgotten about. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u262	For investments in other and other non-FSF subsidiaries.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u263	Except CFS. Yes, HIAD etc. But from the HIAD, as we know, by its founding regulation, all the money goes to debt. The people you're working with, they founded it with. It's not our fault. The question has been raised as to what we are doing with the rest of the ports. That's right. It's a good question. We are therefore in consultation with the port agencies and with the ICTC, and we are building a structured strategic plan, which we will bring to the National Representation and which we will discuss. But we'll bring it when it's mature. But since 2015 something important has been observed in the same ports, with other administrations: In 2016, the port of Alexandroupolis presented an additional 40% turnover, the port of Volos 21.3%, the port of Kavala 25.4%. Elevations are all of them. The only thing that was short of it was the port of Patras. All the rest had an increase. Because, besides a programme, you have to have good administration. And I'm sorry, but you didn't probably have that. So I close: We will try to make use of our ports, to make them a lever of productive reconstruction, but productive reconstruction, which will serve man, will be fair and will not serve the great interests. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u264	Thank you very much to the Minister, Mr Santorinio. We'll get through secondarys. Mr. Marda, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u265	May I speak last, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u266	Mr. Plakyotakis has the floor. I won't put time on you, Mr. Plakatakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Minister, and only in the last ten minutes you have been trying to convince us of the need to promote this concession agreement, that is the only fact that proves that you are basically adopting our own policy, our policy of concessions. Obviously you want to forget what you were saying five and ten years ago. You were talking about selling the harbors when you didn't even know what a concession meant. Concession - so that the viewers and those outside this Chamber can understand us too - means rental. You were talking about selling. Rent is to grant, for a certain period of time, specific investments for specific jobs. To know what we're talking about in this Chamber, because you don't know what you're talking about. Mr Kurublis told us that you will proceed to retreat. You're telling us today that you're bringing us a plan. Decide what you're gonna do. You don't know what you're doing because you don't have a plan. Seeing and doing you are in this government. But Mr. Kurublis says, but you say it today. Bring us a concrete, comprehensive study so that we too can place ourselves on the subject. Finally, you must admit that you are adopting our own policy of granting the ports of the country, which is the right, international practice. You're trying to tell us about the port of Thessaloniki. If things are so good in Thessaloniki, or if things are so good in Alexandroupolis and Kavala and Patras, the privatisations will not proceed. Well, as you say, you're doing well. Isn't that what you're telling us? You're telling us the ports are going well. So don't privatize them. Leave it to the public. But you don't. Why don't you do it? Because there are no public investment to modernise the ports of the country. It's very simple. Secondly, I have raised questions of transfers for the PPA, because they do not go any further. I also want you to let me know if it has been attributed 3.5% to the Municipality of Piraeus. Has it been rendered? This is a very important issue. And you put it as a matter of the Organization of Thessaloniki, the 3.5% performance, and the Municipality of Thessaloniki and the Municipality of Ampelokipou - Meneme. But will you do the same as you did to Piraeus? I also told you about the abolition of the third duty shift. Will you contact the Treasury? This is a very important matter for the exporters and importers of Northern Greece. And finally, Minister, I just told you that IDU - and I told you quite clearly - is causing problems with the monitoring of the concession contract. Do you want to have the same problems in the port of Thessaloniki? Decide what you will do because - take care of me - if you want to keep the IAL - Mr. Lambridis is behind you - abolish the General Secretariat of Ports of Port Policy and Maritime Investment, abolish the RAL, let Mr. Bakopoulos do what he wants, take over the shipyards, take over the concessions, make the Deputy Minister do the Minister. Is that what you want to do? So, Mr President, I am making it clear that the New Democracy was, is and will be in favour of concessions, for investment in the ports of the country, because the ports of the country, beyond the investment role they can play, are hubs strategic for the development of the country. We were the ones who brought a global port provider and opened not only the traffic in the port of Piraeus, which now boasts the current government that it is today in the 32rd place, but we have also achieved and ensured strategic relations with a state. Because 'COSCO' - and we must not forget that - is a state-owned company. So we have a contract with the Chinese state. So this policy, no matter how much the SYRIZA officials do not want to remember, we must remind them in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u268	Thank you very much. Mr George-Dimitrios Karras has the floor from the Democratic Association. I'm not putting time on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u269	No, I'll be relatively short. First of all, I did not receive any reply, Mr President, to any question that I raised both in terms of the price of the company's reserves, whether these would be to the new owner, the new shareholder. I did not get any answers, and that is strange because I asked for the minimum. I have asked that the stock-purchase contract be lodged in the House. It is that document which, in the nature of the extra-corporation agreement, defines relations and defines the concession contract, which now comes in the form of ratification by law. Is that so secret? I have said something else, Mr President. I said that since the HIAD is a subsidiary company of the supranational government - and this cannot be called into question - and the super-currency will also receive a dividend from the activities of the HIAD, that half of the EUR 231 million be made available, that connections with the railway line and PATHE should be made to ensure that the money is left in Thessaloniki - and that the port should, in the end, also operate. Because I hear in committee and in plenary that there is an issue of interconnection. The Greek State takes care of it. It is well known that we do not know whether the Greek State will be able in time to settle it, settle it or wait, so we will give the investor an argument to resolve this issue as well. That seems to me, because I do not have the government's answers, Mr President, have disturbed and made comments on my cooperation or not with the Group of the European Democratic Alliance. I don't think it's his business. It's my decision. Therefore, comments of this kind are at least unfavourable. And I do not understand how it relates, Mr President, to the application of the legislation. Me, this piece of legislation, as I've said in the first place, didn't convince me. That is why we are simply saying our presence as a Democratic Independent. And I can explain the reason for that. The questions we have raised are crucial. We did not receive answers or at least the answers which were tried to be given were insufficient. This means that the government cannot assure us that this particular concession agreement will work not only for the national economy but also for the local society and for northern Greece. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr. Kouzilos has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u271	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will start with two memos sent to our e-mail from the Port Authority. One is for traffic, and the other is for licenses. You need to see what is going on with the two specific issues and solve them, because they are problems that exist since 2014 and have not yet been solved. In the second part I would like to mention, it is the peripheral ports. As Mr Santorinis quite rightly said, we are seeing an increase. What is the matter and is the whole problem and all that worrying? I'll bring in a very simple example, the port of Corfu. As Mr Kourublis has said, parts of the port will be given for certain uses, such as the cruise. The increase you said at the port of Corfu is mainly from the cruise. If we give this, then what will be left to the Greek public? And what's it gonna get from this particular one? In conclusion, I would like to say that the New Democracy will be good to read the Minutes, to see what it said when selling the PPA for labour and transfers. He has to see what he was saying at the time, 'cause they're probably forgetting. We must remember, however, one more thing, because we do not forget it. We have mentioned this many times in parliamentary control and previous bills. What about the Croatian boats? That's right, Mr. Dritsa has been mentioned, too. The matter was left at the moment, and nobody gave any notice for two whole years. He was in the government of New Democracy - PASOK. All this has not yet been solved. There's still a problem. And there are responsibilities. Now here you come, because someone was responsible at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u272	Thank you very much. Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. A debate on the privatizations and variations that they can take has been resumed today. In fact, the debate has come to put labels: left, right, good, bad privatizations. Look, there was a controversy - if you like - between SYRIZA and the New Democracy, but also in the Democratic Partnership before, to privatise the port of Thessaloniki and privatise in general. The confrontation between you before cannot hide your agreement with these privatisations - and with Thessaloniki in particular - because very simply privatisation today is a key element in the capital strategy. And with your policy, of course, you are all serving it. I would, however, like to say, Mr President, to Scaramaga and say that there are two phrases on the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Defence to describe today's reality: depreciation of the shipyards that are evolving, payment and uncertainty for the workers. I will mention the history very briefly: until 2014 the Arab-German monopoly 'PRIVINVEST' and 'TENCENT', after having poured out the 3 billion euros of contracts, then denounced these contracts without delivering anything from the project. The two thousand employees took them to the eighty-five employees and from 2012 until April 2014 he refused - and even today he refuses - to pay the wages of workers and their insurance contributions, despite the fact that the relevant decisions of the courts have been made, which justify workers and obliges the Arab-German monopoly to pay. That's all the government's crumbs! Since 2014, the Ministry of Defence has been paying the employees, reducing wages directly and, of course, imposing individual contracts of employment. The current government, however, also continues to unfold the European Union's shipyard plans and haggles the future of the shipyards with new, warm, of course, money and the related privileges, without any guarantee of jobs and workers' rights. As part of the European Union's policy, the commercial part of the Scaramaga shipyard is sold out to a Turkish business group, the '3' tank, while the most characteristic example of abandonment and depreciation is the plunging, please, a month ago, of one of the two floating tanks of the shipyard. I think that the deadlock of today's capitalist development - on which you are, of course, also - designed by the European Union and implemented by the current government is clear. And it is disastrous for both the workers and the productive potential that this country has to put them to the benefit of the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Delia, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u275	I am closing, specifically speaking of the amendment, which does indeed give a small, temporary extension of life, i.e. until June 2018. We will not say 'no' to pay workers. As far as the real problem is concerned, however, it does not respond to the concerns of the workers, nor can we vote for it, which is why we choose'residents'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Lazarides has the floor. I don't give you time. Be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. I would not have taken the floor if no references to the foreign policy of the present government had been made before, and if it had not been preceded by the way in which the PASOK Parliamentary spokesman was posted. Here I would like to say to PASOK that it should be more careful. And I would like to remind you that it was the party that had the steering wheel of the country in 1996, when it started this sad story in Imia, which ended with the retreat, with the order to turn our warships back and suffer the Greek soldiers, who were on the island of Imia, the flag. Because, then, Pangalos said - if I remember correctly - that flags often take the air. I would not say that if the PASOK Parliamentary spokesman were not put in this way. Nor should we forget that at the time the Imia story was created, we had the case with Ocalan - it was the period that governed the PASOK with Simitis - which made the famous tour Corfu - Europe - Africa and they delivered it. That was the proud policy and they are now criticising this government. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Remember, furthermore, the words of Pangalos that "the underdeveloped is a people, the more bound to its symbols", wanting to make negative criticisms because the Greeks are sensitive to our flag. I have heard the New Democracy talking about the magical world of privatisation and investment. In fact, he asked one spokesman of the New Democracy: 'This government, what investment did it make?' I reverse the question. Let the New Democracy tell us what investments it has made. Two hundred and fifty-two thousand operations have been closed. It's the definition of deinvestment. And if they are invited here to talk about investments, don't tell us "let's bring this mall". It's wrong. If the shopping centers mean investment, why did they shut down all those stores in the country? Why did these two parties, New Democracy and PASOK blame the trading world for being counterproductive? That's what they said about the commercial world, that it's counterproductive, that we need to invest in production, etc. No investment brought these parties. And, despite talking about privatizations, they are the parties that embraced more tightly than any other party or political area for state-owned enterprises, as well as state-owned personalities. What I saw here yesterday as a Member - because I come from this once great and proud New Democracy party - this picture I saw conspired by the Members of the New Democracy - all right, PASOK are justified because they were conspiring to tighten the hand of a personality, which was the man of the special missions of Simitis - to greet this man, I never expected that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u278	Who are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u279	I'll tell you now. Don't be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u280	I was wrong that I didn't put time, because that doesn't exist in the Greek Parliament, if it doesn't take time. Other Vultures probably...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u281	I shall conclude in a minute, Mr President. Now I'd be done. I mean that when I say 'State personalities', I mean individuals who have never been involved in the private sector and who have, as a spearhead, been put on them to set up and organize, supposedly, their economic policy. I'm talking about this particular personality and I'll tell you who: 1986-1989: Counsellor at the beginning of the careers of the Ministry of Finance on public enterprises. 1989-1994: Adviser to the Bank of Greece. 1994-2000: The Ministry of Finance, in the monetary union negotiations. 1994-1997: Vice-President DEPA. Second place in the same period. 1998-2000: Member of the Board of Directors. Public Debt Management Agency. 2002-2004: President of the Commercial Bank, when the Commercial Bank began to disintegrate, because of this situation. In 2012, he took up government duties and then Commander of the Bank of Greece. I'm talking about Mr. Stournara, of course. I'm talking about a man who never acted in the private sector. Never! And I made reference to this route, because there was a period of three places in the public sector. And it was inconceivable what they did, at least the New Democracy MPs, who were conspiring there to greet him. Here I ask the following question: From this route he took, has he left a positive print somewhere? And yet, this man had him as Finance Minister and they handed him over the Bank of Greece. Anyway, I've never been personally attacked by anyone. However, I have the right to criticise people who are responsible for policy and which is about the economics of the country. It is the duty of the Members. It's not just a right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u282	Are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u283	I'm closing here, Mr. President. There has already been a dialogue on ICT and the ultra-peripheral. I mean - as we have said earlier - that it is clear that everything that goes on in the HSE is for sale. It's not about anything else. It's for sale only. The money that comes from the sale goes to the public debt of 100%, while at the supreme point, it's for recovery. It says so clearly in the media. In any case, these financial results resulting from the use of half will go to debt, the other half will go to investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, fifty-six students and students and three educational sessions from the 6th High School of Larissa (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Amyras has the floor. Mr. Amyura, I need to put time, because you put time and you don't keep it, imagine you don't put time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u285	You put me in, you don't give me time, I watch him, so put me in.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u286	How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u287	I'll be done in three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u288	Well, well, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u289	I am not going to talk, but I have to answer two things now. First of all, I would like to mention Mr Stournara, who was also in IOBE. IOBE what is it, Mr. Lazarides? Is this the Ministry of Education? It's private. You're saying he never stepped on the private sector. But, besides, now, we're going to get into a situation where we're going to blame Stournara on staff and the other one for justifying him? I don't think that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u290	Don't we have a right to criticize?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u291	Sure. And everyone is judged by his CV, my dear colleague. Mr Stournara's curriculum also has two very successful years as Minister of Finance in a difficult period, much more successful than Mr Varoufakis, your Minister. So we're going down. Secondly, as far as investment is concerned. Because we need to constantly level everything and say that no investment has ever been made in Greece. How did it not happen? "HEWLET - PACKARD" you know her? The 'COSCO', which, in essence, is a queue of privatization of the port of Piraeus, what is it? Is that ghost?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u292	I made it clear. I said 'investments in relation to production'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u293	Is it not a productive investment in the ‘COSCO’ port? Isn't it productive? Let me just tell you this. One who sells hats and exports, one Greek...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u294	The relaxation of the lunch doesn't allow that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u295	To understand the concept of productive and development, I will give you an example. A Greek who makes jackets and imports the buttons, you know to take the container or export the jacket before "COSCO" how much did he pay for the container and how many days did he have? It had seven days to wait and the container was three times more expensive as a process for the Greek trader or crafter than today. So this isn't a productive situation forward? I'm on my way. We must be a little more focused on national issues, just like that, and especially on the Imperial issue. I will ask my dear fellow Member: can you today, Mr Colleague, go with a hamburger in Imia? Can you press your leg? I don't think so. And that will be charged to your government. I am not saying that a Greek cannot step on his feet in Imia, that is what it was missing, but keep the profile down, because the Turks where they were talking about gray zones are now talking about black zones and consider themselves as their own right and the maritime area of the Imian islands and the Imian islands, which is, of course, unacceptable, outside of all logic and against international law. The Turks should know that they will always have the answer they deserve from the Greeks. And the Greeks are not divided into national issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u296	Last, Mr. Mardas has the floor. How much time do you want, Mr. Marda?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u297	I would like three minutes, so that my dear colleague does not think I have an advantage. Look, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the concession differs. Privatisation by privatisation differs. We have concessions in favour of the public interest in a spectacular way, and a great deal of evidence has been given here, and we have concessions resulting from an earlier depreciation process. The same is true of privatization. And this process of obtaining public property during any privatisation or concession from a regime, which is considered liberal or neoliberal, or anything else, in any case, is often not accidental. I tabled to the Minutes and would call on the New Democracy's dear colleague to read what Nobel Prizef Stiglic has said about the process of privatization before privatizations. He considers it to be a treacherous act, aimed at some things. That's not what we've done. And the fact that we have sought to keep the port of Thessaloniki in the best possible condition is that we have chosen an administration, which should come to me to find a better manager in terms of its quality characteristics than in the past or what is on the market. We have placed a doctor who deals with the sea and the ports all his life, and we have not placed a legal person who is a very good athlete. Because when there are people who don't know what to do, we now come to a funny point: need the state - I come to the EGF - who is the EGF three years to communicate with the state, where TRAINOSE is, to interconnect what? The port with the Balkans, with Turkey. Three years by rail, which has been there since my childhood! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u298	They're going with the old train of Charilaos Trikoupi, it seems.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u299	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u300	How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u301	Five minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u302	Let's do self-discipline exercises. Mr Nektarios Santorinios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u303	I'll try to keep the time. Mr Amyras' last sentence was redemptive. I would say that we should not disagree on national policy issues. And from here, we must excite the fact that Imia - since I come from the region - is Greek and there are no gray zones in the Aegean, so that we can finish with this. And, Mr Amyras, whether or not someone can go to Imia, that's another story, which is good not to be discussed in public. Imia is Greek, on Greek soil everyone can go. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u304	Don't say it like that because they'll think we're saying the opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u305	Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u306	All right, let's leave it there, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u307	Let's leave it there. It's good to stay there.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u308	Same thing we say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u309	I agree. I'm not blaming you. Mr. Carras, you will forgive me, but the TIADE has ruled in New Democracy - PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u310	But today, you rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u311	Wait a minute. So I told you about the initial concession contract...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u312	Mr. Carras wasn't at PASOK at the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u313	Yes, that's right, Mr. Bored. The initial concession contract was prepared by the Government of New Democracy - PASOK. We have changed it, and indeed a great deal. That's what I told you, you're sympathetic to PASOK. And it has a historic route PASOK cannot erase it because it became a Democratic Participation. There is. You get along with them, it's your choice, and you're fine. Now, because Mr. Plakkatakis asked about the transfers, he amazes me that he asked about the transfers because they were rheumatological. So they yelled when we passed to the PPA and told us "what you are doing, you people are doing, you are state-owned" etc. Anyway, Mr. Placiotakis, since you want to know, the Ministry of Administrative Reform has asked the public authorities for posts to be covered by these transfers. I saw that you tried to create a confusion, because I said that we are making a strategic plan for the development of ports, which we will bring and say, on the other hand, that the Minister says of retreat. Who told you something different? Under concessions, but what they will be, what they will be, at what price we must bring it and discuss it and be in the context of a strategic plan. No, let's give this today and see what we'll give tomorrow. It needs a strategic plan, which will have a start and an average and an end, and above all it will be for the country's productive reconstruction. We have no other anxiety than the country's productive reconstruction and the added value that these concessions will give to these ports. And because it is bad to talk about people who cannot speak in this Chamber, I will not refer to those names. You seem to have an allergy to the public port authority. Let me remind you that the institutions were asking to become a public port authority, as is happening in all ports. There are public authorities representing the public in all ports that exist in private entities, whether in total concessions or in concessions. This is the Public Port Authority. So neoliberal are you now? Would you like to abolish whatever exercises public control? Such neoliberal immunity? I can't understand it. Anyway, I don't think he's paying tribute to anyone in this country that we've had fifty-four shipwrecks that've been there all these years. I remember your statements, I think, in a committee on 'Athens ZONI', which you said: 'What can we do? Not all shipwrecks can be lifted, because what is in the interest of lifting up is being lifted. Others stay there.’ Well, they can't stay there. We have to do something. And we must do something in any way that benefits the public interest. I think we are moving in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendment of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Islands Policy is adjourned: "Since February 2, 2018, it was amended and consolidated in a single text of June 27, 2001, Concession Convention between the Greek Government and the "Organisation of Ports of Thessaloniki A. Hey." and other provisions.’; Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u317	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u318	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u319	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u323	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘State it from February 2, 2018, of amendment and codification in a single text of 27 June 2001, Concession Agreement between the Greek State and the Port Authority of Thessaloniki A. Hey." Other provisions were adopted by a majority in principle. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u327	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u328	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u332	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u335	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u336	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u337	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u341	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u345	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u346	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u350	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u352	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u354	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u355	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u359	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u362	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u363	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u364	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u368	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u371	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u372	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u373	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u377	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u381	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u382	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u386	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u389	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u390	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u391	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u395	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 9, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u396	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u399	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u400	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u403	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u404	Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u408	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u409	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u413	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u416	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u417	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u418	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u422	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 12 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u426	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u427	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u431	Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1484 and a special number 31 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u436	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u439	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u440	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1484 and a special 31 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Structuring of 2 February 2018 amendment and codification in a single text of 27 June 2001 A concession agreement between the Greek State and the “State of Thessaloniki A. E.” and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and on the articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u443	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u444	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u445	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u449	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Standard of 2 February 2018 amending and coding in a single text of 27 June 2001 Concession Convention between the Greek State and the “State of Thessaloniki A. E.” and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and the whole of the articles and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u450	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u451	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-22-S1-commons.u452	With the consent of the House at 17.28 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 23 February 2018 at 10.00 hours, on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
