ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 11]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou, informs Parliament that the following topical questions will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the competent ministers: The third, with number 1916/3-7-2018, a top-circuit question for the first-circuit MEP, Mr. Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Read further clarifications on the irreversible in the Armed Forces", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of National Defence Mr. Panos Kammenos Kammenos. Grounds for: emergency problem related to the Ministry of National Defence. The fourth under number 1884-26-2018 topical question by MP 2 Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Unfavourable developments regarding the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ)”, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou. Cause: trip outside Greece. The seventh question, No. 1729/30-5-2018, topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Forest capacity of the Greeks", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Finance Euklidis Tsakalotou. Cause: trip outside Greece. Eleventh question under number 1518-17-2018 of a second question from the Vice-President of the Parliament and Independent MEP, Piraeus Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the problems of 4 million borrowers, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotou. Cause: traveling outside Greece. The second question under number 1886/26-2018 of the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Kallichadsis – Koudras – Bobolas", is dealt with in connection with the group "AKOOR" and the proposed "ELLAKOPOR". Why do you represent the deaf and blind and allow the Securities and Exchange Committee not to protect shareholders, investors, banks and, ultimately, the interests of the public?" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou. Cause: traveling outside Greece. The fifth under No. 1861/25-2018 topical question from the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukokorous, on the subject: "An unjustified increase in objective values in Soro and Alykes Volos", is not discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Papanatsiou. Cause: Workload. The sixth question under number 1855/25-2018, topical question by MP II of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The need to restore the injustice against the owners of the refugee camps called upon to pay for an exterminant ENVIA", is not discussed due to an obstruction of the State Secretary of Finance, Mr. Papanatsiou. Cause: Workload. Eighth No. 1588/3-5-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the future of the Greek Defence Industry", is not discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Kouveli. Cause: Not discussed. Likewise, the ninth No. 1538/23-2018 topical question of the Second Cycle of the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need for an increase in military service", is not discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Kouveli. Cause: Not discussed. The tenth under No. 1539/23-4-2018 topical question from the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: “About the participation of army officers in a party course of the KKE”, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Kouveli. Cause: Not discussed. Also, the first with number 5420/25-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by the Independent MEP Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Bull of ready-to-hand weapons", is not discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Kouveli. Cause: Not discussed. The first under number 1911/2-7-2018, a topical question by MP II Athens, Nea Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Sighing fish keeps the Ministry of Finance regarding the procurement of the Public Debt Management Agency (PESH) with the investment bank Rothschild”, is not discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Juliarakis. Cause: Service trip abroad. Finally, the second question by number 1910/2-7-2018, first question by MP Carditsa, New Democracy, Konstantinos Tsiaras, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Pediatric Clinic General Carditsa", is not discussed. Cause: Workload. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour of informing the House that the Independent Member of Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, with his statement, resigns from the position of Vice-President of Parliament. The relevant statement by Mr Kammenos shall be recorded in the Minutes and shall be as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u3	I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 ‘Priminal Responsibility of Ministers’, as applicable, on 6-7-2018: Criminal proceedings concerning: 1. Ioannis Stournara, former Minister for Finance 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Georgios Mavragani, former Deputy Minister of Finance 3. Ioannis Vroutzis, former Minister for Labour, Social Security and Welfare 4. Ioannis Michalakis, former Minister for the Interior and 5. Ms. Mitsotakis, former Minister of Administrative Reform and Electronic Governance. We now move on to the debate of the first under number 1913/3-7-2018 on a topical question from the Halkidiki MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Igleze to the Minister of Health, on "Serious shortages of medical staff in the Halkidiki Prefecture". The Minister of Health, Mr. Blondos, will answer. Please, Mrs. Iglezi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the subject we are discussing today concerns the serious deficiencies in medical staff in the Prefecture of Halkidikis, especially at the Polypowerful Physician of the Municipality of Aristotle and at the Polypowerful Physician of Sykia Municipality. The two regional hospitals were turned into multipowered, of Ierissos in 2009 with the FEK 863/8-05-2009 and Sykia in 2006 with the FEK 1440/11-10-2006. Thus, according to the new organograms, at the Polyvalent Ierissus Medical School, three doctors of general medicine, a pediatrician, a dentist, and four paramedical staff posts are provided. Sadly, however, right now at the Polypowerful Ierissus Medical School serves only one physician, who was recently placed by the Ministry to cover the total lack of doctors for a number of months. I must also note that this doctor is expected to leave August. As far as the Polyvalent Physician of Sykia is concerned, his organogram provides for three positions of doctors of general medicine, one position of a pediatrician and three positions of paramedical staff. At the moment, however, in the Polyvalent Physician of Sykias there is no doctor, since one of the two who served has been seconded to a hospital in Thessaloniki, without being replaced, while the latter is on sick leave. Finally, in the island of Ammoulian the doctor who was recently appointed is on leave of threatened pregnancy. The doctor covering the vacuum created is expected to meet the medical needs from 1-07-2018 to 30-09-2018. After all, because the issue of health is of paramount importance and because both permanent residents and visitors are currently healthly disabled, I ask: What action do you intend to take to solve the problem of a lack of doctors in the abovementioned areas immediately? Secondly - and most importantly - will care be taken to ensure that the Polyvalent Regional Physicians of Ierissos and Sykia, according to their organograms and obtain the necessary medical equipment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u5	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u6	My dear colleague, what I think you are highlighting with your question is a difficulty in covering with doctors of certain primary care structures, not in general the services of the ESS in the Halkidiki Prefecture, but certain specific primary care structures that are indeed subordinated over time. Although it had been planned with an FEK since 2009 for Ierissos to become a multi-powered regional office for Sykia as well as for Sykia since 2006, positions have never actually been declared and were usually covered with doctors who are responsible for the countryside. Some pregnancies have happened at the present time, as in the Regional Medical Institute of Ammouliani, which created this malfunction. As far as Ierissos is concerned, the urgent need with a doctor has indeed been met. Fortunately, we have a systematic cooperation with the Ministry of National Defence and when there are positions in the public health system that despite repeated invitations, there is no response that strengthens us. Unfortunately, this is happening in some areas. Despite the motives we have given, and despite the fact that we have given an additional bonus of a barren area to about four hundred regional hospitals throughout the country, in some cases, unfortunately, there is no response. There is therefore a provisional solution for the individual doctor and after his term of office he will be next. Obviously, we won't leave it uncovered. The important thing, however, is that at this time we have a plan of recruiting permanent doctors of the ESS in health centres throughout the country, in agricultural and urban types. I believe we will be able by the end of the month to proclaim these positions. It is about four hundred fifty and has a dispersion throughout Greece. So in these positions, in this distribution, we have predicted two positions for the Multi-purpose Regional Physician of Ierissos, a position of the pediatrician and a general doctor. I think that the position of a pediatrician has been declared for the first time since 2009. We also have anticipated two other positions, a pediatrician at the Cassandria Health Center and a dentist at the Palaiochori Health Center. So in the county health centers, we're just trying to meet needs. Now, as far as the Polypowerful Regional Medicine of Sykia is concerned, a single rural doctor has actually served today, but there has been one care and has been moved from 4 July by a protracted general medical practitioner - essentially completed his training, is like a qualified doctor, namely - who has been assigned to this regional doctor. And in Ammouliani, because of the pregnancy of the doctor responsible for the countryside, there is an attempt - and I think this has been effectively addressed - to fill this gap with movements of general doctors made by the adjacent health centres of the 4th Health Area. I have been informed by the service that two doctors from the Thermi Health Center have moved for July 15 days.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u7	Please, Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u8	I will only say two words, Mr President. It's obvious there's a problem. We are making an effort, taking advantage of all possibilities and possible synergies from neighbouring services, to fill this gap. We understand that it concerns tourist areas, areas which are heavily affected by the summer season, and so demand increases. It has a development dimension, obviously, to have reliable and well-trained health services, and we will proceed with the steps that I have told you before making an effort in particular for the Polypowerful Regional Hospital of Ierissos to strengthen its laboratory support, making the necessary modifications and reforms of the spaces to welcome radiological and microbiological laboratories.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u9	Please, Mrs Inglezi, you have the floor for three minutes for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. As you said, and as you know, Minister, Halkidiki is a prefecture where special geomorphological factors, climate conditions and increased tourist movement are combined. This means that difficult weather conditions prevail in winter. In the summer, the increased number of visitors makes travel difficult. The morphology of the road network is particularly important and quality very low. The kilometre distances that one needs to reach from the peninsulas of Halkidiki to the capital of the prefecture, where the hospital is long and correspondingly long. Finally, the population of Halkidiki is multiplying in the summer due to tourism. All this means that the existence of adequate medical staff is more than necessary. As far as Ammouliani is concerned, it is very important and very positive that a doctor has been found to meet the needs of the island - and very quickly after the vacancy that has been created - and what you are saying is very positive, that he will continue to be covered by doctors' movements until the doctor returns back. We have to take care of this so that the services are provided and do not stop on 30 September because, as you can see, the island is often excluded due to weather conditions and the world is excluded there and has no access to land. Now, in relation to the Polypowerful Physician of Sykias I should mention that the nearest health center is located in Agios Nikolaos Halkidikis and is 50 km away, i.e. 52 minutes private car, and the nearest hospital in Polygyros is 100 km away and one hour to travel there. Common sense says that all the positions of medical and paramedical staff of the Polyvalent Physician Sykia provided for by the establishment plan must be permanently covered and staff should not be seconded without immediate replacement being ensured. Indeed, it is as you say, that although they were proclaimed and published FEK that these two doctorates are becoming very powerful, they have never had the staffing that suits them in multi-powered medical establishments. Finally, as far as the Ierissos region is concerned, which is my special homeland, I consider it to be my moral obligation to finally function the practice as a multi-powered person. It is very important that what you have just announced is that there will be two doctors' seats, and even a child's place, first time in Ierissos, which this winter experienced a tragic situation - the least I can say is that it is tragic - that there are no doctors at all for prescribing and that people were forced to go to a private doctor and pay for their prescription.From 2009 it was characterised as a multi-powered and staffing and its equipment have been left on paper. So you realise, Minister, how serious a problem this is for the wider region, as the Polyvalent Irritory of Ierissos must serve all the neighbouring communities. To find medical services that should be provided there, one should go to the nearest health center or to the hospital in the prefecture’s capital. Both are about half an hour away from Ierissos, while at the same time there is no public transport for the hospital. It is very important that you announced that the multi-powered medical office will acquire equipment and will finally work as multi-powered. It is vital that the citizen of a favoured state feels security regarding the highest quality of health services. In a tourist prefecture such as Halkidiki, health benefits and services are really a development infrastructure - you said so too - because the other does not come to take a vacation in an area where he is not covered in terms of health. I am sure you will see to it that a definitive solution is given to these serious and chronic problems that afflict the Halkidiki society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u12	I will only say a few words, Mr President. The primary health care, as the health system as a whole, seems to have suffered a very serious negative interference in the years of the crisis and the years of cuts and austerity measures. There are still open wounds, but we think we're in a healing phase. The truth is that hospital support in previous years was prioritised, because that was where the large volume of demand for services was transferred by the citizens and was primarily at risk. I think that there has been an effort with the recruitment of permanent and subsidiary staff. It was catalytic that two thousand subsidiary doctors were recruited in the past two years. The health system was thus kept up, of course thanks to the contribution of the rest of the staff. I think that now is the period when we can give a priority and an emphasis also on primary health care. This year, in 2018, we take off these posts. It's about a thousand five hundred doctors' organic gaps in primary health care. A part of it, about one/3, will cover it with these four hundred fifty posts that I have told you about. Obviously there are many more needs and they will certainly be covered in a recruitment plan that will be in place from the next phase, after the end of the Memorandum of Understanding and the arrangements for 2019, i.e. we will have a ratio of recruitment for a withdrawal. We will reach an overall agreement with the government, see the ratio that results in the area of health and make the best possible distribution, obviously with priority in subordinated structures, such as those described. One crucial reason why we must not underestimate him - because people are listening to us too - that we have a difficulty at this time in fully covering the gaps, especially in the province, in feral areas, in island areas, etc., is that the available tank has been reduced by doctors in Greece. They have emigrated abroad about eighteen thousand doctors during the crisis. This, then, has reduced the possibility of being covered by the existing doctors by all the positions that are being proclaimed. It is a wager for the state to give a signal to young children, to our country's excellent doctors, that there is a period of now where positions are being called on the public health system and primary health care, but also to hospitals, emergency departments, to the U.S. clinics, so there is a prospect of permanent work. There is a process of reopening the EEAS contracts with professional doctors. There we are trying to give room to young doctors who so far, the previous six to seven years, were completely excluded from this system. Generally speaking, there is an attempt to give a signal that there is a decent professional and scientific perspective in our country. I think that this will be the solution, i.e. the reversal of today's Brain Drain and the possibility, obviously, with limited wage pay - we cannot give Europe's wages, that is for sure - to upgrade doctors' education and give us a more guaranteed work perspective.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u13	Thank you. I would like to make some announcements to this House. MEP I'Athens Ms Theodora Bakoyannis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 9-7-2018 to 10-7-2018 to be found in Ankara as an official guest at the ceremony of the President of the Republic of Turkey. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u14	The House therefore approved the requested permission. MEP Rodopi Ilhan Ahmet seeks permission from a few days' absence abroad to attend the sworn ceremony of the newly elected President of the Republic of Turkey, Erdogan. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u15	The House therefore approved the requested permission. MP II Athens Mr Nikolaos - George Dendias asks for permission from a few days' absence abroad from 10-7-2018 to 12-7-2018 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u16	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Independent MP II of Athens Mr.Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis seeks permission from a few days' absence abroad due to obligations from 10-7-2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u17	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take note of this House that the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee on the Journal, set up on 22-5-2017, in accordance with Rules 44 and 45 of the Rules of Procedure of this House and for which Parliament's plenary has set a deadline for submitting its report by the end of the session of the Third Session of the IZ, calls for an extension of its operation until 31 October 2018. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u18	The House agreed. We move to the third under No 1824/18-6-2018 a topical question from the New Democracy MP Mr.Kissos Economou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The government's failure leads to a health bomb due to HIV." Please, Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, it is a very serious issue which forces me to come back to the House again in addition to my dear colleague Jason Fotilla, who put it a few weeks ago. We have already heard the community of patients, which is ringing the alarm, who has become a bell that flies all over the place, and we have done four - I have only recorded four in 2017 - questions. And it is not just us who raise the issue of the lack of reagents and the examination of viral load and genotypic resistance. I read that there are multiple reports of the "Theoretical Voice", which, as you know, is the Association of Serious Greeks. Multiple comments and locations from the Study and Management of AIDS by Mr. Lazanas. I also have the placements from the Citizen's Counselor, Minister. And this is the most alarming report. Don't listen to us. You may join us in a party political controversy, but the Citizens' Counsel is an Independent Authority, which has the respect and appreciation of all of us. I see that since March 2017 he's been trying to get in touch with the Ministry and the CDC in vain. He's knocking on a door, which doesn't open. In fact, I see here at a press conference organized by the "Theoretical Voice" that the competent specialist scientists of the Citizen's Counsel tells us that cooperation with the Ministry of Health and CEDEFOP is very bad. This characterizes it, noting that it does not correspond to the seriousness of the matter. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a minute, Mr President. You have also served as Minister and you understand the importance of this. That is why the Citizens' Counselor was unable to complete his investigation and had no updates on the extent of the problem or the level of response of the state, which the state has obviously not responded to in this case. When for two years, Minister, everyone has been telling you, the opposition, the institutional factors, the independent authorities, the people who have the problem, the patients' clubs - "the Positive Voice" etc. - that there are no reagents, aren't you worried? How do you sleep at night? So, you go to sleep at night, with an open big issue in your area of competence, which is the issue of these people, who do not know if their treatment is properly done, do not know whether the viral load is at the levels that should be or whether genotypic resistance works in a way that makes the treatment constructive and does not actually strengthen the virus? These are issues that should be in the first pursuit of a government and a political leadership to solve them. And anyway, these were under way. Do you not agree with the way the international competition launched in 2012? Do something. You have said two, three times - I have heard you in the Committee on Social Affairs and here in reply a few days ago to Mr Jason Foila - that matters will be initiated. But the issues are not underway. I am also hitting the alarm, concern and reflection of people who are in the problem and society as a whole, who really expect answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u20	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u21	Mr Economou, I really take this question as a sincere wish to give a definitive solution to this problem, and not as the occasion of investing in a political confrontation over an existing, indeed, problem, which is time-consuming and which leaves us exposed - if you like - as a state, because we have not yet found an effective way to close this loose end. Therefore, the lack of sensitivity or lack of awareness of the problem or indifference has arisen, but it is due to a very specific malfunction of the administrative mechanism of the CCIO which, following its entry into the public accountancy in 2016, effectively lost a discretion that had to manage funds and personnel, as in the past. As far as I'm concerned, it's good that's done. Because you know very well and society knows now that this body, despite its very important role in the protection of public health, was a field that favoured various kinds of irregularities, waste, provoking demand, corruption, etc. The problem is, therefore, that various efforts have been made, which have not been carried out. At this time, and after repeated interventions, which have been made - and rightly so - by the seropositive associations, the doctors of the infectious agents involved in this - I have spoken personally, it is true, too, too, that the 'Theoretical Voice' and Mr Lazana and all the parties involved - are, in parallel with the efforts which the CEDEFOP continues to do and which are being carried out - now only the Athens workshop is pending, and for the remaining three reference laboratories/centres the contract procedure with CEDEFOP has been completed - these laboratories, on behalf of the CEDEFOP, to carry out the examinations and CEDEFOP to compensate for them. Unfortunately, however, since there is a time-consuming process in public administration and in public accounting, we have chosen the solution for the EEAS to take place provisionally and until this problem has been fully restored by certified private laboratories through a special procedure to ensure the anonymity of the seropositive. In other words, the samples will be coded and the name will not be named. A special procedure will be carried out through the electronic prescribing system of the HICP, anonymised, with a specific code maintained by the CCP in its registers to cover this demand. And of course the cost will be paid by the EEA. This is the solution we have chosen. He's in the final preparation phase, from what I've been informed today by the EEAS. There have also been discussions with the healers, the healing doctors, both with the HICP and with the diagnostic centers, so that they can move forward immediately, remove the problem and address the urgent situation. Let me say at this point that indeed the measure of the viral load is important, it is necessary, but it is not the only one to assess the immune response of a patient to antiretroviral treatment. There are other indicators. There are also clinical data which are considered. Obviously, that's not an excuse. It is, however, one of the parameters that must be met to get a proper treatment. I would also like to say that the crucial issue, my dear colleague, is that the seropositives have access to the anti-retroviral medicines needed for them. This is the intervention that ensures that there is no health bomb. That's what's there today. Obviously, for reasons of proper and substantiated medical surveillance we must have all the data, so also the control of the viral load. However, I tell you that the crucial issue is that these people take their treatment, that there are no deficiencies in antiretroviral medicines. I would remind you that a few years ago this was neither a given nor a self-evident one. Now there's a regularity of access to their allowances from the EEAS. I think, indeed, that this has been recognised. I believe that this difficulty is slowly overcome. I hope this will be final.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Economou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not going to open the conversation on the CDC. I want to avoid her because it doesn't matter right now. I want to focus on the debate on this particular problem. It's a big conversation. Apparently, we're going to be off another time. I, in fact, do not claim that there is a problem in the approach or supply of medicines by patients. I barely did. In fact, I read here that their antiretroviral therapy is worth about seven thousand euros per person. Be careful, the debate is taking place to examine the 100 euros. How much does it cost to run this test?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u24	That's how much it's costed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u25	We are now talking, Mr President-in-Office, about the EUR 100 problem. In other words, we're drowning in a spoonful of water. You're going to tell me: Since you have access to an accurate treatment, is it a problem? It's a problem, because it's a blind cure. You guys are doctors. You know them better. I, as a lawyer, don't want to get into your own fields. The discussion with the community and people who are experiencing the problem, however, says it makes no sense to start a treatment without the compass the reagent gives. I think I'm right. So this lack of reagents creates the great problem that this country shows us that it cannot catch the international standards that have been set by international organisations for the problem. I mean 90-90-90, three ninety. In other words, 90% of the seropositive patients have been diagnosed, 90% have been in this treatment and 90% have actually been healed, in that the load is zero. Here I see that the percentages are very divergent from the targets. But let go of the targets. We're supposed to catch them in 2020. I see it's from European standards too. The percentages, at least those given by the CEDEFOP, are much lower. The evidence I've just been talking about is 78-52-39. Only 39% of patients who do this right now can say that they are in undetectable viral load. We're low. So, having this data, we should have been faster. I understand that there are problems and I'm telling you that I'm not going back to discussing these problems, but why did you cancel the first competition? Now, do you not come to make an account and see that it was wrong a ready-to-be contest that would continue and secure these reagents - I'm talking about the 2012 competition - to get him back and right now to make moves that are ballasts and actually toss the can over so that you don't get the problem out of your way or break it down? What's the result? Everyone's dissatisfied. The seropositive community is dissatisfied, the scientific community with objections and concerns and society, listening to these issues, wonders and says: "The Ministry, the Government does not have the awareness to ensure that this case called HIV is a completely controlled and safe case for the rest of society and for the people themselves in such a way as to say that their quality of life is very high and there are no problems, as was the first time, for the quality of their lives?". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Only two comments, Mr President. So I listened to what you said and I would like to hear whether you would bring a national AIDS plan. There was until 2012. When will you bring it? We've got 2018, and we're just going for elections. Election doesn't make any sense. We should see what you're planning there. If there were the national strategic plan on AIDS, I really think that some of these issues would have been resolved. I see a totally epidermal and ad hoc problem-solving and not a design and strategic targeting. There are many issues for the part of the Special Infections Units, Minister. Here in our own tours and reports and contacts with hospitals we find shortcomings in staff. In fact, we cannot now - because we are talking to people, as everyone is talking about and you are talking, of course - to have this 30% of the first contact from the checkpoints that we have created and do not go ahead with the issues, because in the Infections Unit of this hospital - I do not now name the hospitals - the examinations are not progressing and there is no progress in delimiting the problem that each patient and every person has. So we should not know what and how much the dynamics and what do you intend to do on the subject? Is it minor? It is of major importance. One last thing for the Passion Register. We hear numbers differently from the ERIC or from the "Theoretical Voice" or from one or the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u26	Please finish, Mr. Economou. We've reached five, six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u27	I'm done. Should we not have a well-established and standard position about how many patients are, about how many have not entered into this cover offered by the state? So the Patients' Register must exist or not? Because other numbers are given by the patients, but they're giving the CDC. There's a contradiction. Everyone, you'll tell me, they're on their side. I don't know if there's a part of this. On these issues, we are waiting for concrete answers again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, before the Minister of Foreign Affairs takes the floor, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic Affairs and the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs tabled a draft law on 6-7-2018: "Decision of Protocol No 15 amending the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u29	I think I tried to explain that there was an objective difficulty and not obviously a lack of sensitivity or interest. The 2012 competition, which you invoke, was problematic, my dear colleague. That is why three years had not been ratified. This was managed by the new management of CEDEFOP in 2015 and decided unanimously by the Governing Council that no award could be made. There were serious legal issues. The procedure was therefore chosen to proceed to a new competition, an international competition. This process, unfortunately, is time-consuming. At some point they left this idea and chose the idea of the contract with the laboratories concerned, which was due to problems with the management of the PPE - because most of these laboratories are academics - it was delayed and we had to go to this temporary solution through the EEA Convention with certified private laboratories, which I think will get rid of. Our commitment was that in July this process will begin to come to an end to this debate. There are obviously problems with the operation of special units, special infection units in public hospitals. Difficulty overall exists in the health system. We are making an effort at this time with targeted reinforcement of hospitals and, in particular, of these sensitive sections, to ensure their sustainability and good functioning. We have - I said this before to my colleague - still some seven hundred and fifty places to be called. The four hundred fifty of them will concern primary, health centers, and the rest will go targeted at such sections that are related either to special infections or transplantation units, artificial kidney units, special and critical structures of the NSH that play a very important role in its quality function. I think that what is important and we will soon be able to present it is the national action plan for HIV in our country. A scientific working group has been set up. The image I have is that she completes her findings. He'll bring it to us. We will proceed with this, as we did a year ago with the corresponding hepatitis C action plan, which led to a successful negotiation of the EEAS with the companies, and we were able to cover five-fold patients from what was until then covered with modern hepatitis C virus medicines. We'll do the same for HIV. I think our aim is, in fact, the citizens of this country who have had the misfortune to come into contact with these viruses, causing a chronic disease, having access, being registered, having registry, having a patient register. There are records kept by the CEDEFOP. There are records kept by each unit of the ERC which monitors such patients. There will be an effort to unify and reorganise these registers. We will therefore have registers, we will have management protocols and we will have guaranteed access to modern antiretroviral medicines. That's well-established today. There are no access problems. I think that we are really making an investment in public health in our country, too. There's no sanitary bomb, my dear colleague. There was a peak in the disease - you remember it very well - and we had an explosion around 2011-2012. Specific measures were then taken. Since then, we have had a decline in infection. Of course, since then, we have had new cases diagnosed every year. But we do not have an epidemic exacerbation of the disease and virus in our country. It's a controlled situation. We have highly trained and trained scientific staff who are watching. CEDEFOP has very important expertise and let me say that the country and society are healthly safe and in this part, and I think that the effort we need to do is to improve the health system's response to these needs, which are very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u30	The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-09-S1-commons.u31	With the consent of the House at 18.55 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 10 July 2018 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
