ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Thursday 26 April 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1534/23-2018 topical question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The upgrading of the Centre for Animal Genetic Resources Carditsa". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1541/24-2018 topical question of the new Republic of Thessaloniki MP Mr. Stavros Kalafatis to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The position of Greece with regard to the formation of the EU's new Multiannual Financial Framework". 3. The 1551/24-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGOU to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Measures and actions to deal with water shortages - drought". 4. The 1529/19-4-2018 topical question by MP Pella of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ioannis Sahinides to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "They continue to remain unpaid". 5. The 1548-24-2018 topical question of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr. Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "For land displacement in Krypti Preveza". 6. The 1532/20-4-2018 topical question by H' Vice-President of Parliament and MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the debts to IKA. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 1526/194-2018 topical question by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, Potamios Spyridon Lykoudis, to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Illustration present historical buildings in the center of Athens". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1542/24-2018 topical question of the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mrs Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘A first known crisis in Greek sheep and goatmeat’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1549-24-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Without any staff of various critical and neuro-algal services of the Municipality of Ikaria". 3. The 1527/19-4-2018 topical question by MP 2 Athens of Potamio Mr. Georgios Amyras to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Except for bicycles our athletes at the OASA". 4. The 1530/20-4-2018 topical question by the Member of the Attica of the River Mr. Georgios Mavrotas to the Minister of Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: "Serious questions arise in connection with the tender of the 3K/2018 SAPA tender." 5. The 1531/20-4-2018 topical question by Independent MEP 2 of Athens Mr. Efstathiou (Stathia) Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Criminality and all kinds of attacks by sub-world and galantzi rebels". 6. Under No. 1495/16-2018, the timely question by MP Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The creation of three new toll stations on the road axis Promachos Serres - Port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for the Prefecture of Serres". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 1513/17-2018 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: “PROVET’s full-time workers”. 8. The question under number 1392/26-2018 of MP Grevenes of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Beyala to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: 'Reconstitution of the Chamber of Labour Inspectors' (SEPE)'. 9. The question asked by MP Grevenes of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Beyalas to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Security with bachelor's responsibility for operators - drivers of agricultural machinery". 10. The 1149/26-2-2018 topical question by MP 2 of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "About the para-state website, the unprecedented attack on the A.T. took place. Cesarean’. 11. The 1151/26-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on "Questions about the agent's case based on P. Kammenos's revelations". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 3478/13-2-2018 by Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament of the Greek Parliament, Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: “What is to come with the Theatrical Museum?” 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question and application under number 3719/207/22-2-2018 by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: ‘Prices from the course of application of Law No.4387/2016 (Katrugalou law)’. 3. The question by No 2464/10-1-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARKKKKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKI to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Let the funding for the diversion of the Platy River for the reinforcement of a Famous dam". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Structural measures for access to lignite and for the further opening up of the wholesale electricity market and other provisions". The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Konstantinos Vlasi, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u2	Excuse me, Mr. President. How's the talker line? They've been some of them since yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u3	It's two since yesterday and then we keep going. Mr. Vlassi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again in the same spectators' work: lies, promises, taxi and, of course, fraudulent ones. And as one of your colleagues said yesterday on a well-known television channel: "Yes, PPC's bill was a delusion for us." At the same time, the people are getting poor every day more and more. We see EUROSTAT. From 14% in 2014 the percentage of poor people who do not have access to the public health system has gone to 40%. And that's what a doctor tells you. 21% of Greeks cannot meet the basic needs. Over two million are the poor. Somehow this explains, as I said, Minister, and in committee, because perhaps the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, was so afraid when he came to the capital of my prefecture, in Tripoli, and he was surrounded by MAT bells. This has never happened in my own place before. So many Prime Ministers have passed. No one was afraid. The first was Mr. Tsipras. And I come and reckon: If he came to talk to Megalopolis now, with this bill he brought, what would have happened? Would he have picked up all the MAT cages from all over Greece? So you are bringing today not a bill - a solution, but a bill - resignation. You get used to everything to keep your chairs. You fought without tomorrow the solution of the "small" PPC of the New Democracy and Antonis of Samaras to sell the "big" PPC today. May I remind you what Mr. Tsipras said? ‘National crime to be prevented. We are facing the completion of a premeditated crime against the country. Let's put it right in their minds. SYRIZA is not going to compromise with the idea that PPC will be sold out. Only the Greek people have the power to make such a decision. If they have the guts, let them be brought into the light of the day.’ And, of course, you bring the bill in the form of an emergency, because they obviously do not want many voices to be heard. Of course, I will not remind you again of what he said about investors: "Those investors will come to gain by buying pieces of Greek property, they will also lose their money and be found accountable for justice." The "small" PPC, to inform you, Minister, in addition to all others for my county, did not include the sale of lignite plants in Megalopolis, and it should be borne in mind that the whole area is united, with few exceptions. In his honor, the Mayor of Megalopolis came here the day before yesterday and spoke. All operators, trade associations and even former voters, not ours, who come out and say it openly: "We put our hands and took our eyes off." Everyone was with the MPs. And I do not hide you from the fact that we, too, envy the Regional Governor of Western Macedonia, who has not been afraid, has not been hidden, and even though he was supported by you, he has come and expressed his opposition to this bill, unlike others who have been hidden. But you know that we're all judged for what we're saying and for what we're not talking about, whether we're getting in front of it and when we're hiding. The "small" PPC, therefore, would generate revenues of 1.5 to 2 billion, instead of less than a third anticipating the current government's plan, a reduction in lending, 1 billion in investment for the new unit of Meliti and new jobs. It would also solve the problem of the dominant position in marketing, which PPC currently has and which you do not solve. And this draft law is what he's doing? It sells PPC's "silver", sells out the "fillets" and, at the same time, does not make PPC sustainable, because it loads everything, all the evils of PPC, to the one that stays. It does not solve the competition problem, since it does not sell a client list and maintains the obligation to reduce the company's turnover by 40%, thereby violating competition principles. It sells without valuation the most profitable and productive lignite plants of PPC, the plants with the lowest operating costs. You are premiumd to private buyers after you reduce the staff of the units and load credit contracts accompanying PPC. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. And you also hide, of course, a serious problem with hydroelectric power, which has been discussed with the institutions and proposed that the NOMEs continue to be sold after the sale of lignite plants, which will also be based on hydroelectric power, which will undoubtedly damage PPC. It does not guarantee the future of the workers, nor of those who will be transferred to the companies, nor of those who live in PPC, the public, and it does not, of course, clarify the status of working relations, since you are also deliberately blocked. Although the collective agreement of 27 February has expired, you do nothing. Of course, there is no provision for the development of the areas, and not only will there be a reduction in PPC's electricity tariffs, but a price increase is envisaged. So do you feel proud that during the three years you have done nothing about PPC? With his tactics 'I do not pay' and waiting for a magical solution, the outstanding debts were deported from 1 billion to 3 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u5	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u6	I shall conclude, Mr President. PPC's stock market value was demolished by 80%, from EUR 2.5 billion in 2014 to EUR 0.6 billion. Today. You reached it on the edge of the cliff and, insisting on your ideological knuckles, you are now willing to give it the gift shot.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Vlassi, please, complete!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u8	Minister, your medal and arrogance are evident everywhere. But the New Democracy responds with a concrete and structured plan of hope and development, not only for PPC, but also for the country. And this is our real commitment, not like your commitments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Vlassi, please, complete! You've reached seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u10	I shall conclude, Mr President. You understand the emotional nature of my speech, because we come from a county, which the government is plucking away everything. Seferis, Minister, said something that you may not know: "Since a part of the past is like extinguishing a part of the future." And that's exactly what you're doing. Elevate Thermopylae, which you always hand over a chariot, dynamizing the future of our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Mr. Mumulides, MP of SYRIZA, has the floor. I would ask you to speak for five minutes from the Rules of Procedure. There's always one understanding, but not seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, give me some time!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u13	The Rules of Procedure provide for that, Mr Constantinople. I'm not saying it. We're giving extra time for a minute. How much should we give?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u14	Give it seven minutes. There are not so many speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u15	It's not seven minutes. Five minutes is normal. There are several speakers. Parliamentary representatives haven't spoken yet. Please, Mr Mumulides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Let me clarify that in yesterday's sitting there was a tolerance, there was a dialogue. In addition, some Members also represent affected areas. I personally belong to one of these regions, so I would like your understanding, without abuse of your kindness.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Mumulides, for what you have said so far, there is no time left. You start now for five minutes, with tolerance for one minute. But do not exceed time. That's what I'm saying. I am not saying this for you, I say it for all the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u18	Let me start with one comment. I have been watching since Thursday, the day the bill was tabled, the reactions of Members of all the parties and since Monday I systematically monitor participation in committees and in plenary since yesterday. I am sorry to see that such an important issue of national importance was considered to be a matter of some areas. I represent the area of Kosani, which, in theory, most of it could be said is not affected by developments in PPC. However, this does not mean that I cannot be in solidarity with the colleagues of Florina, Arcadia and Megalopolis in particular. And it is good that the National Representation also acquires this sense of solidarity and not just exhaust ourselves in communal slogans and interviews with cries of agony and crocodile tears in the media. Under normal conditions, then, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law should come at least together with the compensatory development proposal for areas where mining activity is recorded. Because everything today would have been very different if a parallel development plan for these regions had been submitted for decades, a parallel project with PPC's activity. And that, unfortunately, does not exist. We should be very honest, Minister. These regions, because of their economy, are not ready to absorb vibrations from the possible consequences of an accident following the adoption of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, in modern Europe, the post-German era begins with the first mining activity, i.e. with the beginning of mining activity, the planning of the next day, the restoration of the environment and soil begins. In our country we have been discussing in recent years when the post-linguistic era is beginning, unfortunately, which has probably come and I hope it will not pass as a lost spring for the areas we are talking about. And those who in recent years have been talking about the next day, namely the creation of a development plan for the region and a smooth transition from the lignite age to the post-lining era, were considered enemies of lignite, enemies of PPC, enemies of the workers at PPC and others that we have heard. Because for decades we have allowed an energy colossus to operate without a parallel sustainable development plan. Thus, while almost ten years ago western Macedonia has been recording from the highest average per capita income - due to PPC, apparently - the same region records the highest national unemployment rates. It would be natural to discuss and create for years the next day and the development of mining areas. Instead, we have accepted the monoculture of lignite as a political choice for all the previous governments. PPC has been in a difficult financial position for years, since for many years it has been co-administered over all of its governments and administrations by all kinds of interests and factors in the regions, as there has been for decades the regulator of political life and the development of the areas to which the bill refers. Ladies and gentlemen, the areas where PPC's lignite plants are sold to private parties are not only at risk of changing the share of private individuals in the energy capital of the country, but are mainly at risk from the lack of a parallel with PPC's development plan for these regions. This also creates, Mr Minister, the need for urgent debate and legislation within an important development project. At the same time, it goes without saying that this national colossus, PPC, should be helped, step on its feet, testify to its own business plan and development business plan. PPC is going through a new era, which is a challenge for the business, and it must be ready to face the new reality. It must develop into a fully competitive, dynamic public undertaking, develop new activities in these areas, such as, for example, what has already been announced by its administration, its intention to operate a smart cash factory. PPC must defend a fair new collective labour contract with workers, which society must welcome, free from complexes of social automation. However, PPC must also be exempted from any other concept of co-administration and weights. It must create new jobs for young people and especially young scientists. And, therefore, it has an obligation to retire directly to people who have completed their pension rights for years. At this point - so that I am not unfair - I would like to welcome the changes announced by the Minister yesterday. I believe that there are important changes, particularly in the work part. We must say here that, as SYRIZA, we will fully defend the capital of labour interests in the field of district heating and resource management. Mr Minister, in conclusion, at the very short time available to Members, since plenary is a matter of more than just the Members of Parliament and the Ministers, I call on you to open the debate on the restoration, recovery and relocation of territories to the development prospects of western Macedonia and, where else, through the creation of mixed economic plans, with the possible involvement of PPC and local societies. For us the Western Members of Parliament, it is important that we discuss immediately and urgently the next day, the viability of our regions and, unfortunately, regardless of the outcome of today's bill, time is suffocating suffocating. Minister, this government must not be involved in the delay in depositing a substantial development plan to reform the region's productive model. As strong as PPC becomes again - which we wish and will defend - it is impossible for the region of Western Macedonia to recover financially without dynamic development proposals. It will not be able to recover if the future of the region is not a central government option. So we are waiting for your next moves and thank you. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u19	Mrs Triantafyllou, Member of the SYRIZA. I would also ask you, my fellow Member, to keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. The bill is undoubtedly important, because PPC is very important. Of course, PPC has huge problems, but it also has enormous value. It has a network that is not being re-established, with large infrastructure in lignite mines and production, transmission and distribution of electricity. It is therefore very important for the energy planning and the productive reconstruction of the country. There is one criticism, the most famous critic of the Opposition. I will insist on the criticism of the New Democracy and PASOK of incompetence, sale, falsehood and fear that the Prime Minister is afraid to see the world. So let us mention a small history of PPC, let us look at this criticism. Indeed, all these years PPC fought and achieved energy autonomy and electricity reached every corner of Greece. This is very important. However, there was an increasing activity of the contractors in PPC's projects in 1999, as well as the relocation of PPC and the liberalisation of domestic agricultural electricity. Then it was the PASOK government - as I think - and Evangelos Venizelos was the Minister responsible. Following the liberalisation of the domestic market in 2001, PPC becomes an anonymous company. The Greek state keeps 51% and 40% is relocated. All I say is to see why you're crying today, because you're really angry today. Then comes the abolition of exclusive production rights, etc. The opposition agrees - especially the Left - that the workers are also agreed. After all this comes the planning of the Samara government - and they are all known - for divestment of the "little" PPC. Others said it, I don't have to say it. So when Mr Stathakis, who was responsible for PPC yesterday, tried to give a picture of PPC and, in particular, for the last few years, spoke of over-finance and made a little mention of PPC's current image in relation to the Stock Exchange, criticism was how much it is possible to talk about PPC's current image by showing that it is better with arguments such as, for example, how it is on the Stock Exchange, what is wrong with 44% of PPC and how much it has reached its capitalisation. I think it's about 680m euros. So when they try to give a better picture of PPC today and say that collection is better, the argument is - I think the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy has said so - how it is possible to be SYRIZA or left and invoke the Stock Exchange. In fact, that's a great argument and it's in a argument that says how much the lie has penetrated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u21	The neo-democratics are jealous of you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Constantinople, you'll talk later. I think it's the distinctive argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u23	They're jealous of you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u24	So that's a terrible argument: they're jealous of us. I'll keep that, too. Of course, it is a problem not how much SYRIZA is Mr Stathakis or the other SYRIZA Members, the other ministers. The problem is, SYRIZA's in the government. That's the big problem, and I think that's a big problem for you. But you'll do well to accept it and accept it either well or badly, because that's the way it is, and that's how it's going to stay. Today, however, I think that, if we go to the bill, we are called upon to see the current conditions, namely a global shift in renewable energy sources. When we were talking about energy communities and the bill on energy communities, I think we had said that there is this transition from conventional forms of energy to the RES. This does not really happen in a way - in our view, at least - in the public interest or in the interests of the people. There are always specific economic interests that are hidden, as in all. It is an issue to see how we can use lignite burning today, since we have or will remain with some lignite plants. Europe has made its decisions, but I think we should look at it as a reserve in critical times. To conclude, - not to exceed my time too - it is important that this government supported PPC and prevented it from being discharged at an opportunity price. The procedure for adapting to a specific judgment of the Court of Justice, whether or not you agree, is another matter. It should also be said that this government has paid the YTO, the services of general interest, about EUR 500 million, canceled the plan for "little" PPC, which included the sale of hydroelectricity as well as the privatisation of IPTO. The fact that 50% of PPC remains in public control shows its will and is a response to the devastating criticism of the New Democracy. I think that the bet of the next period and of our country is the shift towards renewable energy sources. We need to find the way, we need to see how we can - if we can - some things to put on our side, and national planning should be based on this, and here I think PPC will be invited to take the lead in this area if it really wants to have a company next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u25	Thank you. We proceed with the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Manolakos. Please, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u26	A bill with concise procedures, which is part of the liberalisation of the electricity market, is of course limited to discussing time to hear less about the negative effects and reduce the popular reactions, after redundancies are made - which you call them voluntary exits - thousands of jobs will be lost, workers made redundant with flexible working relationships and the working conditions will worsen for those remaining, with wage reductions, an evaluation of staff with a view to terrorisation and so on. We have also seen them in the port of Piraeus with 'COSCO'. It will make it even more difficult to access thousands of people's households in electricity. The reduction of the beneficiaries of the social invoice gave a first taste, but also the price of the kilowatt was launched in the last decade by 147% of the imposition of taxes and charges to boost the RES. There has also been experience since the privatisation which you have been privatizing since the mid-90s has been the result of workers in the sector as a whole, the working class and the popular strata. Of course, the government is in a hurry, and it wants to prevent the deadline for the fourth assessment along with other harsh anti-grassroots measures. All of this is a continuation of the "little" PPC, which was promoted by the previous New Democracy - PASOK government, under the European Union's energy liberation regulation, in order to invest ponds and continue their profitability by capitalists. This is what European Union policy and yours ensures. It pisses workers and populace mattresses. Moreover, this new step is imposed by the European Union-capital strategy and is a follow-up to the laws adopted by all the previous governments. Ensuring conditions of competition in the liberalised electricity market requires the granting of lignite power to PPC's competitors, i.e. privatisation. That's why liberation and sale of lignite plants go packet. At the same time, it also runs the implementation of the planning to limit lignite to production and to support the profitability of monopolistic groups in other forms, which gives them more profit. Already their workers and families live in their minds the dissolution of labour relations, the reductions in wages, the intensification of work and the increase in accidents at work, the dismantling of settlements where the mines are expanding without any design of a complete relocation with the necessary infrastructure. It's too expensive for the people and cheap for the big capitalist businesses! It is therefore confirmed that the energy planning of all governments is not based on the people's labour needs, but on the profits of monopolies. You can justify this with certain pretexts, such as the fact that we are in favour of healthy PPC, a fair liberation that will not affect workers in businesses and the people. You're kidding. The consequences will be heavy. Here too, there is the need for the workers as a whole and the people to resist the plans for further privatisation of PPC, by hitting at their core the commercialisation of electricity, the European Union's ruling-class policy for liberation, the incentive of profit to production, the capitalist property that produces them. At the same time business groups and large players are preparing to enter the next period, gain access to the "fillet" of PPC hydroelectric plants and deny it. It is certain that working class, self-employed, small EEE and small and medium-sized farms will pay the price of promoting further liberalisation. That is why they have every interest in signing up to the JRC's proposal as the only way out that really serves the interests of the people's populations, to create a single state energy institution with social property and labour control, ensuring jobs with full employment and insurance rights, cheap current for the labour-intensive households, energy security for the country, making full use of domestic energy sources. Because we consider the energy of social good, to which every man should have access, not merchandise to win by the capitalist. And, finally, we welcome workers' mobilisations and call on the people to stand up to this criminal policy of liberating energy, but also to stand up to anti-French policy as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u27	Thank you. Mr. Maniotis, have you asked for the floor? You want to talk now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u28	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u29	Mr Maniatis, Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is an ideal opportunity to discuss the two different worlds that exist between us today. One is the world of progress, investment, the creation of new jobs, the world that gives hope, optimism and perspective to Greece, the world that creates the prerequisites for the geopolitical upgrading of the country. It is the world that gives the Greek citizen the opportunity to believe that Greece can. And there's the other world, the SYRIZA world, the world we're talking about today. The world of deception, lying, demagogicism, populism, the world of the rape of justice with para-stated ensembles, the world that has not hesitated to endure all the public property for a hundred years is enough: to stay in power until the last minute, to satisfy all that is proud of them at the expense of the Greek people. Our world, fellow Members and colleagues, the world of progressive forces, is the world of the democratic party, which proposes that in the next five years in the energy sector 50 billion euros be invested, it is the world that is going to create hundreds of thousands of new jobs, the world that again gives hope and perspective to the new children of the country, who are taking back measures against the middle-class, to the detriment of farmers, to the detriment of retired people, which gives hope and perspective to the Greek society. Our world is the world of progressive patriotism, the world that enables Greece to upgrade geopolitically. And because it is certain that you will want to distort even the reality that we lived for a few years ago, listen: Investments from the gas pipelines that you fought against, voted against and put the whole SYRIZA world across local communities across the street is 10 billion euros. The TAP pipeline that ends shortly has found you across, the largest energy project in Southeast Europe. The Greek-Bulgarian pipeline, which enables Greece to finally become a supply hub of Southeast Europe. The East-Med pipeline, which, after cooperation with Cyprus and Israel, will first be carried to the history of the country's natural gas from the south-eastern Mediterranean through Crete - the Peloponnese in Italy. This is our world, the world that gives Greece the opportunity to negotiate with partners, not begging like Mr. Tsipras for seventeen hours "do something so that I don't fall from power", but the world that enables Greece to have a powerful negotiating weapon, the weapon that tells partners that we are now the energy security of your own economies. And you were against all this. Our world is the world that took action, found money, studied, proclaimed and proceeded with the electrical interconnection of the Cyclades, which you delayed two years and the Greek people were charged with another EUR 150 million because of your inability, paying additional services of general interest. You were across even when we signed the environmental study of the electrical interconnection of the Cyclades. And we lived through it, and we put the signature on it. We had you across the street. Our world is the world that, based on the finding of the World Energy Organisation a few months ago, said that in renewable energy sources Greece is achieving the goals, even though we were living in seasons of memoranda. And Greece achieves these goals, and in renewable energy we can have investments of more than EUR 3 billion over the next period. Our world is the world that proposes investment of EUR 2 billion, with particular emphasis on the agricultural sector, with a 60% reduction in the cost of producing agricultural products with the application of renewable sources. In the summer of 2014, we legislated the energy offset - and you voted against it! - a possibility for the Greek farmer and the small and medium-sized one to install his own unit and not depend either on PPC or on the private provider. Our world is the world of 5 billion euros for smart networks, smart cities and the implementation of the fourth industrial revolution on energy democracy. And you've done nothing. You received the competition for smart meters, 80 million euros. It has been declared since mid-2014 and has been dragged for three and a half years. You haven't done anything for three and a half years for the seventy thousand families who will put smart meters. While we handed you the contest, we handed you the money, handed you the specifications, for three and a half years you could not do anything, even on this subject. Our world is the world that provides for 10 billion euros in energy savings. A project, "Enhancement by House", which you received with evaluation as the second best in Europe - EUR 400 million, investment, with forty thousand houses being upgraded, with an average annual amount of EUR 500 per year for the Greek household, mainly in northern Greece and mountainous regions, to save energy expenditure - a programme that created up to EUR 1 million for forty new jobs, a programme that we have proposed "take it up", for three and a half years you have announced thirteen times. And just a few weeks ago you started implementing it, wrong again, lame, incompetent again, because you couldn't open for all of Greece and started breaking Greece by regions. We have proposed to you for the program "I save by house", with a specific study, "to give tax incentives now, that people raise their money from mattresses. They are estimated at around EUR 20 billion." The then Deputy Minister of Finance, when we submitted to him the proposal for tax incentives for energy savings in people's homes, said "so much a good idea, see how we can implement it". It's been three years and sleep. It is a prospect that is given to re-enter the world of construction, the world of construction, and for the first time in Greece's history, this breath and the prospect of doing so in a proactive way, in a green, sustainable way, to upgrade the eight million houses, apartments and buildings that Greece has, a Greece that is the most wasteful country in the world. And while we tell you, while we recommend it, you do nothing. We had proposed 1.5 billion to join the Juncker package, energy savings. You pulled it back. Three and a half years you haven't submitted any proposals to Juncker. In the first year of operation of this package, France raised fifty thousand homes. You guys don't! How's this being evaluated now? Our world is the 20 billion-dollar world for hydrocarbons research. A Greece that can become a proud country, together with Cyprus, will tell the rest of Europe that a new pillar of energy security in Europe is being created, that is our world. The world of national pride, national self-confidence, progressive patriotism, normal, sincere European turn, Greece's investment and jobs. And let's come to your world now. It's the world described in the bill you've testified to us, the world of demagoguery, of ideology, of lying, of perversion of truth. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, why are you going to your villages to defend the legislation you are voting on today? What was "little" PPC? Because, unfortunately, for you, there is now balances to weigh what we have done and what you have done. The "small" PPC received 30% of the production potential, 30% of the loans, 30% of the customers, 30% of the wage costs, 30% of the entire PPC and took it out in an international competition. Why? But, in order to do what I imagine no reasonable person disagrees that must be done. The liberalisation of the energy market makes sense on one condition: that liberalisation will help the household and business to have cheaper electricity. Otherwise it makes no sense to release. And we did it. Because this must be the strategic goal of market liberalisation: cheaper services, safe services, adequate services for the economy and the citizen. What did we do with this package? We did this package what the centre-left Masmo D'Alema did in Italy. Because now you also knock at the door of social democracy, let's do something, but there's nothing going to be done, because you're abstaining from going through the door of social democracy. The same problem that PPC had with it was with ENEL in Italy with the first former communist and now centralised Prime Minister, Massimo D'Alema. He took 30% of ENEL and did the same thing. And within seven years, ENEL quadrupled its turnover and went abroad as well. And the company that was created began to compete with ENEL’s tariffs. That's our package. This is the largest administrative reform carried out at company level. And we are proud to have made this intervention. As Minister, I signed my signature, I handled this bill. I wonder, Minister, when Mr. Tsipras told me and told us - throughout the then-government majority - that we would answer to justice did you mean that? Will you send us to a special court? Because Mr. Tsipras said he'd send us to a special court. When you compare what you are doing, I wonder if it was opposition, what Mr Tsipras would say. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Give me some time, Mr President. I'll be done in a little while. Here's what you, colleagues and colleagues are doing. Take 50% of PPC's customers and sign with zero in return to be given to competitors. I would remind you that the 'little' PPC would bring EUR 6 billion to the country. Two billion in PPC’s funds and the remaining 4 billion in investments that were mandatory by law. What are you doing? 50% of customers, i.e. 50% of turnover, that is to say 50% of revenue, give it in exchange for zero. And PPC keeps the same loans it has. PPC keeps the same wage costs. And PPC, unfortunately, retains the same obligations. Is that enough? No, it's not good enough for you. You want to make it even worse. You bring today's bill, which actually unravels without a minimum price of three lignite units and a license. Have you guys seen this before, SYRIZA colleagues? Will you sign for the sale of three factories and an empty without a minimum price? And you're going to your villages while you know very well that there is, for example, the accounting value of the factories? Will you tolerate it? And will you be voting to sell the factories no matter what the private offers? But that's not good enough for you either. You committed another crime. I would remind you that a few months ago in November - December 2017 when you voted for your budget, the 2018 budget, you put in a position that 17% of PPC will be sold for 100 million euros. Listen to get to know and to understand the citizens: Today, the Greek public belongs 51% of PPC and this is our achievement. What are you doing? 50% of the profits are thrown into competition. Three factories give them no lower price and 17% will sell it in 2018, compared with 180 million euros, [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Tell us how you manage to stand against the history of the Left, against your personal conscience and against the citizens who have sent you to this Parliament. Mr Minister, as you can see, we will vote against both hands the operational, institutional and development abstention you have presented to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u31	Please, Mr. Papaliou from SYRIZA has the floor. Here, Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall try to speak with realism and soberness in this bill and, in particular, in the sale of lignite units III and IV and the mine of PPC Megalopolis. SYRIZA did not consent, politically opposed the conduct of the Government of New Democracy - PASOK to privatise and shrink PPC through the design of "little" PPC. One cannot overlook that there is a strong justification for the country's obligation to limit lignite production. In addition, it is a given commitment to comply with the well-known judgment of the European Court of Justice for access to the specific fossil fuel. There is no doubt that this legislation provides for a reduction in PPC's lignite plants. However, hydroelectric plants producing clean energy, which are not subject to power-generating restrictions, are rescued and which were to be assigned to private individuals by the project. The transfer is known to have been prevented by the SYRIZA Government in 2015. Even after the sale of these lignite plants, PPC remains the main energy pillar of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that the sale of the megapolis lignite plants was not included in the government's original planning. The question is why, in the end, they have remained unanswered and yet the answers that have been given so far have not been convinced. And this deficit, this gap, is burdening the already heavy climate in the Arcadia Prefecture. The sale of the lignite plants of the Megalopolis PPC is undoubtedly a negative development. The impact on the economic and social life of a wider region which has provided energy supplies and policies in the country and which has suffered a huge environmental burden has not been taken into account. They've been abandoned all over the place. And for villages that have today been expropriated, no relocation decision is made. I am referring to the well-known theme of the Tripotamos, Minister, although there is a possibility, a concrete proposal has been put forward and a government commitment has been made. Minister, we expect this problem to be resolved now. Arcadia is one of the most disadvantaged areas in the country, for which PPC Megalopolis is the main core of employment and economy. GDP appears high precisely because of PPC's presence. This region cannot withstand further unemployment and economic difficulties without serious consequences for the social fabric, with what this implies because it will effectively remove the social element by which PPC enriched the wider region by the construction and financing of projects and the implementation of projects. It will, perhaps not immediately, be abolished, but in the medium to long term, by increasing unemployment. It will reduce the income of residents and reduce the income of the wider region. The sale of lignite plants and the mine of PPC Megalopolis is a major issue for both the region and its people. Ladies and gentlemen, the change in the country's development model is an undeniable necessity. In this context there must be national energy policy and planning, although the Community's institutional framework for electricity production is specific. There is no doubt that, behind this institutional framework, great interests are being concealed and conflicted. Despite the fact that this bill attempts to provide for the employees of PPC's units involved in the sale, this is not complete and complete. This means that more and more moves will be needed, such as ensuring, beyond the duration and working conditions of those that will be absorbed by the new company, the establishment of the identification criterion for new recruitments, the return and restoration of the territories - in my view, an explicit reference is needed and provision is made in the bill - that the'special fee for the investigation and exploitation of lignite', which must be increased even further, but also in the municipality - not only in the region - but also in the region, so that resources do not go 'at the marriage of Karaggiozis', as was done with the lignite. However, equivalent development measures should be taken for the areas covered by the sale of lignite plants. I have tried to raise and develop issues with realism and sobriety, although there is - you understand - and emotional burden. For our county, my wider special home, the sale of the lignite plants of PPC is a blow. In fact, without seeking, taking and supporting other development options, equivalent economic measures, things will become even more difficult. It is therefore necessary to provide for and establish development equivalents for Megalopolis, the wider region and Arcadia. In fact, given the depletion of lignite - as an energy resource - and the European Commission's well-known decision to reduce it to the energy mix, the period closest to it must be the subject of consultation with the local society in order to decide on the direction of productive reconstruction in the region, since its dependence on lignite will cease. The development equivalents, Mr Minister, must be included in the draft development strategy that is being promoted so that Megalopolis, the wider region and the Arcadia prefecture have a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u33	The President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I feel obliged, although I would not like to start with a comment on a very serious issue that has arisen over the last few days. As this is a sensitive issue, I will be extremely vivid in my wording. I am, of course, talking about the french french fiasco, which led you today to the paradox, the Minister of National Defence, to organise a special press conference - take care - of things that should not be discussed in public and that the Minister should try to'strengthen' what the Deputy Prime Minister has said, which he has disproved, but to which the Deputy Minister insists. To say things by their name, they are unprecedented about such a sensitive subject, other things to say, Mr. Tsipras, but Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Kouvelis. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And, of course, I cannot imagine that the Prime Minister in his conversation with Mr McCron was once again lost in the translation. I have seen an interesting cartoon today that says that the freshmen are not rented at Airbnb! It would be funny if it were not tragic, ladies and gentlemen. In short, the government, the Prime Minister and the relevant ministers should understand that foreign policy and defence policy are not available for games, because this is unfortunately what our fellow citizens have been following in recent days. They are watching the country's national prestige threatened by your insufficiency and by your amateurism, and this predicament, with fresh cats, even manifested in times of high intensity with our neighbours. Finally, understand, ladies and gentlemen, that what you are doing to us internationally, that you are finally testing our relations with the allies and, of course, you are also hurting the internal sense of security. While you are still in the government, at least show very seriousness in national matters and I sincerely hope that I do not have to go back to this issue, at least not in public. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the issue of the bill. With this bill, the government comes in urgent terms to divest three lignite units and a PPC licence. It has been doing so by means of its agreement with lenders and, of course, by the well-known and discounted judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, which no longer allows for the use of lignite monopolistics, an issue that, as you know, has been employing the country since 2008. It attempts to do so, without having any plans for the country's energy map, something that SYRIZA Members have also confessed, at least from the areas of Arcadia and Kozani that I have heard from their speeches. You are doing so without any substantial programme for the transition to a time of minimal carbon dioxide emissions. You do this without having a fundamental vision of a low energy footprint in the daily activity of citizens and businesses. Unfortunately, this government is not in a position to exploit the geographical specificities of Greece and the great comparative advantages offered to it by renewable sources. And it is certainly unable to plan, as the previous government had started to do, a new era with citizens of energy producers in every house, with means of transport fuelled mainly by renewable energy sources. That's why he does the only thing he knows: to lie again. It deceives the citizens by closing the eye on potential lignite buyers. Why does he promise these buyers? It promises profits, but without prejudice to the catastrophic damage it will cause PPC and the high electricity price eventually to impose once again on businesses and households. In simple terms, once again the government charges society and harms the country. For the bill we are debating today, I would like the Greek citizens to know two things. The government drives electricity prices to an increase, makes it conscious of its own choice and at the same time undermines the future of PPC, leads it a step ahead of bankruptcy. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is the government's identity. In the name of the name "Tsipras-Kamamenos", the characteristics of "fake, populism, occultism" and in its photograph has your own faces, the faces of all the Members who will be invited to vote against the exact opposite of what they said when they were in opposition. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But, of course, you've probably been immune to this. After all, you do it very often. But allow me, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to refresh your memory. In 2014, the then opposition of SYRIZA won, probably won, the Samara government's plan for "little" PPC. He was talking about alleged national crime, while this project led at least to a large PPC with 70% of the market. Let's just remember what Mr. Tsipras said. SYRIZA President's speech. Where is it? During his visit to the steam station and the Amynteio mine. So he said Mr. Tsipras: "We believe that the divestment-sale plan of the strategic company for the Greek economy and the ultimate energy self-sufficiency business of the country, such as PPC, is a national crime that needs to be prevented. As far as we are concerned..." - as far as you are concerned - "... there is no way we can reconcile the idea that PPC will be sold out. PPC... - notice - "... will remain public and single business on behalf of the Greek people and Greek society alone". [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the Minutes the above address, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, hold a copy of the speech, see exactly what you and all SYRIZA Members were saying in 2014. Then you, your local players, the local regional director, who was elected flagrantly to the PPC issue, raised the people in referendums to overturn the sale. It was when Mr. Kammenos - I think Mr. Maniotis reminded us - asked rhetorically about the Step of the House who would stay out of prison when justice decided for those who decided on PPC. And today, what exactly do you do with the bill you bring to the National Representation? You're divesting PPC units. Not random units, the most profitable and the most competitive. In other words, they have the lowest variable operating costs. You divest without credit charges, loans to PPC. You're divesting them with less staff, the excess staff at PPC. And dive them, after you have previously condemned, ladies and gentlemen of Arcadia, by 40%, the most modern gas-fired power plant in Megalopolis. You are doing this for good reasons, in order to benefit, unambiguously, from our point of view, the units sold and where the private buyer will buy them. And it is not only enough that you divest lignite units on these unacceptable conditions, but at the same time load the loans and overstaff to the remaining PPC. All of this at the same time that PPC - take care - will remain with less competitive production units, but also with the obligation, which you agreed, to reduce its market share to 50%. That's the truth, and we have to say things with their name, so that all Greeks understand them. You sell the lignite plants - I won't say you're selling, that's your terminology - but at the same time you lose PPC. And the only weapon that will be available to PPC, to resist and survive, is tariffs. And all Greeks should know that less competitive PPC means eventually increasing electricity tariffs. Exact current for households and businesses. If I had to describe you with one sentence, I would just say: liars and populists then, ruthless and demagogers now, imprudent and always inadequate! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] A serious government would set three central targets for a responsible strategy in the electricity sector: Firstly, complete liberalisation of the energy market with a strong, but independent regulatory authority. Secondly, create an attractive environment for attracting significant investments in energy infrastructure, low-tech plants, renewable energy sources, with a view to sustainable, gradual decommissioning of lignite. I will come back to this later. And thirdly, of course, a reduction in electricity prices for households and businesses. However, you have no strategic plan and your inadequacy in this area is a peculiar one. You are attempting the mutilation of PPC under pressure to close as - such as the fourth evaluation of the third Memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos. In this way and PPC you are destroying and you are not creating genuine and sustainable competition for the benefit of the final consumer. And I wonder how safe they feel today when the PPC workers hear us? Not the ones who will be moved to the units that will be sold. PPC, I remind you, employs all of it, along with contractors who have a direct relationship with PPC, close to twenty-three thousand employees. And PPC has invested many billions of Greek taxpayers since 1950. From the first moment you took the lead, however, you led PPC to an unprecedented decommissioning. By fulfilling the policy of "I do not pay" by Mr. Tsipras, PPC's outstanding debts were launched from EUR 1 billion in 2014 to EUR 3 billion today. Its stock market value was demolished by 80%, from 2.5 billion to 0.6 billion. The dues are being launched, Minister, and the stock exchange value is being smashed. These are your achievements for the largest Greek business! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And since you didn't accept and fight our plan for "little" PPC, what did you do? You agreed, too, on the NOME project. Without getting into technical terms, what have the NOME to do? It was forced to sell electricity to private suppliers, at prices below its cost of production. And no one to date, nor you, Minister, has described how the operation will survive in the future. You know very well that it has significant repayments of loans in 2019. What's your plan to save PPC? Not just to be competitive, but to be saved. He's at risk of collapse. So instead of apologizing and presenting a structured plan, you continue to lie. You say and you pride yourself that you exempted from the sales package hydroelectric units and gas units. Here we are to see in a few months what response there will be to lignite plants and to what price, of course. How much money would PPC get from selling "little" PPC, Minister? It would take 2 billion more and four billion more investments that the company was committed to. So let's see what you collect on behalf of the company and the Greek State from the sales of the three lignite plants. And it wasn't just the PPC example of your nonexistent energy policy. Let me remind you of the work of breathing the interconnection of Cyclades with mainland Greece, which for the first time provided a supply of the islands of Syros, Paros, Tinos, Mykonos and Naxos with electricity. You fought this project. You did not even vote for the adoption of environmental conditions on our own days. And you have finally damaged consumers with an additional EUR 150 million. But you cut the ribbon. In this you are first to cut ribbons into works designed by others and made by others when you slandered them. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you forgot to say that this work was done with Community funds. You diligently hid it. Of course you did the same in the TAP pipeline. And TAP you fought. On construction sites, however, you rushed to photography. What can I tell you about the "Economie Settlement" programme? How many times have you been exposed announcing the launch of the programme for three years? Thirteen times, fourteen times? We've lost count. Three years waited for you more than forty thousand households, who want to upgrade their homes energy, to reduce the cost of energy they have to pay for either heating or cooling. Three years waited for thousands of professionals in the building sector to undertake energy upgrading work. And when you finally opened the platform, the situation was sad. The information system is down, you've damaged thousands of engineers. You also reduced the associated budget, of course. From 450 million, you took it to 250 million. You didn't even have an electronic platform ready to manage. You've done nothing to get resources from the Younger Package for energy savings. Why did France take 1.5 billion and put in 50 000 homes in this programme with additional European funds and leverage and with private sector involvement? For you all these are fine letters. Let me also remind you of what you have done at the top of the matter of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. At a time when these procedures are progressing rapidly in our neighbourhood, your Government is very responsible for the fact that it has delayed the signing and ratification of the subsequent concession agreements for three years. You were across - not forgetting them - all the three conventions we brought for ratification in the summer of 2014. You have blamed us and then that we are selling out national wealth. And in that case you have undermined a great national effort. It took you three years - and since you have, in the meantime, changed three Energy Ministers - to copy our work and to bring as you supposedly did your work to the Greek Parliament the ratification. And, of course, you are proud that you have negotiated better the sale of IPTO. Yes, sir! PPC lost 100% of the shares of its largest asset. And through an extremely complex relocation plan, it eventually received just 300 million, when the total value was estimated at more than 1.2 billion. Mr Tsipras, we sincerely tell you - we are the ones who believe in the free economy, privatisation and investment - if you are going to do so, do not privatise at all! No more privatisation, Mr. Tsipras, Minister. That's enough! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have been very concerned about energy issues, and I am convinced that Greece can really become an energy hub of our wider region and that it can produce cheap and safe energy with the latest technology and make it available to our homes and businesses. And I am convinced that we can design thousands of new jobs and become truly attractive to renewable energy sources, become the RES plant that will feed the whole of Europe. And that we can and should all understand, be pioneers and not plunderers in the international effort to tackle climate change, implementing instantly innovative tools, such as green bonds. I would remind you that Greece is the country that will perhaps be affected by all the effects of climate change. In New Democracy we have a comprehensive plan to exit the crisis. It also has a central place in this project in a structured and coherent energy policy with a view to the future. We believe that Greece can be an energy hub, autonomous and secure energy, with low energy costs and at the same time a model of meeting climate change targets. Our planned project can help increase public wealth, private investment, jobs, and above all better quality of life for us and our children. Our national energy planning goes hand in hand with the international need to reduce the dependence of the economy on coal and the Paris Climate Agreement, with less oil, less lignite, more gas, much more renewable energy sources, better waste management, less pollution and clean environment. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the President of the New Democracy is ringing.]] I'm gonna need five more minutes, Mr. President. Let me briefly present our plan on eight main lines. The first axis is energy infrastructure and energy security. The challenge concerns Europe as a whole and the promotion of energy security is ensured only by the supply and supply of energy from differentiated sources. We have the potential to be Europe's main energy supply hub from the south. All the projects - I repeat - are all the projects that you fought against: the TAP, the IGB, the extension of the facilities in Revithousa, the underground gas warehouse in Kavala - the fate of this important project is still missing. Hydrocarbon exploration can be implemented quickly, provided there is a government without ideals and without administrative incapacity. Secondly, the question of the cost of electricity. We want competition to function without obstacles and distortions, because only in this way can we finally support households, but above all the Greek industry, which faces strong competition from countries with much cheaper electricity costs. This can only be done with a real and brave liberalisation of the energy market. My commitment is to reduce the other charges, which are included in the electricity bills, the PSOs through the connections of the islands and, of course, the end of the ERT through the commitment that we have made at the end of the ERT to reduce to half what is today. The third issue is the spread of gas. The spread and development of natural gas as well as the transport and storage of liquefied or compressed natural gas must be our main priority in our energy planning. All existing networks will be activated and built in more areas, so that more cities, more households, more businesses gain access to natural gas. Fourthly and extremely importantly is improving the energy efficiency of buildings. The European Energy Efficiency Certificate is an important tool for investment by both the public and private sectors. All public buildings must also have an energy efficiency certificate and have smart meter. What really happened to the smart meter program launched by the previous government and which is absolutely decisive so that buildings can better manage their energy efficiency? We also need to give incentives to the private sector. It is not enough for the 'Security' programmes to be enough for European funds. We are already committed to a 40% to 50% tax reduction for energy and operational property upgrading work with special care for the poorest households, which are in a liquidity problem. This is a tool that will mobilise private sector resources and will make a significant contribution to upgrading a building potential, which is the most energy-intensive in Europe. We have to say it. We have the most energy-driven buildings in Europe today and our building potential is falling apart. We must therefore motivate not only European resources, but also private resources, to invest people in upgrading their buildings. In this respect, of course, we also want to support the framework of the energy services companies, the so-called ESCOs for those who deal more closely with issues which can play a decisive role through partnerships with the public sector, particularly in upgrading public buildings. They enjoy this benefit from energy savings and invest at the same time in a significant upgrade of public buildings. Fifth priority: The increase in the share of renewable energy sources. Portugal - I was reading a few days ago - has announced that its intention is to be electrified to 100% of RES. We're in this international competition? The minimum time today from the request for a production licence to the installation of a wind park is five years. This process must be considerably simplified. Of course, we must also promote a spatial planning plan that does not undermine investment in renewable energy sources. We need to simplify investments in biomass and biogas plants, preferably next to livestock units, by landfill sites, by facilitating these small plants and by safeguarding biofuels in the RES, where they belong internationally and specifically - and I want to stand a little on this - and every household and every consumer who wants to be a power producer himself. We must encourage these investments, particularly in solar cells, which are placed on the roof of the houses, so that the Greeks too can take advantage of the benefits of a new era in which we will leave the centralised models of electricity production and go into more decentralised shapes where small producers can buy and sell with great flexibility in the system. Sixth priority: The absolute acceleration of the interconnection of the islands. This story with the NGO must be finished and only the interconnection of the islands can ensure that the final charge of the electricity account for households can be reduced. Seventh objective: Increase the participation of transport and electricity RES. By 2020 public transport must consume an RES of 10% for their movement. Today we're at 3%. Modernising public transport will give a new, better quality of life to citizens, will significantly reduce their energy footprint. We must - and this should be a national objective, Minister - be pioneers in this new era of electromobility, set ambitious targets. I'm opening a parentheses. India set 2030 all vehicles, which will be sold, to be electrically powered. I do not know whether these objectives are feasible, but they are certainly objectives that show a direction in the market itself and how they want public policies to move. And we have a structured national strategy for electricity mobility, which starts with providing incentives for the development of the network, because somewhere the electric cars must be charged, and it goes up to the exploitation of the country's trained human resources, as evidenced by the development of graduates of the National Technical University in leading companies in the world that are active in electricity. After all, we must not forget - for the engineers we have here in the Chamber - that the new infrastructure specifications of buildings now provide for mandatory charging points for electric cars. The new era has already begun, it's just that we're not in a position to monitor it. And eighth priority. Development of energy storage technologies from RES through research and technology funds. EUR 30 billion is available from the European Horizon 2020 programme in research and innovation. It is an internationally competitive programme where businesses and research centres from across Europe respond to the calls of the new era. We need to focus our research on specific areas, which are related to our comparative advantages. The storage of energy from renewable sources that can convert solar, wind energy into stored fuels should therefore be found at the absolute priority of research funds that we manage whether they are national or European. Ladies and gentlemen, I sum up. Greece can and must reduce its environmental footprint, gradually dismantle from polluting energy sources, focus on renewable energy sources. This also concerns, in particular, the regions of the country dependent on lignite, primarily in western Macedonia, and secondly in Megalopolis. There are European programmes and European projects today, about how these regions can make the transition to the post-liberal era, but we are, unfortunately, outside this debate. I fully understand the great anxiety of the people, especially in western Macedonia, about what will happen when lignite is no longer so important in the local economy and I wish we could at least find a common place in a project, about how there will be a new economic activity in these areas, which can absorb manpower from lignite and from mines to new innovative actions. But, of course, that's not good enough. We as a New Democracy have worked out a special rescue program of the same Public Power Corporation, with the attraction of a strategic investor before it is too late. We have a plan for a coherent energy policy that will bring tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, not in one year, Greece into the pioneering of the Mediterranean and Europe. That should normally be the case today. This is the agenda for the future. The SYRIZA - ANEL bill forces us to talk about the kakito yesterday and the worst of this government today. It is the same government, which fought the great and powerful PPC, turned it into a crippled and now executing it, which gave empty promises like smoke from the fugitives and offered a work of thousands of times more burnt than coal and which poisoned Greeks more than any old polluting plant. I'll say it again. The Government of Tsipras - Kammenos seriously harms the country's energy interests. The New Democracy says 'no' to those who accused the previous government of selling PPC and now bring it a step before the disaster. The country deserves a better tomorrow and energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I will obviously not have an in-depth debate on what we have heard. I would like to put three data, which we need to have together in our minds. Firstly, that there is a continuity in large energy projects. That's undeniable. It was made and completed for the days of this government - so the ribbons are there - IGB. The vertical axis - an important project - Greece - Bulgaria. We are in the final stage and the second half of '18 will begin. The same applies to a number of major projects which, like roads, metro and so on, were completed. So the central idea is that an important work of a strategic nature, the present government and it went on and done it. The second section, however, is the things that the current government has changed in relation to the previous one, that is, commitments, and here we are entering the part of privatisation. I repeat: all three privatizations in the energy sector planned by the previous government have also changed the CRS. The EPC also had real problems with the European Union. We have achieved a much better competition - from the result we are, therefore, judged - at a much higher price. And we canceled IPTO. We kept 51% in public. We can talk for a long time if one pocket was afflicted by 51% by PPC's public shareholder and 51% by the State as a shareholder of IPTO. We can talk about this as long as you want, but the data is that. We have therefore overthrown a second privatisation and, of course, we are doing so on different terms, by putting a strategic investor. And PPC, the "little" PPC, defended by the New Democracy and the PASOK, changed it. We didn't sell any units. We introduced the NOME system, and today after the ruling of the European Court of Justice, 9% - I stress - of the production potential and the country is compatible with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. So we are also judging for the things that we have continued and completed, and we are not just cutting the ribbons, as you have implied, and for the things that we have radically changed. Just with the same realities, I would like to raise a few points that have been raised. ‘Smart’ meter. The previous government's competition is still in court. Like all competitions, of course, he wasn't the only one. That's the pilot program. I'm a house-sharing programme. The previous government approved fifty thousand households after eighteen months of procedure. He had money for fifteen thousand. Of the remaining thirty-five thousand households on paper approved, the present government from other resources - because we could not find money from the old NSRF - covered twenty-five thousand more households. This programme within three weeks approved fifty - five thousand households. We've increased resources to 1 billion and whatever TV you've got, you see ads. The result, therefore, is probably not a failure. Within two months fifty-five thousand households joined, we have 1 billion, and in the next six months one of the most important actions is completed. In addition to saving, we have 2 billion for public buildings. Hydrocarbons. Let's put the data on. Three were the main ratifications made. Today we have record time ratifications. We have two big competitions, the biggest competitions that have been made in a year. The agreements and so on were signed. I'm closing with the energy design. Let me remind you once again that the Greek Government within the European Union is one of those countries which defend the idea, firstly, 'the ambitious objectives, binding targets for the Member States', that is, 30% energy savings and 30% RES in total consumption. It is therefore bound and is one of the countries that have taken the major initiatives for the islands. It therefore participates together - on the initiative of Greece - on the initiative of the Commission in the new large design of the islands for energy autonomy, which is part of the energy planning process and at the same time, as you know, the energy planning process has begun, which will clarify the tools with which we will go to these high objectives, which will come to Parliament three times for consultation before being submitted to the Commission next September. That's the data. I repeat, things have been done, things have been overturned for legitimate reasons. As a result, all things are judged. And in the first case, and in the second difficult, one will say about inertia or inefficiency of this government in energy matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Hatzidakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u38	Minister, Mr Mitsotakis made a proposal for a joint action plan for the regions affected. Joint government action plan - Anti-population. This is the most important of all. You didn't say anything about it. And that was the most important of all!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u39	Are you addressing the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u40	The Minister, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u41	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, may I have the floor, as a parliamentary representative, to make a statement?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u43	You'll have the floor after five minutes after Mr. Hatzidakis went up to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go into the SYRIZA election because it makes no sense. In the economy, at least, he kept no promise. So it's a waste of time. I shall refer to the SYRIZA post-election. I'll start before I get to PPC, from what the Minister just mentioned. He referred to the supposedly successful model of IPTO, adopted by his predecessor. What is the successful model? That after various exchanges of shares took place and PPC lost an important price, which it needed, a 24% investor was found. So he just sits down and collects the safe toll of the current. That's what this is about. You put in a partner who collects money, but has no risk himself and of course does not want to invest and extend PPC's network to the islands. This was the first "big success". The second "Great Success" is about "Security Against House", which had been proclaimed thirteen times in a comic book on the government's side and came today, finally, to tell us that 50 thousand applications were made. We don't have fifty thousand people who have taken money.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u45	No, they're approved.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u46	In fact, Mr Minister, it was such a scene that your platform proved to be "desirable". Because even though it wasn't supposed to mediate a human hand, between Easter's Great Thursday and Easter Monday, it wasn't working. It is SYRIZA's turn towards social democracy and that. In any case, I am going beyond the issues of 'I'm saving at home' because consumers experience them every day and know them. I come to the most technical and much more important theme of PPC. As I told you, I won't talk at all about the election syriza. I'm going to talk about the post-election SYRIZA, see what you're going to vote on. We have L.4336/2015, the Memorandum, which says on page 1029: "In September 2015, the authorities will discuss with the European Commission the design of the NOME auction system, with the aim of reducing PPC's retail and wholesale market shares by 25% and falling below 50% by 2020". So, what did you guys agree to the public character of PPC? That PPC from 90% -95% of the market share by 2020 will go to 50%. In return for what, ladies and gentlemen? In return for what? In other words, an enterprise will have managers, it will have employees, who will be aiming at losing customers in their offices. With zero economics in return! From the "little" PPC passed half of PPC, with a zero profit for the state and PPC. If there is a single person who can substantiate the opposite view, please come and talk to this Step here. Not with a Sanskrit, just Greek. One of the prisoners. Secondly, Mr. Skourletis, the former Minister of Energy, on 27-3-2017 in the "Eventors' Newspaper", says: "As far as the law on "little" PPC is concerned, we abolished it and instead chose the tenders of NOMEs, as the temporary mechanism that we would resuscitate market shares, but mainly would give the time to implement PPC's strategy of partnerships." You were supposed to go to the partnerships. And Mr Skourletis justifies in this way half of PPC without any euros. And Mr Skourletis adds: 'And this, instead of selling the fixed items of 40%'. Last March your line was against what you are doing today. What are you? SYRIZA number one? SYRIZA number two? SYRIZA number three? What number are you all of?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u47	It's just a number.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u48	Tell us the numbers when you sold OTE to the Germans...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u49	Anyway, I'm going further. In the same article Mr Skourletis says: "Different centres raise a question, to sell what is being sold today". And Mr Skourletis continues: "Why raise issues outside the limits of the agreement, restoring scenarios for the sale of 40% of PPC's units?". And the predecessor of Mr Stathakis last year responds: "This is an attack, which in his mind has the property of PPC in order to pass..." - take note of what Mr Skourletis says - "...at degrading prices in specific European and domestic business interests". So let's come here, Mr. Skourlet, see who's right. Is Mr. Skourletis or Mr. Stathakis right? And you will be emptying Mr. Skourlett tonight? Because you're not listening to us anyway. But within you, what do you think? In any case, Mr Tsipras may have a solution to the problem, to relieve you of these dilemmas. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I have here an excerpt from Mr. Tsipras' visit to Amyntheos in 2014 from "AGEI", where he says: "The referendum initiative for PPC is undertaken by SYRIZA. Only the Greek people have the power to make such a decision." Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to be afflicted by historical dilemmas, so as not to be concerned with our criticism, it is very simple: make a referendum. You have the know-how of 2015. If it emerges 'no', you will do 'yes' and we will live well and you better, with fairy tales that succeed each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Maniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to inform you that as a Group of the Democratic Alliance, we will apply for a roll-call vote at the beginning of this bill. Also because the honourable Minister made some reference to the National Energy Plan, I also present for the Proceedings the 2012 National Energy Plan, a hundred and eighty pages. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also present the updated National Energy Plan for December 2014 a hundred pages. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u52	Thank you. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Nikolaos Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my position in this House on the diagnosed ones, I would like to make a reminder, honorable to the House and to the Greeks who are watching, for a great Greek who left yesterday, Angelos Delivorria, the great archaeologist, great museum creator and memorial collections, a beautiful Greek who taught for many decades the newest Hellenism, to know who we are, how we are here and where we can go. A beautiful Greek man, a brave man with great horizons who was able to put in our aesthetics and cognitive field and in the eyes of our soul in front of, a great unity, an organic whole, starting from Phidia, to whom he was an expert, and reaching the memorial objects of Yiannis Ritsos, Hatzyriakos - Gika, Stavros Papaloukas. Let it be a great memory that will accompany the students and all those who had the joy and profit, attend the works of the mind and hands of Angel Delivorria, the people who had the luck of wandering in the museum halls here, in Koumbaris Street, in the collection of Antonis Benaki, the great collector who envisioned this timeless Greek collection and the museum at Piraeus Street, at the Museum of Islamic Art in the old centre of Athens, throughout this chain of museums in the house of Hadjikyriakos - Gikas. Let us hope that the younger generations - such as the Angel who trusted him by Maris Calligas at an early age, the wheel of a good ship and made it a countryside - and the Greek society have the potential, the strength, the courage and the will to show new Angels. Have a nice trip from the Greek Parliament. [[Applause]] We have heard the Chief of Officerial Response, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and we have heard Mr. Yiannis Maniatis, the former Minister of Energy, in a criticism of the bill and a criticism of the government's overall energy policy. With regard to Mr Mitsotakis' criticism, I think that both the Minister and the other members of the government and we SYRIZA Members have openly listened to the well-deserved criticism of listening to the advice given to the national interest. The Minister very accurately pointed out that the government, and continued and completed the major projects, which do not take either two or three years. Maybe they'll take five, maybe ten. It's over, it's honorable. It honors the continuity of the state. He pointed out, however, that some conventions, some agreements, some major projects which, with another political reading, consider them incomplete or incomprehensible for national good, changed them, turned them into something else. And from the results we have to judge for damage and profits in relation to changes. It was also very clear, which some - Mr. Maniotis knows better and he was more careful, Mr. Mitsotakis is probably less prepared, does not clarify - for the huge debt burdens that were created in PPC. The Minister was clear and his words have not been called into question at all. We are talking about 1.5 billion in 2008 and 2011. This is PPC's dowry in the years of the memorandum, bankruptcy and painful compromises, with the rolling bonds of half a billion each, in the short term, to serve the debt burden. That was the dowry! And with this dowry of heavy lending and incomplete modernisation Greece has been in the crisis for eight years. All this political thinking, Mr. Mitsotakis' mytles, who is it to? To the amnin' Greek people who don't know what happened in the last forty years and fifty years? If all of it, a parade of bright barbarians and bright tribes, had this huge national policy of lasting development, preparedness, soundness and rationality, how did the country collapse in 2010? Who's going to give an answer to this? [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] What was national industrial policy and national development policy? What was the policy in the financial sector? Surprisingly days ago, in a recently shot film, I heard the late Greedy Arsenis, a few days before he died, referring to the monetary and banking policy received by the PASOK government in 1981. I'm holding a lead. Interest rates were defined by a monetary committee, led by the Minister for Coordination and by a political decision, the interest rate for the loans of large enterprises was fixed. Two hundred 11 interest rates in 1981! This was the economic and development policy of successive governments in post-government, this was the policy that led to the over-growth of large businesses, which has led to the problems, which have been loaded to the National Bank and threatened with collapse, that has been the policy of rapid deindustrialisation over the last forty years. And that was the policy, which led to the insanity, the irrational credit over-expansion since the 1990s and the whole of 2000, has led to the State over-expansion and the collapse of the Greek economy in the constant pain of Greek society. That's why we need to talk and see how we go forward. I accept Mr Maniotis' agony, who knows of energy, but I do not accept his rabies for a lasting, bitter self-justice without self-criticism. To accept that some of the political actions that it had advanced were both correct and justified, but they were not completed. But how is the country's collapse justified over all the years of credit expansion, the worship of the Stock Exchange, which made governments, the worship of private borrowing, the worship of the credit card in every household, the blind faith that all households can borrow more, and so on? To these people, what are we talking about, after all these years? And what do the parties that have ruled - with their goodness and badness, say, are we not just now rejecting the credit burdens of the parties themselves? How good householders were in their homes with 200 million loans each, which will never be returned or returned after two hundred years? What can we tell these people? What can we say about the international bank scandal, oligarchs, media and politicians, which has broken up both the banking system and the whole country? What can we tell the citizens who suffer from the frozen bills for the media, which in these rooms of the Greek Parliament, were unreservedly confessing that they were receiving loans, just like in the jungle contractors of the coastal hotels in the shells? We got 'em, 'cause it was us. These are the political problems. And Mr Mitsotakis does not give any convincing answers to them, as he does not give for any offshore or anything else. But let us look at the issues of a national strategy for the country's uproar with other political practices and other philosophies. Not even the PASOK, which has erased the memory of bad days, has erased the memories of its judiciaries and convicted members and we are discussing it as if there were no past. For saving, for a simple thing, the Minister answered. He also answered for the money that is available - almost EUR 1 billion - and for the applications that have entered the system - about thirty-five thousand I think were adopted in the last few weeks - and for the potential that may be indicted for some seventy Greek building materials industries and for dozens - sixty, seventy, eighty - jobs that are involved in construction. There are continuitys in good policies, interruptions and divisions in bad policies. That is an answer which we all have to embrace. And ultimately privatization is a great stricken capital in the history of the Greek political class. It started from the time of the Mitsotakis government in the early 1990s and did not start with the best preconditions and results. We all remember how the "OTE" ended in her hands "DEUTSCHE TELEKOM" almost entirely, with what tricks Vegeopoulos intervened to sell the last big package - for which we learned nothing, how and what - and in what ways OTE, who had the largest retail network in Greece, found the network "GERMANOS" to OTE, and what great value those money enclosed. Let us not keep talking about the past. The past has inspired the daily life of the Greek household, the Greek citizen. Let's talk about what we're doing now and how we dream about the country for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too. Mr. Selchas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are concluding the debate on the future of the country's energy policy. This bill radically alters lignite production in the country. The energy map is radically changed in the Florina basin, as well as in the Megalopolis area. We are moving into uncharted waters and it is extremely difficult to predict what the development path of these regions, which have supported energy production at a huge environmental cost, will be. These areas with their rich subsoil have offered much in the public interest. The reward they have received, however, is very small in the face of what they have offered. Our regions deserve a long-term development plan, a development that is sustainable with serious guarantees on the part of the state. I would like to see growth based on stable bases, based on the rational management of lignite, environmental protection, the primary sector, the power of education - and I stress it - in new jobs. With this bill we pass as a country in a new framework of operation. In other words, it is not just a local issue, it is primarily a national issue. Deinvestment in the energy sector concerns energy planning throughout the country. Three years ago our Government with the support of local societies overturned the destructive project of "little" PPC, a plan that would remove from PPC any concept of public character. Today, disinvestment is being attempted in an effort by the country to comply with the European reciprocity and complete the fourth and final assessment before leaving the comitology. The liberalisation of the energy market and the abolition of PPC's monopoly in lignite is a tough but unfortunately necessary prerequisite for the country's exit from the memorandum. Despite these commitments, our priority must be: Firstly, the country's energy planning should not be jeopardised at all. It must be done in terms of public interest. Secondly, labour relations and workers' insurance rights must be fully assured. Thirdly, the reciprocity with local societies must be the greatest possible. It is good to increase the road charge from 1.20 to 1.40 euros. Fourthly, the restoration and return of the territories must be ensured. Especially for Florina, it is positive that there is an explicit reference in the final text of the Act to the obligation of the new company to transport heat to the heating of Florina and Melitis. Fifthly, the new jobs to be created in the region should be covered according to the localisation element. Sixthly, I am also waiting, Minister, for an answer for the replacement of the Axle. All this is a matter of major political importance to me. The commitments made by PPC to local society should be undertaken in full and by the new company. This bill is a painful bill for Florinna and Megalopolis. It is painful for both PPC and its employees, as is painful for all this huge economic crisis that our people have experienced over the years. This crisis is heading towards the end. All the Memorandum obligations are gradually completed. If we cannot get the country out of the Memorandum, history will not forgive us. I hope and hope history will give us justice. The citizens of western Macedonia, the citizens of Florina, who will suffer most of these consequences of energy change, expect much from this government, Minister. Let's not disprove them. Development equivalents must be multiples of what we suffer from disinvestment. You dare, Minister. You owe the Halloween Florina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u56	Mr Odysseus Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill on the sale of PPC's units will be passed by roll-call vote in a few hours. Today, outside, PPC and LARCO are protesting in the Constitution. Other times you were with them. Today you can't go with them. Evaluate why. However, since I do not have much time, I would like to talk to you about what you are voting on today, on what Mr Skourletis said as a 'big business'. I would say 'SYRIZANELBASS'. Mr. Skourletis said that "Someone will take PPC for a piece of bread" and today you come to legislate, vote - you will give the order at night, and the MPs from the energy prefectures and the other MPs - that the contest, whatever the price, will not be able to come out a barren one. Is it a business or not, ladies and gentlemen? I tell you again: You vote that, whatever the price, you will not be able to get the competition out of the barren. In Megalopoli you reduce the power of the newest unit with the cheapest fuel from 820 MW to 500 MW. Your people told you, those who play at SYRIZA's spots, that the cost for reduced electricity generation will be EUR 150 million, not me. Mr. Karupidis, who plays at the spot as the protagonist of SYRIZA, told you that you are deprived of the reward fee from the local communities. A gift to the private, a reduction from the local market! Are you Members and do not want to know what the "reasonable price" is that you will sell PPC's units?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u58	Didn't you do the same thing with OTE when you sold him to the Germans?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u59	Leave the previous ones alone. Previously, society condemned them, as you were saying. Today, will you vote without knowing the reasonable price that the two blocks of units will be sold?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u60	You know about others, don't you know about yourself?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u61	Now, of course, you counted the MPs, you saw that in Kosani you left the units in Kosani, you went to the other prefectures. You say there's been no lignite for many years. Who should I believe in all of you? Believe you or Pan Kammenos, who you're fighting with? Let's see what he said in January 2015: "It has such property underneath the lignite that can be powered over the next twenty years". Here, I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In fact, unit 4 of PPC you are selling, ladies and gentlemen, in Megalopoli, is the unit that has a repository. It'll even burn coal and the one who gets it, the private and because of the system he'll give all the power generation. Here's what SYRIZA's doing. The individual gives all the power generation and the best price, because the unit enters the Price Exchange first because of its connection to Crete for the next forty years. You go to the private monopoly. Is it a biscuit or isn't it a biscuit? If we did that, how about you? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would mention Mr Skourletis - who, however, will vote in roll-call, will raise his hand at night - who was talking about 'bizies', to see if he is telling the truth and who is doing 'bizies'. Is your Prime Minister doing 'bizies'? Who will your Prime Minister give them to? Do you know what Mr. Skourletis said, Minister, 20-5-2016? Listen, it's interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u62	Time's up, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u63	I shall finish, Mr President. He said: "Our strategy for PPC is for the partnerships, not for the violent disfellowshipping of parts of PPC and for the divestment of the art-order". That's what Mr. Skourletis said on 20-5-2016 about SYRIZANEL business.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u64	Good, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u66	And please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u67	You're talking, gentlemen of SYRIZA, but you'll hear from us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u68	We won't listen to you indefinitely, but in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u69	Your MPs, Mr. Papaliou, talked about redundancies, but he'll vote at night. We're not gonna take a picture of him, just like you guys took pictures of them and stuck them in towns. I want to remind you of something else to see what SYRIZA of contractors and contractors means. Is Mr. The Guardian here? Oh, no. So - and I conclude with that, Mr President - Mr President - he asked the bodies which were all SYRIZA: 'How many workers in PPC and in the contractors are today, Mr President?' And he got the answer. I am telling you the answer, and I shall put it before you: 'Today in the group in the broad sense, along with the IPTO, is close to the nineteen thousand, but there are some twenty thousand other jobs with contractor relations, as Mr Theo-Conservant said.' I'm filing it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But how many years do you want to mess with the contractors? The contractors in SYRIZA have more staff than the public sector! Twenty thousand! Mr. Theonas, I remind you of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u70	We know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u71	In other words, "sale the water, sell PPC, sell Komotini"! Congratulations! I expect you to vote for the biggest "bisna" SYRIZA - ANEL in the history of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. All three Members of the Arcadia Prefecture voted for the memorandum, as well as the third memorandum that included the sale, the dissolution of PPC. So the crocodile tears of the Vice-Population MPs - as before the co-population MP who was in Anti-Population - are crocodile tears and nothing less, nothing more. Our country is in danger from all sides. A few days ago there was a KYSEA, where instead of finally ordering freshmen, airplanes and whatever it takes for the national security, independence and self-sufficiency of the country, all they ordered in was some coffees, cookies, doughnuts and sandwiches to make a result, that is, absolute zero. Really, for this sloppiness in planning our country's defensive armour, did you expect anything different? By who? Of the solidarity of illegal immigrants in Mytilene? From the soldiers? From the yachts? From the swabs? Of all those who hate the Greek Army? Oh, no. Of course, we heard after the famous KYSEA - the joke - that in one month we now have two freshmen from the French with leasing. They reminded me of sales for motorcycles or cars with leasing. Of course, all this was done in the end without asking the hotel owner, the French themselves. Are these because of the more general geostrategic and geopolitical situations in the Eastern Mediterranean and elsewhere, of the only five freshmen of this type, would give us the two? No, of course not. We can also see neighbouring Italy, a country that also has huge economic problems, now receives the seventh FREMM Freight, because very simply, regardless of economic circumstances, the country's defence does not leave it to anyone who puts the memorials above the independence of the country. The Italians have F-35 and all that we should have. We hear incredible things every day. We heard Mrs Fotou put her hands on the overwhelming majority of the Greeks and said they did not understand - in other words, that they were stupid - what they had to do with what she restores, that is, the adoption of children from homosexual couples. Gentlemen of PASOK, who yell in general and indiscriminately, heard the day before yesterday about a court ruling that concerns a NGO very well known to you, because they were all PASOK officials. It was from the International Center for Disarmament, where tens and hundreds of millions of euros were being used to take mines out in some countries that no one knows where they might be. And all that was heavy-ass PASOK executives. And where can money be left for the defense when the money was smashed from here and there? So we come to this bill, where while there are sound and generally audiovisual documentaries about what the SYRIZA and ANEL executives were saying until they get the government in early 2015, where only with their listening should have given up after each other, you see that they are so well-meaning in their chairs that people don't leave to ruin. In fact, you manage the incredible, i.e. not only to sell, as you blamed the previous ones, but also at more degrading prices and in incredible terms. We will not say what we heard about the stock that the previous ones would sell at 12 euros, while you will sell at 1,8 euros and various other things. Gentlemen, the property of PPC, its infrastructure, which has been built for decades since the hardship and backwardness of the Greek people alone and cost three billion euros, cannot be given for either one for two billion euros, as the previous ones were to give it, but not for 500 or 600 million euros, as you want to give it now or even less. You are neither entitled to sacrificing PPC, the networks, the infrastructure, everything - as it has started from the previous ones - nor to stir up disgusting situations, nor to give it to various diabetic liars, false investors, who buy monopolies against a lentil billboard. This is because they are not investors, but they are the various 'daveriers' who have done and do work with the public and are releasing the public, with all that that implies to the Greek people. We have heard the opposition speech of the President of the New Democracy, its MPs, the Members of the PASOK - or the Movement of Change or what is called - but we remind you that you have also voted, with the third memorandum but also the previous ones, the sale and dismantling of PPC. So stop mocking people. The only difference you have and you move the finger, the opposition to the government is about the price and not whether PPC should be sold or not. I will also make a small comment. We heard that PASOK had done great, that is, they brought TAP along with the New Democracy. Of course, it is perhaps the worst deal ever made for a pipeline across the globe. It goes through a country, we don't collect transit fees, there's no exit infrastructure to get us out of that gas, too, we have nothing at all. And we expect to see how many workers, who are Greeks from them, who are foreigners and what benefits local communities will have, because when this project is done, we will probably not have anything special. The President-in-Office of the New Democracy spoke and made speeches. He said about the new project, the new plan, about how all this should work. He forgets that his party has been running for over 40 years with PASOK and has led our country here that led it. No perspective, no thought. They never had a look in the future so that events could get ahead and we always get to the nineteenth minute, and we run ramps like a state to gather unbelievables. They are called cheap excuses for dissolving PPC by everyone, by the former and by the present. You say - and it is a lot of argument - about the lignite who was the one giving cheap electricity for decades. Infrastructural built. Tens of thousands of Greek citizens worked there until recently, where contractors constantly take the place of workers and contractors do not hire Greeks. We have already heard Mr Constantinople, MP Arcadias, say about contractors. But even in your days were the contractors. Now, if it's five up, five down, it doesn't change anything. It would be a question of not having contractors within PPC. We have heard from some that lignite is polluting and, therefore, if it is sold to the retail, it will cease to be polluting and have these monopolistic privileges with the contracts for the next few decades to carry electricity and not just. We hear a number of other examples about the reasons why PPC and OTE should be privatised, and that, in the context of free competition, PPC cannot have the monopoly. And what are you doing? Keep from PPC all "shoes" and negatives for the public and give them all the good for a lentil plate, very low price or even free price, to any new "investor", which in specific cases will be completely monopolistic at the expense of this famous competition, which you constantly invoke. In other words, we see a new monopoly replacing an old monopoly. And if we put them in the balance, yes, the old monopoly had a lot of negative effects - and we see what some of them - where the trade unions of GENOP were not fighting for the good of PPC, but only for their working rights, particularly of the workers at PPC. They were those who were fighting with the administration, but at the same time "chibagans" and some tens of millions of euros from PPC administration to go to some conferences in exotic destinations and all good. And all that to the sucker's health. It is the memorial that you see, you say it is the Memorandum of cheques, but always a la carte happening all of what you invoke for the Memorandum. Gentlemen, previous and current, who are selling PPC the situation is tragic. Millions of Greek citizens, hundreds of thousands of Greek households do not have power in their homes because they are cut and cannot afford to pay for it. Many others find it difficult to settle their arrangements. Debts reach about 3,000,000 euros. Many of these debts are not about PPC's account, but about other charges which - because electricity is perhaps the most important item with the water in a household - have been loaded by the various faileds who have ruled this place in recent years. And we see the following sad - out-of-real: in a PPC account there are unnecessarily charged charges which exceed 50% of the actual account. You did not negotiate properly for the mutation and transfer of PPC to the new data. This should be done at a much better rate, with compensatory benefits from the European Union, since Greece was based, for the most part, on cheap lignite, which, with the new methods - and it will appear in the coming years when they take it from private individuals - can be used and indeed be very environmentally friendly. PPC and, in general, energy in each country are one of the most important strategic issues relating to national security, self-sufficiency, national defence, all of which should not be privatised. And we heard Mr. Mitsotakis speaking more. However, the most important of all for energy and energy self-sufficiency in a country is the introduction of the EEZ, which has so far not been done anywhere. Even the Albanians, with whom you agreed a few years ago where the EEZ of Greece and Albania would be will be, took their decision back for other reasons - because they are Turkish goats - and you did nothing about it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. And while the country is proven to be sitting on huge oil deposits, hydrocarbons and energy deposits, you still do nothing. Cyprus, the small Cyprus had the courage and courage, with a great leader, the late Papadopoulos, to establish an EEZ and now start, despite any problems, research, drilling and very soon it will have energy self-sufficiency. She'll be able to sell, she'll be able to do a lot of things for the benefit of her residents, her economy and her defense. You've done nothing because you don't care about any of this, but you don't really care about business, cognitives, tavernas, mysteries and faces from your memorial masters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u74	Mr Stylus has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is there even one fellow Member, since the debate that has taken place, understood and can broadly develop the overall design of today's government for the energy future of our country? I am not talking about the appropriate ministers. I refer to my fellow Members. After the debate in committee and in the Minister's speech, is there any of the colleagues who have understood what the government is doing in energy matters? What's her policy? With what reliable plan will it be implemented? Within what timeframe? What would she want to leave behind when she delivers the spoon? What is its own creative contribution to the major problems of high energy costs, the environmental footprint of energy sources, the RES? Ladies and gentlemen, it was an opportunity on the occasion of today's bill to listen in general to the position of the Greek Government on these issues, how this bill is part of a more general government plan for the energy future of the country. But we didn't hear any of this. We have heard from the Minister responsible only a petty criticism of the bad past. Same spectators work. The 'bad past', the 'old political system', the 'bad policies' on the one hand and the current government on the other, which proposes what? There's a big question in our ears. Let me tell you what he proposes. On the basis of the explanatory statement, it proposes and says in particular: 'The deposit of the current bill is intended to ensure equal access to all sources of energy, also in line with the European demand for the liberalisation of the electricity market in terms of free competition'. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, do you believe in the liberalisation of the electricity market? Do you believe in free competition? If you believe - which, based on the logic of the bill, you believe - as this is his objective, you should also explain how you support the government's election announcements, when you said that the sale of PPC is a national crime and should be overturned. It is not possible for each other to apply. Separates the specific positions, the abyss policy and the abyss ideological. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth we all know is that you do not believe in the free economy, in the liberalisation of markets. If you could, you'd be staggering the private sector. You are simply speculating on the road to socialism, making the necessary compromises and retreats, as some former Minister and colleague have said. To what end? In order to remain in power. You have therefore voted for a memorandum, which is why you have undertaken to implement policies, which you do not believe and which is why you are wrongly implementing them. In this case, the cost for both the remaining PPC and consumers, but also for the energy market, is enormous. You spoke of the bad past of the previous governments. However, we have heard nothing and no word of self-criticism about your things, three years of government SYRIZA. You said nothing, which for three and a half years, implementing your unique election commitment "I Do Not Pay", PPC's due requirements were ejected from 1 billion euros in the summer of 2014 to 3 billion euros today. You said nothing about PPC's stock market value, which was cut by 80% from EUR 2.5 billion in 2014 to EUR 0.6 billion today. You did not say a word while canceling the sale of 66% of IPTO, you gave the private person control, selling 24%, to receive just EUR 300 million, and the previous solution would receive EUR 1.2 billion. You are not apologizing for the many mistakes that you have done and you are coming today with the bill to build a "knock" PPC, transferring to it all the weights and loans of the units in question, which, in fact, is forced to reduce its turnover by about 40% and which will lose its most competitive units. Her future is uncertain. With your plan, neither will competition work the problem of PPC's dominant position, nor do you reduce the cost of production, so that industries, the market, consumers, the processing have a cheap current. Unfortunately, PPC's future is a pitiful result of its "I vote and weep". Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the time that the roll-call vote will take place is at 15.30 p.m. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, in its friendly tactics, when it comes to critical issues, which have disastrous consequences for the people, passes the bills by express procedures from this House. This category is part of the bill to privatise PPC's lignite mines and lignite stations, which is a crucial neural legislation for business groups, after they have fully won a new level of profitability, that of energy. The Government is in a hurry to prevent the predetermined dates of the agreements concluding the fourth assessment, according to which the relevant tenders should have been opened in May and before the end of the year the contracts with the new investors have been signed. Privatisation is a premeditated crime and requires the intensity of the attack on labour rights, overall at the expense of the people and the country. This crime has a SYRIZA seal. It is imposed by the European Union-capital strategy and is a follow-up to the laws, which all governments, New Democracy and PASOK, such as the gradual privatization of energy, the ban on PPC dealing with the RES, a precondition for private investment or the NOME tenders from this government, in order to buy alternative suppliers cheap electricity from PPC, to sell in turn to final consumers, at lower prices. It is a crime because, firstly, there will be redundancies of workers in PPC and even worsening of their working conditions. After all, he confessed yesterday, both by Mr Panayotakis and by the Minister himself, saying that the legislator cannot predict jobs and employment issues of two private companies. It would be out of legislative competence. Of course, their workers and families are already in their hands the dissolution of labour relations, wage cuts, labour intensification and increased accidents at work. It is a crime, because there will be new major increases in electricity tariffs, plunging people into even greater energy poverty. Push extremely expensive for the people and cheap for the big capitalist businesses. It is confirmed, ladies and gentlemen, that the Communist Party of Greece's position is that the energy design of all governments is not based on the people's labour needs, but on the gains of the monopolies. It turns out how dangerous for employment rights and people's needs is liberation policy. It is no coincidence that the only ones happy with the draft law were the representatives of the Union for Industrial Consumers, who directly confessed that these measures strengthen competition in the energy market for the benefit of industrialists. The responsibilities for privatization of PPC do not relieve New Democracy and PASOK for voting against the draft law. They do not vote for it either for reasons of impression or because they cannot get acquainted with the idea that SYRIZA takes them into the mouth or because their disagreements are in the individual and do not concern the energy liberalisation strategy. The transfer of labour rights and obligations of PPC S.A. staff. the new anonymous company for an additional six years, under the draft law, is a manoeuvre of PPC's government and administration, throwing ash into the workers' eyes, golding the release pill in order to avoid reactions. There is no doubt that in the near future, nor will the whole of labour rights, which will be even more lame, as long as competition is exacerbated. Is it accidental that at the moment PPC's units are being privatised, we are negotiating for the collective labour contract in the company, with proposals from the administration for reduced regular staff, the introduction of the evaluation, aimed at intensifying labour and wage cuts, while promoting private insurance, introducing redundancies with the so-called 'family' and seeking to drastically reduce the beneficiaries of the so-called 'family'? No, of course not. PPC's administration and the government at the same time aim, through the extortion of workers, to impose its conditions as a step in meeting the demands of business groups. That is why the JRC calls on the workers not to fall into the trap of the choice of the way they are slaughtered, to reject governments, urban parties, even regional and municipal authorities, who have put their hands on, all who agree and implement the liberalisation of energy and will try to rebuild them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a little while. The JRC invites workers in racing conflict, with radical and pretentious targets, to drastically reduce the rates of popular consumption, for mass recruitment to PPC, with full and permanent fixed work, to sign collective labour contracts for all staff, without exceptions, for the abolition of contract workers’ slavery, for thirty-five hours, five hours, for the abandonment of overtime policy, in order to avoid the delivery of lignite mines, lignite reserves and water potential in private groups. The JRC calls on workers, not only to resist the plans to privatise PPC, but to take the step towards joining the JRC in the conflict and break-up line with the status of ownership of monopolies in the energy sector and as a whole in the economy, in the conquest of labour power for the organisation of the new way of production and central planning, as basic conditions for the fulfilment of all people's needs, in order to solve the problem of energy, by ensuring it as a social good and not as a commodity, as it is today in capitalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u78	Mrs. Vagonakis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u79	Today we are discussing a key bill, with specific data in front of us. Firstly, there is a serious obligation for Greece to comply with the irrevocable ruling of the European Court of Justice, which obliges us also to allow individuals to invest in energy based on lignite. Secondly, there is a commitment from international conditions, but it is also our political choice to reduce the exploitation of lignite over time. The bet for the government is that the above should be done in a fair, orderly and rational manner, which also protects the country's energy planning and ensures the public interest and respects the past, but also the future of PPC and the fact that its contribution to the productive reconstruction of the country is enormous. In other words, the issue is primarily a national issue and not a local one. I would like to believe that the government is dealing with this with the utmost seriousness, canceling disastrous plans from the previous government, while at the same time choosing to negotiate better conditions in the framework of the agreements and commitments, which have been concluded and which have been put - I recall this - in the Greek people's crisis in the September 2015 elections. I would remind you: When we took the lead, IPTO was heading for privatization. We blocked this, holding 51% in the public sector, while investing seven hundred million by a strategic investor, which brought a positive result. We have received the DEPA with a competition for four hundred million in an Azeri company, with many problems of European law. We canceled him and proceeded to a reopening eighteen months later, and the four hundred million became five hundred thirty-five. We received a PPC ready to sell and not only prevented this, but limited the losses to the minimum. What had the Samara - Venizelou government voted for? The small PPC law, which provided for the following: 22% of its total production potential would be for sale, i.e. 21.4% of lignite potential, 18% of its natural gas potential and 26.3% of its hydroelectric potential, while in the second assessment the deinvestment of 40% of lignite capacity had been decided. The proposal submitted by our Government at the end of 2017 provides that in the short term PPC maintains 78.6% of lignite potential and over 90% of production, while in the medium term by 2026 68% and 65% in the long term. In fact, PPC's production base remains intact with the sole exception of the part of the lignite plants, in which, anyway, we need to disinvest gradually, as I said before. Most importantly, however, no hydroelectric power plant is sold, which is the best in terms of efficiency and profitability. No gas unit is sold with Megalopolis V, which are also highly efficient units. What's for sale? Two lignite units in Megalopolis, one of which has a life span by 2025, and the unit of Melite. But what remains compared to the new PPC? Agios Dimitrios, where the competitiveness of all units is increased after the environmental upgrade, as well as Ptolemais V, which will, by the end of two years, constitute the best lignite unit of all. Thus, by the beginning of the 2030s, PPC retains the advantage, not only in total production, but also in lignite units. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has three peaks. One concerns PPC, to which I referred, the second concerns local communities and their third workers. As far as workers are concerned, the bill, following the improvements and the debate that took place in the committees, does not leave any room for misinterpretation. Firstly, the collective agreements, as made by the General Assembly - PPC and the management of the company, are transferred to the new plants. Secondly, it is clearly stated that for six years new companies cannot proceed with redundancies. Thirdly, the new companies will be transferred the necessary staff to operate the factories and mines normally, according to PPC's decisions. The rest of the staff will be moved to other subsidiaries of the group or will benefit from an exit voluntary scheme, while the employees are earning a one-off release of EUR 15 000. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. As far as local communities are concerned, we must never forget that lignite in these areas has not been burned locally, but for national reasons. So, at some point, we need to be serious about financing a comprehensive plan for these regions, as the environmental burden suffered by western Macedonia and Megalopolis is enormous. At the same time, the transition to post-liner activity should not be a local problem, but a national necessity. The part of the strategy for the restoration of lignite soils has been debated in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. What comes up is the question of the return of the territories, but also the strategy for their restoration. And that is why we may have to address a recovery strategy fund that operates as a development equivalent to these areas. At the same time, the protection of local rights through the calculation of compensation measures, such as the lignite tax, should be as fair as possible for these regions. I think that the lignite, which from what I have heard has increased - and I am glad about that - is the best equivalent. This is confirmed by the recent data, as well as by all the studies and forecasts that the Ministry has in its hands for the years to come.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u80	Mr Barriottas has the floor from the PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago, in the autumn, if I remember correctly, the United Kingdom announced - not with pride - that for the first time since the industrial revolution began, it was able to spend a 24-hour week without having to burn a single kilo of carbon. With no less pride, we are at times reading communications from countries such as Portugal, Germany, Denmark, and the country's full 24 hours of operation are going through energy based on 100% of renewable energy. You see, it's a new era. The international debate and the debate that is taking place throughout the world is about renewable energy. It is about a new way of organising energy production and trafficking, energy networks, completely new ones. The planet today invests in the networks and new forms of energy, whatever this means for innovation, the development of countries that have taken the relevant initiatives and the ecology, as the new energy is clean, far away from classical industrial polluting production. Long before the crisis and until 2015 this debate was also held in Greece. The debate on the RES, on reducing dependence on lignite, was alive. For how investment in energy, attracting large investors from abroad, but also from the country, in the field of energy, would be a backdrop for development from now on, it was a lively debate that included development, absorption and diffusion of innovation. He was always in public. The first serious attempts were made in the crisis. They also involved investment in renewable energy sources, generators, wind turbines, photovoltaic arcs and caused reactions. We all remember flagrant forms of trade unionism, react and download PPC switches. We all remember teams of ecologists - God does them! - who protested against renewable energy sources alone in this country, and we all remember SYRIZA being in front of these reactions. We all remember the Prime Minister to exchange hands with this kind of trade union tactics and embrace all of these reactions. In this context, the proposal of “small” PPC was a serious proposal towards liberalising the energy market and converting PPC to a competitive company that could stand in the new environment, ensuring funds, ensuring technology, etc. "Germanolides", "sold", "the silversmiths of the family", promises for many and others, lignite plants in Kozani, Florina, Megalopolis, and promises to preserve its monopoly, undisturbed for the next thirty years, was the policy of SYRIZA until 2015. And since then, the country has also been in the energy sector in a peculiar Nirvana. There's nothing going on. The picture that one has is that when the Memorandum Checks are approaching and pressing dates are coming, someone wakes up, writes a bill like - as he pushes it through urgent procedures - preferably - in the House and then returns to non-existence. Networks, investment in renewable energy sources, new investments, private attraction. Have you ever heard anything? Instead of discussing the future of energy, which is, instead of discussing how to trigger the country's development, based on a vital sector, which is energy, we are talking about the past, we are talking about lignite and we are discussing the disinvestment - it says - of PPC. That's a nice term for the sale! Extremely interesting as a neologic. And we're not talking about anything else. But now PPC, instead of a 'little', is becoming bad. In other words, instead of a company that, as we said before, made an effort and intended to create a competitive public body that could stand up to competition and operate in the new environment of liberalisation of energy, we have a bad PPC, because PPC keeps the units that will be closed because they are derelict and there are no funds for modernisation. It keeps the workers who do not want the private ones, who will take the good units, that is, the fillet, at the price they want and throw them in their piggyback, and it keeps the clientele that they also do not want the private ones, the non-profitable one. They're keeping the poor payers and the social invoice. The result is that this PPC is what we call bad bank. This means that the cost of producing this PPC in the future environment, where costs and competitiveness will be the criterion and not the protectionism of any government, will become non-functional and sooner or later, it will fail. We close ten years in the crisis, in deinvestment and in declining, and not only in the deinvestment of PPC, but in a generalised disinvestment. The government, having made a huge shift, is trying to implement what was not implemented in 2010, in 2012. It is trying to implement them in 2018 and, unfortunately, they cannot apply these to a minimum, as they are work done by ideals and fixed perceptions, which do not help. To use the words of our rapporteur, Mr Arvanitides, and to close with them, no one deserves this situation, neither in the country nor in the PPC, nor in the Parliament. What we need is new investment in the competitive energy sectors, so that we can trigger growth, and that requires a national strategy, which, unfortunately, this government does not even imagine, and most of all, cannot dare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, too. Mr Megalomoustakas, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the position of the Centro Association is clear and we have made it clear from the outset. We are voting against, because we in no way want to be complicit in the sale of the lignite plants in the country. We do not want to involve ourselves in this sellout of our national wealth, which we do and it is nothing different, as you want to call it. All the governments, which have been to date, PASOK and New Democracy, but also your own, have completely repudiated PPC. They're cutting it and selling it to private people. It's not what our country needs. The only thing that fits this bill is that it coincides with your tactics to date. Unfortunately, growth will not come, under no circumstances do we see light in the tunnel, following this path. We are very afraid that, because of the poor policy that has existed so far, because of the 'great food' that has been in PPC and has made it a place to serve the party interests, it is very difficult to save it. But we must try. With this bill, it's very difficult to achieve it. Unfortunately, there is never a National Energy Planning, and this tragic shortage is one of the main factors, from the main reasons that led us here today. We cannot understand how you are going to make such an important bill, such as the sale of lignite plants, without such planning, with which you should ensure the country's energy supply and hence its productive development, which has the effect of our national independence, which cannot be achieved unless there is a strong economy. But by selling PPC we are not going to make it. You did the same with the other guys. Today's bill, as in the past with the RES by the NOME type procedures, did not see PPC, under any circumstances. You do everything without a plan, in the clipboard, in a hurry and without giving time for effective consultation. You say you privatise PPC to comply with the judgments of the European Court of Justice. There's no such thing. Privatisation in the form of disinvestment is not imposed by any European directive, by any European regulation, but by the contrary, by what the European legislature wants to ensure is to restore free competition in the electricity market. We, as the Central Association - we have said so on several occasions - are against monopolies, both in the public and in the private sectors, and are in favour of competition on the retail and wholesale energy market, because only through competition will we achieve a price reduction. We want, however, to reduce the bills for individuals and businesses, because this will make our economy more competitive, so we will attract foreign investments - which are the investments we want - and not by selling our own property. We don't deny that PPC has problems. Surely, it can't keep working as it was working today. Sure, we need to put the knife in the bone sometime. However, we believe that disinvestment, which means, in effect, dismantling and divesting against a lens plate, is not the right solution. In these three years of negotiations, I am sure there were other alternatives, which you should take into account. Choosing this solution, i.e. selling out lignite plants, is definitely something that will have serious consequences for our economy. You have given the most productive and profitable units or you will give by voting for this bill today you, "Megalopolis II" and "Megalopolis III", "Meli I" and "Melito II". Once again, you will confirm the 'category' which exists in our society that you may negotiate bravely, but at the end you bring us and vote for what the lenders give you. It's not what you promised the people. It's not what we want. And certainly, the Greek citizen doesn't want it. You do everything you can to get them what you promised on 22 June in order to complete this fourth evaluation, so that we have this supposedly clean exit from the memoranda. You won't make it. You know that very well. You are committed to tough measures both for 2020 and for 2021, and unfortunately, I have the impression that we have sold out our country by 2099. Now with regard to the bill, I want to become more specific about the amount you are claiming for these units, because there is no. The sale of these lignite plants of PPC will certainly be with an international auction. But you say that if no bidders are found, there will be no price limit, there will be no minimum price, that is to say, we will vote to sell or ultimately, and - in introductory terms - 'thank' production units that bring wealth, no matter where mismanagement takes place and we cannot manage it. Unfortunately, you will do the thanks of those who, while fifteen years have been able to make their own power plant, will now come and get almost free of these power plants at such a degrading price. The sale of 40% of lignite production, precisely because it does not have a minimum price, leads PPC's overcompensated to destruction. The lignite plants on sale are flexible. You know very well that they have low production costs, low emissions due to desulphurisation plants and can operate all hours, thus continuously producing power without a problem. It is, as I said before, the most productive units we have at the moment. You described them as'silver'. You also limit the operation of the new gas plant of Megalopolis to more than 30%. Why? In this way you do not guarantee competition, but instead you distort it, after you remove a basic weapon from PPC. So, we're destroying a structure to operate another one? That's wrong, and you know it very well too. We do not want all this burden to fall in any way on the backs of the Greek taxpayer. It is also provided for in this bill, by way of derogation from any other provision of law, a number of privileges for these two young, bad ones - as you would like to say - the PPC that will be set up. These two small PPC, the 2018 subsidiaries complete the depreciation of PPC, which had begun in 2014. Let me remember what's going on. Under the legislation, through NOMEs, the wholesaler buys cheap at the expense of PPC to sell expensively, not only to consumers, but also abroad. This is called a disgrace when PPC even when it meets domestic electricity needs buys very expensive external energy. See what you're going to vote on. These two small PPCs, which are created by the draft law, combined with the NOMEs, leave PPC with customers who are not desirable to the existing providers, while at the same time the NOMEs remain only in PPC, whereas the memorandum you voted on, in particular, on page 32, provides that the deinvestment of lignite production will be predicted so that these will gradually be phased out. However, you put a smaller PPC weights that do not have competitors. How will it work? I'm telling you again, you are destroying PPC for other providers to function. The separating of lignite plants will reduce PPC’s production and will not be able to meet the domestic requirements. So you are consciously turning PPC into a bad bank, which has been heard many times today, leave all the negative, all the burdens on PPC and cleanse the other providers. PPC is the third tax office in Greece at the moment, along with the Independent Public Revenue Authority and the Insurance Revenue collection centre. The Greeks can no longer carry that burden. You need to understand, you have to get all your engines working on the full, so that this much-needed growth comes, because we don't go as we should, under no circumstances. There are no, despite the Minister's interventions, the necessary compensation measures for the areas in which these units exist. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Very little time, Mr President. The timetables you set cannot be described as reasonable. On the contrary, we call it utopian and very suffocating, and we do not believe that you will be able to implement this sale or sale, as we say best, by the end of the year. Therefore, we have not heard there is a second shot, and we see that the bad habits of the past are not cut and the bad habits of the past that have arrived here when PPC arrived, as well as there is no plan for what all these workers will be. How can you implement the voluntary program? Since I have no more time, and I hope I have a secondary one, I will conclude by saying that today we should not discuss this problematic bill, but we should have a dialogue on national energy planning. We do not know what this bill is aimed at, we do not know in any case what interests you serve. What we know, however, is that in no way, in exercising this policy, you are not serving the national interest of that country. That is why we are voting against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u84	You don't have a deuterology. You had fourteen minutes, that's enough. Mrs Fotini Arabatzis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for days now both Mr Stathakis and the SYRIZA Members have been trying to convince themselves, but also all of us, that for the bill they are voting on today, in a few hours' time, it is about the sale of three lignite units and one of PPC's licenses, it is not their fault that they brought it to Parliament, but what we should do, so life, the bad European Court of Justice, is what forced them to bring it. A little political bravery, however, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, would not hurt. Tell me the truth once. And the truth is simple. Do another piece of shit, get over it with one more delusion, disappear another election red line, maybe the redest one of them all, except, of course, that you'd sketch the memorial with an article and a law. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there are still in our ears the election lights of your Chief, who threatened gods and demons that if investors come to Greece and buy among others a piece of PPC, they will lose their money and be found in prison, that PPC will be for ever 100% state-run business. You yourself were saying it before you sat in the comfortable chairs of power, at every gathering, on every television show. After all, you were the same ones who are urging the citizens for the "I do not pay" movement and PPC's accounts, no matter how much you now try to rally together and claim that you meant and urged them not to pay all the bills of PPC, but the one that was about HNPIA. You, Minister, said that the sale or privatisation of PPC was a national crime. And now you come to sell its most profitable units, with the greatest, of course, political cynicism. And your PPC president, who has been a trade unionist for years and a trade unionist of SYRIZA, is coming to the House to admit that your government is doing what previous governments should have done and he admits that we all knew, for fifteen years, that PPC could not continue this way. I wonder why Mr Tsipras did not say that in fact. And because Mr Stathakis has been telling us for four days now that this bill, indirectly but clearly, was approved by the Greek people in September 2015, does the Minister want to explain to us when, both he and the Prime Minister, in the September 2015 elections, they told the Greek people they would sell the PPC units? Such a political tale, among other things, you served by election to the Greeks in order to guard their vote. Of course, deception with SYRIZA never stops, unfortunately, ever. Because at the same time you say that the bill imposed on you by the European Court of Justice and the agreement with the lenders and that you yourself would never do so at the same time as you confess to the explanatory memorandum to the bill, by signing the relevant minister and the appropriate ministers, that the sale of lignite plants will help free competition and that it will lead to a reduction in electricity prices for the benefit of the consumer. From a lie to a lie, from a contradiction to a contradiction. Ladies and gentlemen, you are trying, you are supposed to ensure healthy terms and free competition for PPC. At the same time, however, you have led PPC to the brink of bankruptcy. With your policies, you have led it over the past three years to the loss of 80% of its stock exchange value. You took PPC at a stock exchange value of 2.5 billion and devalued it at a stock exchange value of 0.6 billion. And you now come with this bill to sell extremely competitive units, literally its "silver" units, which have the lowest variable costs, i.e. they are the most competitive ones, which you exempt from all burdens and offer fillet to individuals. And you have the nerve at the same time to say that it was bad for our bill for "little PPC", which, Ministers, would receive 2 billion from its sale and 4 billion investments. You canceled "little PPC", as with a lot of pride Mr. Stathakis mentioned some ten times, while three years you are now deceiving and destroying PPC as a whole, leading it to huge economic deterioration. The dues have exceeded EUR 3 billion, from EUR 1 billion and, of course, PPC is at risk, unfortunately, with sudden death and bankruptcy at any time. Your bill undermines the viability of the company and, of course, the jobs. You have no complete and serious energy planning for PPC and the way you attempt to sell the units you charge the company that will remain in the public sector, causing the huge problem of sustainability and competitiveness. And all the other Members of Parliament who are elected in the regions affected by this bill have found that they will vote for something that is the least evil. Wrong, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA! You are voting for a bill that is the greatest evil for the business and local communities involved. That is why the district chief and mayors and trade union representatives were on fire and ramp at the hearing and characterize this bill as disastrous. On the contrary - and I am closing down with your tolerance, Mr President - the New Democracy's positions are clear about PPC and of course the country's energy planning. We believe in liberalisation of the energy market, with the aim of reducing the electricity price for the consumer, households and, of course, businesses. We believe it is necessary to have a strategic investor in PPC in order to bring it back. We believe in the need for a structured plan for the gradual decommissioning of lignite and the strengthening of Renewable Energy Sources. Renewable sources of energy such as those of the improvement plans, Mr Ministers, of the Rural Development Programme, to meet the needs of farms, valuable Community funds, which are now three and a half years old, will be allowed to squeeze in drawers, depriving them of the real economy. Of course, we consider it necessary to restore regions with brave funding and incentives to secure jobs. We want PPC dominating, powerful and profitable. You, unfortunately, make PPC weak financially, anemic and now lead it to the sale.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u86	Mr Famelos, Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, although this bill is completely in the portfolio and the Minister's responsibility, I felt obliged to speak today, following the debate yesterday and yesterday, because I have an obligation to set up a framework that has not been heard so far in the whole debate and which should be described as us. I'm not doing the teacher. But since it is our political obligation, it is not just knowledge, we need to discuss the scope of this bill. Two are the dominant issues that a simple, reasonable man would put when we talk about energy. One is energy planning and the other is climate change. The issue of energy planning has been heard. I heard it from Mr. Dendia, from Mr. Mitsotakis, from Mr. Barriotta, from Mr. Megamystakas. They said we don't have energy planning and we're doing an act of luck. But you will allow me to say that the issue of climate change has not been heard by anyone. The issue of the major global changes that need to be made so that we can respond to what we have been elected for, which is the sustainability of life and production, I have not heard it from anyone. And this is a great political deficit, which must rejoin the debate with government intervention. We no longer have a global opportunity to discuss anything productive, far more energy, if we do not take into account the effects of climate change and the global agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It is the only, institutional and socially required choice that we need to make. Because sustainable development and the Paris Agreement are a number of things that have been agreed worldwide in both the UN and the European Union, and we must take them into account, because I really think there will be no reason why we have been elected if we do not take these parameters into account. But what is the situation? First of all, I was impressed by the fact that Members, and probably the Chief of Officerial Representation accused us of not having this whole debate in the context of energy planning. I think it has not been more than two weeks since the Minister also invited the Committee on the Environment for a debate on energy planning in 2030. So there has been a special debate in the House on the energy planning of the next decade. And we have had a debate, an open consultation with the producers at the Ministry, again two weeks ago, because the issue of energy planning has also been raised in society, and there is a special consultation committee where we have already tabled both the Minister and I the parameters on which the debate on energy planning is taking place. The fact that a fellow Member has not been informed of this matter is simply a deficit of his office. Not knowing about it by the Chief of Officer Response shows how high it is and how much it actually has on its agenda and the environment and energy. In practical terms, it seeks to make micro-policy on a subject on which Parliament has already taken initiatives. And it wasn't a government's initiative outside the House, it's an initiative within the House, which you should know. What is the plan, however, of energy planning and climate married together? The plan therefore has a medium-term horizon for 2030, since the country fulfils and fulfils its requirements and obligations for 2020 for the issue of climate, the use of renewable energy sources and the reduction of energy consumption. It has a plan for 2030, which is important - I will say what it means to electricity production - and at the same time it has a plan to increase energy production from renewable energy sources. We must inform you that in 2020 this rate for Greece will be at least 30%. This is an achievement that our country has today, a achievement that belongs to Greek society and we must mention. In 2030 things will be much harder and I'll tell you what this means to PPC. But what is the long-term energy and environmental objective? Ladies and gentlemen, we must bear in mind that the 2050 plan, which is already being discussed at European Union level, provides for a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by over 80% in relation to 1990 emissions. This means, in practical terms, that in thirty-two years' time our country and Europe should have zero greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990 emissions. This also applies to electricity production. Because there are sectors and sectors of society and the economy that cannot reach absolute zero. Electricity, however, in terms of emissions, will have to zero off its yields. For this reason, we are making a design of renewable energy sources, which is geographically complete, so we claim the islands' connection so that it can produce renewable energy, which will come to the mainland's network and vice versa. That is why the Government has called for a special article in the recent directive on emissions trading, where there is a special article for Greece which finances between 500 and 600 million the electricity interconnection of the islands, which the previous governments did not think about, and which is the first time that this has been done. So we are now discussing another role of PPC, which will also be adapted to climate obligations, a role for PPC, which must first of all be sustainable and compatible with the obligations, but also ensure access to the good of energy to society. Because this has not been heard, that is, how this bill ensures citizens' access to the energy product. In order not only to speak theoretically, because a Member could choose and tell me "and what did you do about it?", I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that this government took responsibility and solved the problem of mediation, a great hydroelectric project, which was deaf in all previous years, because it was linked to a paranoid plan of diversion of Acheloos. Why had such initiatives not been taken by previous governments, since they both wanted PPC’s good and access to the good of energy? This was done by this government. What have previous governments chosen to do? To make the bubble with the photovoltaics and ELAPE, the special account, i.e. to fuel the economy and society that did not produce Greek gross product, but had the Special Account of RES until this year. Because they have referred citizens and producers to the Special Account of the RES, but they have not had any money in it to meet the obligations. And this year - and I think that is why you are laughing, Mr Screka - it is the first year that the special account has a positive balance and has an excess of resources. Because you had given him strong damage, as you delivered the country. This was the choice, the choice of a bubble, without knowing what energy planning means - even the President of the New Democracy did not know it today - and on the basis of the state's mortgage. But we know that for 2030 PPC and electricity production have specific obligations. The objective that has been set, which is to reduce 43% of emissions compared to 2005, is the objective for the large energy plants - and obliges us to make important areas of energy planning, but also for PPC's viability. Two things are resolved at the same time: the energy design and viability of PPC. This is because we need to take into account - and I do not know if you have taken into account - the cost of operating costs that PPC will bear with the sum of EUR 20 per tonne of carbon dioxide the marketing price will reach. It is quite clear to me why the directive on air emissions, which also aims at 2030, which amends all Europe's energy production, Directive 75/2010 on standards in power plants from which we tried and got an exception for the units of the islands - because this government had to win it - so that they could be opened until they were connected with the mainland, as I heard nothing about the European Regulation on the electricity market, which sets the limit of 550 grams of carbon dioxide per kilowatt. These parameters when will they be heard in a debate that modifies the entire energy model? Why has this criticism not been heard, which should be discussed in this context, by any opposition party? Quite simply, because there is no plan for PPC from Anti-Population, because they have never been interested in human health, the environment, or the sustainability of PPC. They simply continue to do clipping and unscientific politics and unfortunately only to make politics when they are drawn by some "pimps". That was Greece's past. But we are obliged to give PPC and the lignite-based society a clear proposal. That is why the government has chosen and increased the reward fee, the EUR 1.2 has become 1.4, but at the same time we are planning our own contribution to the Fair Transfer Fund on tomorrow's day of the lignite regions. So we have a great European debate. We have been with the Minister of State with the Vice-President of the Commission and we have discussed Greece's accession to the initiative of the Post-Government Regions, the Fair Transfer Fund, which we supported in the European Parliament, and we have already ensured that the lignite and post-German region will be given priority over the next funding tools. But we are also considering our own national contribution. So, from the revenues of the auctioning of carbon dioxide rights, our Ministry plans to set up a Greek Fair Transfer Fund for the mining regions. This Fund can be said to have room for manoeuvre, because the Special Account of the RES is not injurious, which we had more than 70% of this revenue, and we have the opportunity to say that in the first phase and this year the estimate for the budget of the Fair Transfer Fund for the lignite regions amounts to EUR 20 million. This is our contribution to these difficult conditions, which can catch a place for both work and progress in these areas. But the question that comes now, because we talked about this, is this: is it possible at every sitting in this House that we hear so much take news? Is it possible for representatives of parties to come here and say, for example, that it was the result of the negotiation and the memorandum, that is, of our own convention, the subject we are discussing? I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to do so. Was it someone's responsibility that we are discussing today the deinvestment in lignite plants? I want you to ask those who were responsible for the country when these judgments were lost in the European Court of Justice. Because it is a European Court of Justice ruling, 2016, end of 2016. The country entered into this obligation at the beginning of 2018. So it was not in any negotiation in the summer of 2015, in any of the country's obligations, and it is a matter for which the previous governments, as they represented, were responsible for the country in the European Court of Justice. No more lies. These are also written in the rapporteur's report and I think that it is a little falsifying to refer here to the last paragraph, which says that this disinvestment can also be an opportunity to attract investments and not to mention the compulsory nature of the introduction of the explanatory statement. These are fast news: I read the last sentence and I hide the judgments of the European Court of Justice that my own governments have lost, namely PASOK and New Democracy. Second face news: that there is no compensation. In other words, EUR 1.4 is not a compensation that has risen. In addition, we also have a fair transition fund in these areas. Third phase news: that lignite has room for it. Quantities have and are national reserves for us. Does it have room under climate legislation? Does it have room for manoeuvre on the basis of global emissions limits on the environment? Why don't you go out and say it open to society? We are policy-making much more serious, but also scientifically and responsibly than you. Of course I cannot say anything about Mr Screka, who insists that hydroelectricity enter this contract. Mr. Screka, that's probably what you want. We don't want it. We defended it and they don't come in. Because obviously the corresponding lie, which was heard here, was that the DSA sold for a few millions. The few millions from the cancellation of the contract are on net net of direct payments of about 235, but on substance, with the previous contract you had locked up, we would pay them with the rights they had in natural gas. That was the reality. We canceled a contract for the ELCAF that would pay the Greek State and now it's at 535 million. And I want to say one more thing. Is there a big talk: are we about free competition or not? This is where you're literally offended. Half of them come out and say 'negally there is a auction to compete in energy production' and the other half tell us that we are against free competition. I don't understand what you think. Let us tell you who we are clearly against. We do not believe in private monopolies like OSTH was appointed by your own MPs in Thessaloniki. We also do not believe in companies that are monopolies and are financed by offshore secretly, because we do not have that, but you seem to have the wider family. We also believe in entrepreneurialism, which means "outside" where its funds come from. You don't apply it. We also believe in a entrepreneurship that has loans for all rather than "air" loans for a few publishers you have given and said so within the Committee of Parliament. Of course, we are also in favour of the entrepreneurship that pays its loans, not like the owner of "Greek Chania" who never paid them while he was a government official. This is the entrepreneurship that we want, an equal, fair entrepreneurship, because real, free competition is an equal part of a fair society. That is what this government has undertaken to do, and that is what it is doing, by applying difficult judgments of the European Court of Justice for which we are not responsible, no matter what you say. I would like to close with something that I am dedicating again to Mr Dendia, who has come here and told us how we will manage the problems created by the polls and the assessment of our electoral rate. We have learned, ladies and gentlemen, to disprove the gollops, and this has been seen in all the last elections. But I know something. We have taken a mandate from society to get out of the programme and implement it in full. We have the possibility and we will achieve confirmation of this policy as SYRIZA, as a single SYRIZA in the next elections. Because we are going to go down uniformly in the next elections. The question I ask Mr Teddy and all the members of the New Democracy is as follows. The New Democracy in how many pieces will come down to the next election? Because from the newspapers in your area, we're learning more. At least three so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, too. Mr. Theocratic from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, please speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u90	There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u91	There is, Mr President, why he referred to my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u92	There isn't. A reference was made to the opinion you expressed as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u93	There is, and I'll explain it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u94	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u95	How is there no staff if you didn't hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u96	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u97	Hey, you're not listening! I say, Mr President, that the Minister referred to my words in a way that distorted them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u98	Well, you can take two minutes after the dentistry to tell what your staff consists of.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u99	Not after that, Mr President, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u100	But there's no personal. He made a criticism of the opinions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u101	I'll judge whether there's any staff or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u102	Are you going to judge this? Really?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u103	But if you don't finally hear how you're gonna judge it? Without listening to the explanations, can you judge whether it has distorted or not? You don't listen to me, you decide without listening. Do you want to hear or not? So terrible is it that the Vice-President should speak for two minutes about what the Minister said? Is that a problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u104	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, first of all there is really no shame in anyone coming here and talking about take news when this man comes from SYRIZA. What did the Minister say here? He said we lied they didn't have a plan for the energy. But the dialogue on energy started a month ago. How can they have a plan for energy when the dialogue began four years after they rule the country? So he's disgusting himself. Secondly, he said that the previous government’s choice of RES was a ‘supplier’ option. To agree with his acting Minister, the above, because the Minister himself celebrated before that Greece has captured the targets as far as RES energy production is concerned. Tell us if it was a bubble or if it was a right choice. Thirdly, it is a huge lie that solved the Mediterranean problem. The Mediterranean problem was solved in 2014 by the previous government. The previous gentlemen have been delayed by the current Minister to sign the environmental impact study, and as a result the deadline has passed for an update, which he signed some time ago, and of course nothing has been done about the Mediterranean. And also, as far as PPC hydroelectrics are concerned, I forgive him because of his ignorance of the matter. We have no wishful desire. What we want is a strong PPC so that it can ensure the country's energy security and free competition, to have low energy prices. However, Mr Stathakis has still not answered whether, in the last teleconferencing conference, the troika was asked to have NOME, that is, energy competitions based on hydroelectric power. That and nothing else. The lies are over!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Theocratic has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, please give me the floor, because I have to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u108	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, I am pleased that there is no personal evidence, but for three things that have been heard I want to answer. Firstly, do we not have energy planning or not? No, we just have...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u110	You don't have one. You're diagraming. Did the dialogue end?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Screka, I have not interrupted you. So there has been a public debate with a recommendation from both Ministers and the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u112	Without ending up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u113	So we have not just a plan, but we also have the opportunity to consult Parliament and society about this project and it is...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u114	All right, bring it in.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Screka, what is this now? Hyper-personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u116	...the 2020-2030 plan to make it clear. Second matter. Was the policy of renewable energies finally a bubble? Look, the overcharge of the special account has proved that. Without money, you made promises and even a priority for the productive investment of the RES. You want proof? The percentage of PPC RENEWABLEs we received from you was about 2%-3% of the output of renewable energy sources in Greece. So where's the design, where was it then?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u117	And how much did you do it for four years now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Screka, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u119	I'll talk to you later in secondary school.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u120	Third and last. I understand that especially in your constituency, it is very important that the self-government even welcomes us, because we have solved the question of the Mediterranean and the issue of local barriers there and of the water balance. We won't be sad about your problem, Mr. Screka. We want the country's good, and that's what we're serving.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Theocratic has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u123	It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u124	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u125	Not for a second, no. It's not a coffee shop in Trikala.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u126	But he's been personally mentioned. I'll tell my dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Theocratic has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, let us make it clear that PPC remains in public character and the strong player in the energy sector. Neither closes nor privatises PPC. What's going on? We talked about it, we need to talk about it again, so it's clear and not the street-fake news. They are disinvested, privatised three units and a licence and these, following a decision by the European Court of Justice, which our institutions, our lenders, have put into the second assessment. What does he prove for that reason true? That during the first three years the government's plan was another. We canceled the "little" PPC, canceled Samara - Venizelos, canceled the privatisation of 30% of PPC and went by law for the obligations PPC had to do. We weren't talking about privatizations or units. What has changed and today are we talking about privatising specific units in Megalopoli and Meliti? It changed that the ruling of the European Court of Justice was finalised at the end of 2016 and in 2017, the institutions, our lenders, put it as a prerequisite for the second assessment. It turns out, in practice, that we were differentiated from the Samara - Venizelos government, because in the first three years we had a different government plan and what changed was the decision of the European Court of Justice. On the contrary, without a ruling of the European Court of Justice, what has the Samara - Venizelos government agreed and voted on? They have also been said by colleagues and by ministers, but we have to talk about them, so that we can make it quite clear. Privatisation of IPTO. The networks don't go to have as many units as you want, if the private person controls the networks, holds the energy sector in the country. Let the citizens who listen to us think what is more important. For me - and I put it - the fact that the networks remain in the public domain is very important, as is hydroelectric plants. It was and remains our struggle and the hydroelectric plants remain in public character, why? Because they produce electricity without at all any cost and unrelentingly, with sustainability. What, then, did the “little PPC” anticipate? It provided for 30% horizontal privatisation, that is, hydroelectric and natural gas and lignites and the assets, but also IPTO, that we should not forget it, and that we should not forget the hostile statements from time to time - and I said so again - of the Chief of Police for Pensioners and Workers in PPC. Today he avoided it, but at times his hostile attitude was constant. In our negotiation and after the ruling of the European Court of Justice, we are only talking about lignite potential, which is first 10-15% and then, as long as the old units are withdrawn, they will reach 35-40%. That is what has been said, I will not insist. I will give some answers to what the rapporteur of the New Democracy said, which I saw was repeated by the Chief of the New Democracy of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. It's down, says, 80% of PPC's share value on SYRIZA. That's untrue, to be polite, make news, lie. 50% of this 80% was reduced by the end of 2014. It was reduced in 2014 in the New Democracy. The large, rapid and vertical fall of PPC's share took place in 2014. They can't come and count since June 2014 and load their own cut. It is unacceptable and I was negatively surprised to hear it from Mr Mitsotakis as well. We have a positive rally - not to look at it, Minister - of PPC's stock in recent months, which proves that PPC is stepping on its feet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u129	Here we are left, Mr. Dendias said, and we can't talk about the Stock Exchange.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u130	I didn't mean to hurt you, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u131	With regard to the worlds, mentioned by Mr Maniotis, I will only say that the world has something to do with jewelry. It's something nice, something beautiful. So their world collapsed miserably and it turns out that he might have been well-groomed outside, but he was rotten. All of our fellow citizens know that. I, too, welcome the SYRIZA and ANEL parliamentary group, but especially the Members of Western Macedonia and Arcadia, the legislative improvements concerning labour, the environment and the lignite ending. I'll say a few words about each other. With regard to the lignite ending, it was very important, Mr Minister, that came out of the 'particularly' and we are now talking only about infrastructure, development and the environment. I want it to be recorded in the Minutes, because it really is the ministerial decision that will be adopted - here we are - must have strict criteria and conditions for how these will be granted, to talk about local resource for sustainable development and to demonstrate that our strategic plan in the energy sector in the post-living period falls within the framework of sustainable development. I also welcome the announcements made just now by the Deputy Minister, Mr Famelou, on the Fair Transfer Fund, but also on the Lignite Fund, to which the Minister, Mr Stathakis, referred, had also been mentioned by the auctions of the rights of carbon dioxide. So, apart from the lignite fee, EUR 1.4 per MWh, and the Fair Transfer Fund, which will be both a European pillar and a Greek one. That's very important. They are recorded and left to see them then, to build the post-Ligninist period on the energy future and the development future, especially those regions affected by PPC's lignite action. The safeguarding of industrial relations is very important and the legislative improvements made are very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u132	All right, put on a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u133	I will not be late, Mr President. I ask for your tolerance a little, because of the particular sensitivity that exists, because of the region. I repeat, Minister, that many contractors are not in our political plan. This must be taken seriously, because jobs will be created, and more will be paid to PPC and workers will be paid, as labour law stipulates. Environmental commitments are very serious and the private will commit and pay the lignite fee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Sanctuary, time has come to an end long ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u135	Yes, give me a minute, Mr President, and I'll be done. In closing the current issues relating to our regions - I quote, for example, the completion of the relocation of Podtokomi, the Anargyra, the Akrini and the openness with Mavrupi - we are entering a genuinely sustainable development plan. To remind you of the definition that John Rolls had given of what sustainability and sustainability means, it should be the lignite sight of our regions that has already been exploited since the '50s-60s, when it started to happen...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u136	Time's up, Mr. The Guardian. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u137	...and future generations take advantage of it positively. None of this would have happened and we would have talked about privatisation if the country had not fallen on the rocks under the responsibility of the New Democracy and PASOK. Nevertheless, we keep her standing in such a difficult negotiation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u138	Mr Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. I listened very carefully to the President of the New Democracy. He spoke a lot of time. I was trying to hear a word about climate change. I didn't hear anyone. If I'm wrong, fix me. The issue of environmental pollution, the greenhouse effect, polluting gases are global issues. And if you ask me, it is too late for the planet to become aware of this issue. The Paris Summit is coming too late. There are still countries which do not adopt the decisions. With many objections, the United States does not accept what was done in Paris. I would like to say, therefore, to the Chief of Officerial Reconciliation that recently - our country has not had it before or had it very little - the desertification of Africa has resulted in dust from dryness and increased temperature to affect us directly. If he doesn't know, someone's gonna have to tell him. From this position, it should first give the struggle for this new reality. This dust is in danger of drowning us. And that's the least. Does the word "carbon dioxide" mean anything to anyone? Emissions of this gas are one of the causes of the greenhouse effect, which is rising on the planet. What do I mean by that? First of all, I was caught by Mr. Famelos. He didn't let anything fall down. I was pleased, however, because all of his references were essential, as were the Minister who spoke yesterday. What do I mean? There are forty regions - for those who do not know it, learn it - in twelve European Union countries working with lignite. And they've taken the same margin by 2030. Let's finish this story. In fact, I'm not hiding you that a hundred and eighty-five thousand people are working. They should gradually be absorbed from somewhere else. Indeed, the lignite was cheap. But it belongs to the past. What can we do? It's not a viable coal economy. It's, you know, some areas that once should be done. It's over and out. And because I often hear incredible things, a paradox for the then, and a danger, etc., I would like to ask you: Where were you modern innovations, when the POS machines were introduced, what is actually hitting tax evasion? It's a 20-year-old conquest to connect the machinery to the Ministry of Economy. Have you heard of the electronic signature? Have you ever heard? Did you know? Electronic governance has entered into our lives. If you do not know that, this government that for three years now has been saying that it is a parenthesis - I think it will be the longest government and will go to four per cent - had implemented e-government, which is a 20-year conquest in all the countries of the European Union at more than 25%. Have you gotten it? I come back to what concerns us today. Indeed, it's the lignite in the past. This transition must be carried out in a proper way. Jobs and local communities must be guaranteed. The previous Member who spoke is from Kosani. He should have a very big sensitivity, he should come here and start saying. I know, because I've seen them too. They've grown up with Ptolemais. I also heard the Conservative of Florina and I heard MPs from Arcadia. What can we do? It is a conversion that needs to be done and must be done in a proper way so that the workers do not pay it. I was pleased that the Minister was committed to the status of workers, the laws governing it, the new companies, the 1.2, which became 1.4. He told you all that. What do I mean? It is something that needs to be done and done in a proper way, to ensure the working justice of these people and the societies, which were the ones who accepted this kind of energy. The energy - I believe - design is at doorways. I would like to say, without eating too much time, that the workers' assurances are given. Someone who's well-qualified sees this thing and not just six years. I believe later. But I want to remind you of a few other things, because I see incredible paradoxology and danger. The ten-year bonds have fallen - where are they stuck? This is where they stick - below 4%. I would like to remind you that Portugal today is borrowing with 1.8%. Five months before she came out of the memorandum her ten-year bonds were around 5.5%. I would also like to remind you that the surplus, which is a huge negotiating paper at the moment for the government, with ELSTAT's official stack, was at 4.2%. I would also like to remind you that banks' stress tests - and no one did us a favour - went very well in terms of liquidity. I could also refer to other very many global parameters that enable this government to negotiate on the substance of Varna, perhaps shortly after that. In no case, however, will there be any other solution than a clear exit from this memorandum, for which no one triumphants, and from the Memorandum of August. Some people don't know why they're seeing this thing negatively, because for the country it's good. I should like to end by saying this: I am sorry to say this, but the port, the despair of the despair of the despaired, is pastology and danger. Let them think about it, because we are waiting for proposals here, not this misery that has become their second nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Nzimanis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill refers to the process of disinvestment of PPC, which emerged after a European Court of Justice ruling at the end of 2016 and entered the second assessment. In this decision PPC was convicted of a dominant position in access to lignite mines. The decision provided for the deinvestment of 40% of PPC's lignite potential. Thus, today PPC maintains 78.6% of its lignite potential and 90.9% of its total production potential. The agreement we have reached concerns only the disinvestment of lignite plants and the maintenance of entire hydroelectric potential and of all natural gas plants. The Government of Samaras - Venizelos had legislated the "small" PPC, which provided for the sale of 22% of its total production potential, 21.4% of its current lignite potential, 18% of the current natural gas potential and 26.3% of its current hydroelectric potential, as well as the sale of IPTO and 17% of PPC. The law on "little" PPC canceled him in the first half of our government, as it had planned and decided on the energy map by the previous government. We kept 51% of IPTO in the public sector and avoided direct privatisation of 17% of PPC, which we supported and aim to be the main energy-generating pillar in the country. PPC's production base remains intact, with the sole exception of the part of the lignite plants, in which there will be a gradual disinvestment, as part of the company's strategic plan to shift to RES, which is also a national target for the energy mix. PPC will continue to control 68% of lignite capacity in the long term, and in the long term PPC will maintain 65%, finally reaching the target of deinvestment of 40%. This draft law creates two new private companies, which are explicitly bound by the law to have an obligation to supply the thermal energy cities and settlements for the operation of the district heating. In addition to this, Article 4 of the draft law applies to collective agreements and to the conditions of Presidential Decree 178/2002 on the maintenance of workers' rights in the event of the transfer of undertakings or parts thereof. Also, for six years new companies will not be able to make redundancies. With regard to the local resource, 1-1-2019 is imposed for the regions of Western Macedonia and Peloponnese at the expense of all lignite power generators, a special fee of EUR 1.4 per MWh. The funds resulting from the levying of this fee will be used exclusively for the financing of infrastructure, development and environmental protection and relocation of the settlements of the Arcadia, Florina and Kozani districts. Of course, this will be strengthened, as mentioned above, by the Fair Transfer Fund and the resources from the carbon dioxide fines. Speaking of the Region of Western Macedonia, I must mention that with PPC's long-term presence it has suffered an environmental burden for decades, without a substantial return compared to the problems it has suffered. The great challenge is the next day: What money, what development plan and what procedures will there be for transition to the post-lining period. This is a very big issue and includes the restoration and recovery of rehabilitated areas. In this respect, our Government has taken a step forward in relation to the past with legislation, namely that mines must comply with the same restoration rules, but that is not enough. Because here we're talking about something much more important, much bigger. There is a need for considerable investment, as we see many examples in Europe, which transforms corresponding sites into attractions for activities. Rehabilitation and resettlement of land along with sustainable development is a strategic objective for the region. A serious local development programme is therefore needed, which will create jobs and contribute to the smooth transition of the region to the post-liner period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, too. Mr. Dimitriadis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we made a commitment in the summer of 2015 and in the September elections. On energy issues, there was a hypothetical situation where everything had already been privatised, and we were committed to doing everything we can to protect the public interest. I am pleased that we have achieved quite a lot of it, especially in three areas, where we have prevented the privatisation of country's emblems in energy, such as PPC, IPTO and IPTO. More specifically, for IPTO, which was embedded at the Public Power Corporation at the time, we not only prevented the sale of 66% to private individuals at a low price, but we managed to achieve a very high price, keeping the public character and making only 24% of IPTO for sale. As far as the Public Power Corporation was concerned, 17% of the company had already been transferred to the company for divestment, the "small" PPC law had already been passed, where by 30% and horizontally and with more water, hydroelectrically, the basket was given to the private sector. The main thing is that the complete fragmentation and divestment of the Public Power Corporation was planned, precisely because that was - as colleagues in this Chamber have already said - their strategic plan, that is, many small, vertical enterprises, free competition and the related ones. At the same time, all this happened in an almost bankruptcy scheme of the company itself. In short, two policies conflicted. On the one hand, it was the policy of protecting public wealth and public space, and on the other it was the transfer of this to the hands of some. So we are very pleased that, firstly, we prevented that. This bill, of course, is about separating two assets of the single, strong and public electricity company because of a final decision of the European Union. With the deposit of the bill, our condemnation and our obligation to do so has already been lifted. What fields are this bill? The lignite fields in the country are three, three counties actually, Florina, Kozani and Arcadia. This bill talks about separating two fields, one in the north and one in the south. The first one is Melite's. Melite, which is indeed a good unit, has very modest yields, despite the downward downside, precisely because it is powered by the private lignite production sector. And it is not only fuelled by the private sector, but it is also fuelled by very distorting contracts, at the end of the public interest, precisely because the prices paid for Meliti ultimately relate to the Public Power Corporation. And such prices are indeed, but it is not Meliti's, which I repeat is being fed by the private sector. The obligation on this particular issue of future investors to open up new mines also gives jobs and investments to an area that is extremely needy and at the same time relieves the Public Power Corporation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Megalopolis, in the southern part, is going to close in two, three years anyway. We have heard the President of PPC tell us that he may also close next year, precisely because it has closed its cycle. So, indeed, there's a good unit left, 4. Only in the southern system we also have a distortion concerning the Peloponnese cable. While the Public Power Corporation has invested in natural gas - plant 820 MW - it cannot be marketed, precisely because the cable is not enough. The third field, which is also the main lignite field and the main field of electricity production in the country, is our purely own field, which concerns my prefecture, the Kozani Prefecture. It's about Ptolemais 5 we're building now. Our government has also obtained the permission and found the funding for it, that is, it has helped to finance it. It is about the main field, the mine, which is called - it is about seven settlements that will allow me to mention to them, which have been relocated, to open up this public field. It is the Heart, the Harris, the Klitos, the Patron, the Komanos, the Mavropigi, the Pontokome, and the Anargyroes and the Akriny are on the table. This is the single public sector, in which only EUR 1.7 billion of GDP has been invested by our own government. This is our practical position as to what our plan is to support Greek production at the level already agreed by us is. At the same time, we have ensured through this agreement in Amydino and its lignite centre the possibility of making use - if possible - and being excluded from the rule - either the denominator or the numerator - rather than closing, as has been planned for a decade. We therefore supported the Public Power Corporation by giving a liquidity injection of EUR 1.3 billion only for 2017. Mr President, you will allow me to continue a little longer because it concerns my region.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u144	But you had to start earlier on for your area! Come on, hurry up!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u145	I shall proceed, Mr President. With this bill we have an end of time, the evaluation closes and we go to new data on both energy and lignite energy in our country. This end of time requires the protection of three specific rights, which I shall mention very quickly, because I am well over time: it is the protection of the work and the rights arising therefrom, which we have already secured from the debate in our committee. It is the protection of local rights and the local resource, which we have secured, and we have taken it from EUR 1.2 to EUR 1.4. It is the Fair Transfer Fund, which the Secretary of State just now told us that we also have a Greek Environment Fund with 20 million euros. We have rights to the environment, the protection of this and the restoration of it. We are defending these unreservedly and we will maintain this version.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Dimitriadis, please put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u147	In the new era we are entering, it is true that the debate on the strategy for the restoration of lignite soils and their return to them is a real one. It is also the Environmental Restoration Strategy Fund in relation to the Fair Transfer Fund. Finally, it is also the strategic plan for equivalent development, at least, for what we have lost. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this: I have listened carefully to the positions of the New Democracy by the mouth of the Chief of Staff. It was clear: complete liberalisation with a strong RAE - I copy what I have heard - investment in RES and a reduction in electricity prices. I didn't hear anything about the lignite. We know - and we have all seen this in this process - that the New Democracy, like the PASOK, is against this bill because it prevents its own plan that was full privatisation and that is all. So we are pleased that we have closed well above our 2015 commitments, we have publicly kept PPC and IPTO and proceed to our development planning with the guaranteed rights of workers, local communities and the people, with the pillars of public wealth and space undisturbed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u148	So do we. Mr Karathanasopoulos, the Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u149	A pity attempt was admittedly made to appear - and in particular, it was said by the PASOK Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Maniotis - that there are two conflicting worlds here. In this sense of the conflict between the two worlds, there were positions of both the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis, but also of the Government and Minister. Where does it turn out that two worlds conflict? That is the main question. What's this dividing line? What separates you? Does it separate you from the main question of whether the energy is a commodity? Oh, no. For all of you, energy is a commodity. So which two worlds are conflicting? Two worlds would collide if we had a logic that said that "we are with energy - social good and you are with energy - commodity". Then let me get this straight. But once you agree with the objective, in the strategy that energy is a commodity, two worlds do not conflict. One of this. Do you disagree that these parties - government and opposition - should become an energy hub? You agree. Is this a strategic choice of the urban order to turn Greece into an energy hub? Who does this serve? Does it serve the people's interests to have energy security, to have cheap currents or the interests of capitalists, business groups to be active? Does this involvement create risks in the energy hub case for the territorial integrity of our country and the manifestation of warfare? Sure. Why? Because the contradictions in the wider region are exacerbated, on the grounds of how the energy reserves of the region will be shared and what routes they will be created. This is where great imperialist forces clash. This conflict also takes military form. So Greece is becoming increasingly involved in these competitions, in these dangers, and much more that it is becoming a protectorate of the Americans on the substance, in a signatory to the Americans, in order to implement the American-Atlantic designs. So you also agree on the second point. Thirdly, does one of these parties disagree with the strategic choice that energy should also be promoted in the European Union's energy market liberalisation policy? No, you don't disagree. You agree. So who are these two conflicting worlds? You're with the same world. Just what do you disagree with? It is understandable that there are differences of this kind. In what forms will this liberalisation proceed, in what forms will privatisation become or what individual business interests will be served more or less by this path of liberalisation of the electricity market? For that very reason, there was a very big quarrel about who is making the best privatisations - whether the New Democracy is doing or is doing it by the current government - and in the field of energy. That's why there was a great debate about who is the best manager of a class anti-linguistic policy, to get credit from the bourgeoisie that it literally applies the policy that serves the interests of monopolistic groups and capital. So that's your problem. Because on the basis of the same strategy, on the same track, you move on the tracks of policy, which meets the needs of capital. In this respect, today's bill takes another step in the liberalisation of the electricity market. It is therefore a pretext for the court to decide. No, it's a step further. From this point of view, therefore, it is clear that liberalisation of the electricity market is not something recent, something that has come to our country with the memoranda. On the contrary, it has been one of the European Union's main choices since the mid-1990s, at a different rate in all the Member States of the European Union, which is also applied in our country. So there is accumulated experience to show what the results are in practice of this political liberalisation of the energy market. Of course, this choice was made precisely because there were huge overcompensated funds, which had to be developed in new areas to invest these new areas of guaranteed profitability for these overcompensated funds. These areas were infrastructure, transport, telecommunications, actions, which is why all the previous route with "OLYMPIAKI" has been followed by OTE, with PPC and goes by saying a series, with ports, airports, so that we don't forget the others. Otherwise, let us see what the consequences of the liberalisation of the electricity market are. Does liberation have an impact on energy planning? Of course, because energy planning is determined on the basis of the interests of business groups, which operate either in the production sector or in the electricity distribution and disposal sectors. On the basis of these interests, energy planning is defined, so energy adequacy is also being established. Secondly, does it have an impact on the country's energy mix? Of course it has an impact and we've seen it. While Greece is very rich in sources of electricity production, it does not exploit all of these sources. On the contrary, we have resorted with a specific choice in importing fuel, in natural gas, because it is precisely because the depreciation of investments is made much faster and this profitability is guaranteed. So what was this liberalisation of electricity? It has resulted in greater energy dependence. Thirdly, has liberation had an impact on the country's energy security? Of course we see it every day. Not only are the networks not being maintained and they are not being developed, because the networks have huge costs, so this in the name of capitalist profitability cannot be lifted by any business group, but, secondly, we see that it does not exploit all the sources that, if used, Greece would have energy proficiency and, indeed, it would also export and much more, it is very often resorting to imports of electricity from third countries. In fact, in this process, the current government is making it easier for the energy stock exchange. Fourth impact: Did it affect workers in the energy sector? Dramatic effects. Half of the workers were reduced in stable forms of employment, with full working relationships and full hours in the PPC sector. It's down to half. We have had wage cuts, we have had an intensification of workers' work with overturns in labour relations and in their insurance. In fact, in this context, the conditions were laid down to have multi-speed workers under the public PPC, under the state control of PPC, which will, of course, be active and operated in the name of the armoring of its profitability. And from this point of view, the hired workers are the most tragic form, which not only shrinks, but four years that you are government, continues, maintains and expands even more and especially in the heaviest forms, in the mines. Secondly, we have the contractual workers in the hostage who, of course, do not have the same rights as those who have a stable job. And this policy, the SYRIZA Government - ANEL four years now, continues and implements it. Not only does it take no action, but on the contrary it gets worse. The government claims that it takes measures to protect the workers of the two businesses to be created. Can we look at the measures a little more specifically, Minister? You say that these measures will apply for six years. Of course, a large number is also on the limit of retirement age and will leave. So it's for very few of them. Secondly, the question is how many. It will not be for the whole, because it seems that a small part of the jobs employed will be transferred to the new companies, which are being created. Because he's talking about surplus personnel. Who will determine whether they are surplus? Will he be transferred to PPC? Thank you so much! But on what criterion? On the basis of the competitiveness of the new structures, which also produces a key indicator of competitiveness, the so-called labour cost is what you consider to be. So, if these enterprises are to be attracted, they will have a very small proportion of stable employment and full work and wage rights. Don't hide behind our finger. This is why, and today PPC says that it will absorb surplus personnel into subsidiaries or other sectors of PPC, or proceed to voluntary programmes. Secondly, you say that those who will be for the next six years ensure that the collective agreement ensures them. Really, how long will the collective agreement take place if it is signed, Minister? For two or three years?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u150	For three years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u151	Because PPC wants the administration to be for two years. So it will be true for two or three years. Let me get your answer. For the next three years, what will he do? Will they have a new contract, which will sign the unions that will remain? And is it true that staff who may be employed with a fixed employment in the new companies will have the same collective agreements or will, as has been done by other privatised enterprises that did not cover this staff and sign individual contracts or operational contracts, do they? So there is differentiation, even under the same conditions. And that's where you're taking no care at all. Like, you also say what? That the working regulations will be defined in the new companies. Indeed, does the working regulation not affect harmful or positive - let us also take this view - the working conditions? It affects them. Health and safety conditions? It affects them. So does it have an indirect effect on wage costs to intensify any labour? It's got an impact. That is why the working regulation also plays an important role, Minister, and that is what you allow young investors to agree on. And the fifth parameter, which has dramatic repercussions, is on electricity tariffs. They draw the up-and-a-half rate in both Greece and the rest of the European Union, despite the new technologies that they are going through, despite the new sources that are being exploited, which should be much cheaper. For the people's layers, however, it is extremely expensive. That is why 30% of the people's households are facing energy poverty. And of course, you and the previous ones support the interests of business groups who want to enter those sectors of the economy. The above provided scandalous security prices for RES power providers in wind and photovoltaics. Scandinavian prices to secure their profits! They gave birth to these alleged or actual investments, but they were far above the cost. So these businessmen put a penny in the pocket, too. You proceeded with NOMEs to the same logic of State aid, or now with Megalopolis you say that there is no network. Indeed, since you believe in competition, why don't you let Megalopolis grow in full progress and its competitors, in terms of individuals, play ball as well and you say that up to 500KW? As far as energy security is concerned, there is something else we can do here. We have said so in our position in committee, Minister. There is a risk of rapidly depleting lignite stocks. Just because the businessman, who will invest, is not going to see his full exploitation, but he will look to see the deposits that have a higher degree of thermal efficiency and he will give up the rest. Therefore, they will remain unexploited, with the risk that a valuable resource will be lost from this criminal exploitation of the deposits. So the two worlds that we can say are confronted in substance are the world and the political forces that see energy as a commodity and these political forces, that is, the JRC, which sees energy as a social asset. Because only in this way will we be able to answer the question and the huge contradiction that you cannot answer: While there are so many sources, at least, in the electricity sector, to have high electricity production, people can very cheaply enjoy electricity, heating and export, instead of being in energy poverty. Why, then, does this treaty not exist? Because that's where the issue of capitalist profit comes in.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u152	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u153	I shall conclude, Mr President. The others spoke a lot longer. In thirty seconds, I'll finish. You have a little patience. So, if we do not conflict with this logic, there will be no result, in our view, and we say so clearly. From this point of view we say that it is not a question of competence to implement a deep anti-grassrooted, class policy or correct and wrong planning. It's a class choice. So the conflict must be specific, of course, not to extend the policy of liberation with the privatisations you are planning to curtail PPC, because it will be harmful to workers and the populace. At the same time, this struggle, this struggle must target the real opponent, namely, the power of the bourgeoisie and the assumption that business groups are going to be doing business. If they do not aim at the real enemies, there will be no result either in today's struggle. From this point of view, it is clear that we are voting against. I would like to refer very briefly to an amendment to which we shall be voting 'at present'. It's about the Civilian Ministry in relation to firefighters. The hostage's continuing. Look, there's need here for five thousand sixty-six people, who he proclaimed. At the moment, the five-year term of firefighters, who have no right to permanently be in the Fire Corps plus the thousands of two hundred seventy seasons, make us a smaller number. So you could use this world you are saying - so the Minister says in the explanatory statement - that they have valuable experience and should not be lost. So why do you only extend them for two years the contract and then they'll be fired, throw them on the road?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u154	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u155	So remove that they will be fired afterwards, so that we can vote on this amendment. Otherwise we shall vote'representations', Minister, on this amendment which you have brought.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u156	However, where we all agree, we shall vote at 3.30 p.m. Mr Stavros Theodorakis, President of the Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u157	PPC is probably the mirror of the country. And the positive and the negative. It's the economic miracle of the '50s. The company that brought the electricity, thus culture and the most remote village in the country. The smoked miners, the airline of PPC, the grey villages of Ptolemais, the figurines in Megalopolis, Greece, that is, Greece, which fought at those times against adverse conditions. But PPC is not just the light. It is also the darkness of the bankrupt Greece, the client state, the guilds, the downhill switches, the party ruptures, the disrespect in the environment, the absence of contact with the future. And that's PPC. There is no sin of the country, which does not have its mirror in PPC, with the result that the Public Power Corporation in a world that is changing rapidly to stay behind, to be deceived, to lose ground, obsessed with lignite. But - and note, ladies and gentlemen - not all public electricity companies in Europe made the same mistakes. What's going on with Portugal? Portugal's respective PPC, currently produces twice the energy from PPC, has twenty-three times the capitalisation of PPC and annual profits of 1 billion. I mean, only her profits are more than our capitalisation. And something that hurts more, be careful. Portuguese PPC produces 1/3 of energy from renewable sources, while our PPC, in the sun and air, produces only 0.8! And to think that forty years ago PPC in Kythnos built the first wind park in Europe. And yet this first was wasted and thrown into the trash. Today, in 2018, at a time when lignite is being persecuted in the European Union, PPC is perhaps the only energy company in Europe, which invests so much in lignite. It is interesting - I do not know if you have noticed it - that the eruption of PPC President at an ECONOMIST conference, I think, last year. PPC President - who was then president of PPC - said: "If you ask me strictly business, it is not profitable to subsidise such investments." Instead of giving EUR 1.5 billion for Ptolemais 5, we would give half the money and we would be equal, perhaps even more, power and much faster in a natural gas unit. Unfortunately, things became much worse than Mr Panayotakis estimated in 2016. The cost of pollutants has increased significantly, while the cost of competitive technologies is constantly falling. You would know that recently a private person announced that it would produce the gas, which Ptolemais will produce 5. By what difference? His gas unit will cost 300m euros, while Ptolemais 5, as you know and which you have approved, will cost 1.5m euros. Ladies and gentlemen, the values of the rights of pollutants are escalated day after day. What does that mean? What is this differentiation and what does it mean? Let's see first of all differentiation: In 2017, i.e. almost a year ago, the tone was about 5 euros. I'm talking about the pollutants. It is currently at EUR 14 per tonne while it is estimated that 10 years in depth and by 2030 it will reach 30 euros. This price ejection occurred, as you know, because the European Union in February has decided an even more stringent framework for the fight against pollutants, and that will be the way. That's how we're going. Greece cannot continue to fight trenches. We must also consider the interests of future generations. In Europe's plan to move to a coal-free economy there is a lot of money. There is a special fund to support local societies that are now dependent on lignite. Here the government should have its plan, mobilise, raise resources and finance sustainable investments that will create new jobs in the affected local economies. SYRIZA - ANEL, however, also in the case of PPC, prove that they are only pressing in the past. I will only mention two examples. With the immunity offered in 2015 by Mr. Skourletis to all who did not want to pay PPC, the due debts were spread and the company’s liquidity deteriorated dramatically, while in addition to the delays and constant postponements in the liberalisation of the energy market, you further tightened the truce around PPC. But the memorandum is clear. You are committed and, if you wish, we are committed as a country that by 2020 PPC's retail share must have fallen below 50%. This is the harsh truth that you are avoiding, that is, that the sale of lignite plants, although it is done - because there is a question mark here - is not the end. There will be continuity and will be forced by the country “with the back on the wall” to sell a clientele, hydroelectric or both. Ladies and gentlemen, lignite plants are sold at least three years late, and this huge delay has huge costs for PPC, but also for consumers. PPC’s lignite plants lost much of their commercial value over time. This means that today it will be collected - if it will be collected - PPC will have a much lower price. One would have thought that the government majority would have learned a lesson from the "TRAINOSE" fiasco, but finally I fear that the "TRAINOSE" model is evolving into a SYRIZA ANEL model, that is, "I refuse, I delay, I sabotage, I defer, I deceive, and at the end I sell as much as -". Potami has tabled a concrete, comprehensive proposal to modernise PPC, to change the energy mix with profits and the environment and the national economy, as well as liberalisation - we are not afraid to say the word - of the energy market for the benefit of consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, in Potami and the Change Movement we say that the country must stop hiding the problems 'under the carpet' and in our case 'under the lignite'. The problems that are not solved do not disappear, but become bigger, and then we need more painful solutions. This is where we are today. Today's bill does not provide solutions. He's postponing the solutions. We are therefore voting against your proposal. We refuse another postponement and another lost three years, because the lights are shaking. PPC does not need new switches. It needs a radical relocation to the energy map, without the blockages of state-of-the-art coalition and the burdens of the client party state, which - unfortunately for the country - have found new defenders in the SYRIZA - ANEL system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u158	Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u159	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The bill on privatization of PPC is being discussed before us, or rather on the completion of PPC's privatisation. PPC started by John Ziggis. He founded PPC. It is good to remember that Ioannis Ziggis founded PPC and that PPC before Ziggis existed in the form of companies in various parts of electricity generation, which were legally incorporated and incorporated into PPC, which was founded on the Minister of Ioannis Ziggis. So, then, there was an ambitious plan: this company would solve the country's energy problem, give solutions and be a healthy company, because it would also be a monopoly company. He had no obstacle in front of her. But there was one obstacle to trying to be healthy and to advance this company: a corrupt political system. That's the obstacle he's got. And, of course, her founder was unable to predict that PPC would be used to such an extent that the various people would vote. He couldn't see that before. So we've been there slowly to the big deficits, to the increases. Some parties provoked privatisation - including today's ruling party which condemned privatisation - and the right parties said, 'the energy must be released', 'is the time to sell', 'is the time for partial sale', 'to enter the Stock Exchange in various ways'. Where have we finally arrived? We're back where we started. We came to leave the hands of the state, PPC, and to swear it and above, that it was bad, that it was the way of rosphite, which was not done on its own, as PPC is a lifeless thing. It was the inspiration of John Ziggis. The parties then and the governments used it for appointments, perhaps for stealing perhaps for many others, because PPC had large commissions annually, large sums. And so we arrived at the heroic end, at today's heroic end, where the party which just two, three years ago, assembled those who wanted to privatize it, is the party that privatizes it. It makes no sense now to discuss what we are going to vote on. The Centro Association will vote 'no' on such barbaric things, because we cannot forget what you said last year and what you say this year. You may be interested in the amnesia of yesterday, but we cannot follow you in such policies. You have come to accompany the bill with a few amendments. Traditionally put whatever's inside. One of the amendments says that there are necessary firefighters, because you did not have time - it says - to take permanent ones again, you will take a certain time of firefighters. That goes too. In this need, so that we do not have fires, let us have intakes, which you will see in the end - they will not save fires, because when there is no plan against fire, no matter how many intakes you can do, the fires will not save them. In another amendment you come and talk about evaluation. We're supposed to have dealt with the evaluation, supposedly within you has matured how to do the evaluation. You say, "One chief to assess another...". And who's gonna be the boss? Do you know him? It's gonna be yours, isn't it? I do not believe that you will be putting from the Centro ratings Union! That's natural! Therefore, those who will assess, the above and below, will be yours. Those who will be evaluated, and they are yours, why in public who have gone in? Syringes made right and symphony. Evaluators and evaluators therefore play a game against society. I have said since the first time I entered the House in September 2015 that the most honest public evaluation can be done by those who served by the public. If we want to evaluate an employee, we won't put the boss there, because there, in the small world of this department, they might have taken them. I'll talk to you. What should we do for evaluation? Get the customers, the world that was served by these people, and tell them: "Write confidentially, have you been served? Even if you gave it, give it, write it. You will not suffer...". So we'll have an image of the service. But we didn't. We put in chiefs and subordinates. Our heads, ours, ours and ours. However, there is no evaluation at all. And you come to this bill of PPC, which is a bill of shame, which is a confession of disgrace for the political system, to put an amendment to the evaluation. What's that? What about all the other things you did? What did you do? I have heard many discussions about the evaluation in this Chamber. This isn't the first time. The New Democracy says: 'No redundancies, but drastic cuts in public expenditure'. I don't understand that. This is ice cream and ground water on the armpits. They don't match both. When you don't make redundancies, you're going to keep this huge, inefficient state. How are you going to make a drastic reduction in public spending? "We'll cut off..." - says - "Others unnecessary." What are the unnecessaryities you're going to cut, and why didn't you cut them to the Samara government for three years? What prevented you? All that the current leader of the New Democracy has done is that he has put a few thousand people away. And I found them at 10 a.m. in the museums and other services that were smoking and reading a newspaper, and I said, "What are you doing here, all this world?" I thought it was a break to laugh. And they said to me: “We were made available by the UCLAF. They took us..." And I say to them, "Who did this?" "Mitsotakis," they answered. "We did something there at least. Here we will wait four years until we get our pension." It would be more honorable to tell them "outside" on certain terms. I think it is more honest than, "stop smoking and reading the newspaper." The examinations given by Kyriakos Mitsotakis to the Ministry that he has attended were not just a failure, but an examination that showed and a vote and a cathedral against the opponents and a complete lack of plan. There was no plan, because the purpose of availability was to reduce costs. Where did he cut costs? Tell me. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Then they say they found those who were with fake degrees. They still find themselves with fake degrees. You think the issue of fake diplomas in English, etc. has ended.Huh? Can you imagine it's over? They're still working in Omonia something underground and they're taking degrees. Don't doubt it. I want to say two words about the freshness, because Mr. Kouvelis came out, wanting to say news on a show, and he said that we came to an agreement on two frigates. Mr. Kammenos came yesterday and said there was no agreement on the wells. The French don't know anything. I'm sorry, can the government bring in a arms market without a CFD without a parliament? What's going on here? Do we have a juda? Only on the junction Pattacos remembered at night did it in the morning. Mr. Kouvelis, who was the party leader, does not know that, in order to order a rifle, decisions, documents and information from all parties must be mediated? I can't understand, that man went out to say his head or someone put him in order to expose him? Because of what they followed, they probably wanted to expose him. They gave him a tip and he was trapped. That's all I get. You say, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that August comes the end of the memorials and better alone where we will define ourselves, our policy. Better alone than through programs that we can take orders from Brussels. Better alone! Be careful, because there is one problem. We are now taking money at a very small interest rate, and there will be an interest rate, the interest rate to be set by the markets. Take note, then, that there is no second crime like that of Varoufakis, because for that crime of Varoufakis you did not apologise, nor did anyone be punished. Can the New Democracy blame you for disastrous politically, but do you not feel that there is one problem, that the country has been afflicted, that these have been costed at the expense of society, the movements of Varoufakis? Is the Prime Minister unresponsible for what Varoufakis did? Is that the cost, who's gonna pay for it? Varoufakis from his property or Tsipras from his property? I am afraid, therefore, that we will be faced with a second increase in expenditure from the difference in interest rates. For that reason, the other things that are written by the newspapers, that the Americans are trying to help us have a good solution to the debt, I have said, I have stressed and will say them again here to write: the only help we can get for the debt, is to prolong his payment and reduce the interest rates. Nothing else! Not one euro from nominal debt. Don't put this on at all, because you'll have a second round of delusion. To conclude with this issue, that Europeans will help you. The Americans, because they often like to cheat the governments here in the Balkans, to get the solution they want to Skopje, obviously promise a lot, without costing anything, to get you to hand over the name of Skopje. And then the Germans will say'reforms' and what we could say about debt, what we have always said, about payment and interest rate reductions. That is the package because they cannot make an exception for a state, because they do not think of us. Now they are thinking of the second or third in a row of states that can go bankrupt if it relaxes its economic policy. So, ladies and gentlemen, stop going back to the TVs and promise from August that heaven will come. You will succeed - it says - the tax free to reduce backwards, the pensions to cut further - how will you achieve this? - or you'll give something in the form of a social dividend. After you drained Greece from liquidity, after there was no money from the economy, you shared 300 and 200 euros and made Greece be you merciful and those who spread the hand to receive the tip. I would like to say two more words about the simple analogue, ladies and gentlemen, since I am given the opportunity, because I know that Tsipras will be informed. When I first met Tsipras about the simple analogue he said: "I want to make me simple analogue." I say to him: ‘The simple analogue requires zero bonus, to be explained. If you put even one MP bonus, I don't vote." He says to me: “No bonus. That's the right thing to do." I say to him: "For you to convince, however, because you have come out in bonuses - you are now ruling and perhaps you will take a year, with bonuses - that you love the simple analogue and that you are ready to grant power..." - because simple analogue is power concession, 25% of the people give you, 25% of the MPs, you will have - "... you will not steal from MPs". And then I said to him: "You must call every ministry before you bring the bills and bring them only consensually. And you must not vote again for a bill with a hundred and fifty-three. Achieve, two hundred, twenty-three. Then you'll convince that you love the simple analogue. Otherwise, you come now as a dictator and you promise to be just proportional in the future. Everyone can promise." Mr. Tsipras looked at me and he says: “You are right. Simple analogue means consensus, it means co-responsibility, it does not mean government. The word government is leaving the vocabulary and mentality and is coming into conflict.' But you didn't! All a hundred and fifty-three, I see. And consensus is always called for. And you're always right and everyone else is wrong. In this Chamber, all discussions are based on the same thing, that the government is right and is concerned and others are wrong. And they're thieves too. You sent ten to justice, that they were thieves. What consensus do you expect after that? You will tell me: 'If there is evidence that they were stolen, we should not hunt them for the sake of consensus, Mr Leventis?' I didn't say that. But you also did something else, without specific evidence: you have referred back to your handkerchiefs. Because if you have the evidence, why don't you produce them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u161	Do something else: In all televisions and especially in the state of ERT you do the following: One right and one Syrian. You go get a artificial two-party system that is now PASOK's position, you get it. So, bipartisan now is good why are you one of his poles? Bipartisanism is always the curse of democracy, it's the wound, the pathogen. I knew the Left is fighting bipartisanism. I didn't know he dreamed of being a spear axis that would cut society's rights. You don't claim left position today. You want to be dominators. That is why you lose the word 'left' - only in the inscription you have - as once lost by the pasoktziers who called'socialism' and the poor of 48.5% went to 4%. Now they're dreaming of 10%, but I'm afraid with their internal civilization, half to the right and half to the left, they'll stay at 4%. They like the number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u162	Mrs Maria Antonio has the floor from the New Democracy. Two other speakers will follow, which concludes the list of speakers and will be closed by the Minister, so that we can move on to the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, will there not be any seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u164	If you need and want to place yourself, it is good that, before the list is completed, the Bureau has one picture. It is a good request, however, that the seconds be brief, because we said that at 15: 30' the roll-call vote is a roll-call vote. Mrs. Antoniou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Famele, you mentioned before that the Chief of Police Vice-Population did not know that the debate on the post-lining region and climate change began. Let me tell you what you don't know. You don't know you've been ruling for four years. You forgot. Now you're starting the dialogue, you're saying. Yes, sir. By listening to the colleagues from western Macedonia, I share the view that they are having a hard time in the fucking ball, but rather, eventually, they will. So before I go to the essence of today's bill, which provides for the sale of 40% of PPC's lignite production, I would like to make a small, truly historic revert to what Mr Tsipras said about PPC. And I will do it again and again, after many colleagues, but the repetition of 'every learning'. In July 2014 in Amyntheos he told us that "the divestment plan of PPC, a strategic operation for the Greek economy and the highest importance for the security and energy self-sufficiency of the country, is a national crime to be prevented and prevented". In March of the same year at PPC's gas plant in Komotini, I would also present to you the minutes of the statements, he talked about "aircraft" investors and about new "black marketers" of modern times and warned them not to make plans far away. "The public wealth and the national strategic enterprises, such as PPC, will take them back and give them to the Greek people". [[At this point, the Member, Maria Antoniou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] In 2013, in a meeting with the employees at IPTO, he again warned that "those investors will come to speculate by buying pieces of Greek property and lose their money and be found accountable to justice". Now, who will find accountable to justice is another conversation. All that was said in the election, before power, in the streets that raised flags of populism by Mr. Tsipras. Today, of course, all the SYRIZA colleagues are trying to forget about it. But the Greek people do not forget them. Today, then, the SYRIZA - ANEL government is making exactly the opposite of the election promises. With this bill, not only does it sell PPC’s fillets, 40% of its lignite portfolio, but it does so in such a way that it damages both PPC and the public interest, and it also premiums the potential private investors, the "atonics" and "black marketers" you once said. Your election promise to not sell PPC was another delusion, was it a 'wrong promise', as Mr Kulloglu described, or was it, in the end, a political atrocity and deception of PPC's employees, just to plunder their vote? So let's see, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, what you're going to vote on today: First, you sell the most competitive part of PPC, the three lignite plants, which produce electricity at the lowest cost and even make them even more competitive, so more profitable for the potential investors, as not only take the wage costs away from the staff, but exempt them from all the loans that still bear the rest of PPC. Secondly, an unequal competition rule is created against PPC. PPC will now have more staff, all loans and all other administrative costs, which will be shared into fewer productive units. Your premium is, in other words, the three lignite units for investors and you leave PPC in her luck. A characteristic example of your bias in favour of the potential investor - I don't know for sure, we'll see - is that you limit the operation of the most modern power plant in Megalopolis. This is unheard of, Minister, not to allow a unit to operate 100%, just to favour some. Thirdly, you have no provision for the serious problems that PPC faces today. It's the result of your inability to negotiate. Maybe you haven't reached 17 hours, Mr. Stathakis, that's why. And you're not taking any care of its viability. The problem of PPC's dominant position in retail remains unsolved. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Therefore, your commitment remains to lose 40% of the market share and thus 40% of the turnover. Fourthly, you do not guarantee the future of the workers, nor of those who will be transferred to the companies, nor of those who will remain to PPC. The collective agreement for workers has expired since 27 February and so far has not signed a new contract with the new management of PPC. This has not been repeated, Minister, and it cannot be accidental. Obviously there is a deliberate delay so that new investors will not be charged. Fifthly, you are changing the compensatory benefit for local communities, for the region of western Macedonia. Remove the so-called lignite, which was given as an environmental compensation for the lignite-loaded areas for their development. And you are replacing it with the special lignite rights charge, which everything shows will be considerably smaller. And you made the increase following severe criticism, or apparently you do it to do the good of your beloved district ruler.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u166	Mrs. Antoniou, please get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u167	So you have no provision for the area's post-lignite use, no development plan. All this, of course, does not seem to be moving, especially the leadership of the region of western Macedonia and those who said they will resign and will obviously not put carpets to interests. They have no emotiveness or political courage to do so. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in the burning theme of PPC, the numbers speak for themselves. You received PPC in 2013 with 1 billion unresolved and brought it to 3 billion unresolved with the "I do not pay" movement and your political choices. You received PPC at a stock exchange value of 2.5 billion in 2014 and you have it at 0.6 billion today. And you continue with this bill unsatisfactory your destructive plan for PPC by selling the fillets, after you have first exempted the debts and surplus personnel you transfer to PPC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u168	Mrs. Antonio, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u169	One second, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u170	You asked for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u171	Everyone had a lot more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u172	Let the others go. We have said that there will be a roll-call vote at 15.30 p.m. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u173	Good. Unfortunately, in this case, the account of your incompetence policy and your post-elections - assholes in international terminology - will be called upon to pay the Greek people. Fortunately, not for much longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Sifakis has the floor from SYRIZA. And I would ask both of the last two speakers to keep the time. Three rapporteurs - speakers, of course, the Minister will also speak. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill on PPC following the European Court of Justice ruling and after the January agreement with the European Commission on compliance of the country with the European Union's data on the liberalisation of the electricity market and on lignite production. Instead of opening new lignite mines, which would only have access to individuals, and given the direction of the energy planning for the decisive shift in renewable energy sources, it was decided and agreed not to open any new mine and instead to sell the lignite plants to Melite and Megalopolis. The sale will be made through an open international auction by PPC with the supervision of the Greek State. After completing the sale of lignite plants, PPC will maintain 91% of its total production potential. In lignites even after 2026, when some plants with low efficiency and aged equipment have been closed down, it will retain over 70%. In the end, i.e. by 2035, it will maintain more than 65% of lignite production and of course all fully depreciated hydroelectric plants, all of the natural gas plants and the RES units it has. Now, where does the Opposition see the PPC’s destruction really wonder, especially when they had launched the disaster and this government came to cancel the course to the cliff they had prescribed. Why else was the sale of the so-called "little" PPC, which was not at all small, given that it was the most productive and most profitable potential with the sale of hydroelectric power plants of 904 MW, of AI Meliti and the second unit with the mines, AI and Amyntian mines, AII Komotinis and 30% of PPC customers? Given that PPC currently owns 53% of its electricity production in the country, this scenario, which sold horizontally 30% of its total production in combination with 17% intended for the PPC for sale in order to get the money to the public debt, would have been a small company with less than 20% of its electricity production in the country. Really, what else is the destruction, gentlemen of counterpopulation? What else is it exactly from the perspective you had reserved for the Public Enterprise? PPC must move decisively towards the RES, which you have condemned it to be in 3% of RES production in our country, and has such significant potential for growth in this sector. You did this just to identify it with lignite production, so that it is an easy target, given our country's commitments to climate change, but also to direct all RES production, which has a huge future, to individuals. PPC still has to direct its expansion to other activities, such as energy saving, electricity mobilisation, storage and further expansion of natural gas and of course play a leading role in the Balkans, strengthening its extroversion. This is the new productive model in PPC, which maintains its dominant position in the European market and is reoriented in line with international trends, new technological developments, and also our country's commitments to tackle climate change. Its financial situation can also be further improved by assisting the government with the payment of significant amounts from the amounts due in previous years, but also by the proposed change in the procurement fee, returning the percentage allocated to them from the surplus of the Special EIA to the UN. You heard well: the surplus of ELAP when you had led the energy market of RES to bankruptcy, with your very inspired plan, when you had put photovoltaics mainly in the system, when their prices were in God, in order to serve mainly foreign chambers' interests, instead of now entering the system that is cheap, as most of our neighbouring countries do. You did so by giving them a compensation price more than many times the price of technologies that produced energy from RES up to that time. That government saved ELAP, saved thousands of mainly micro-investors in renewable energy sources, who felt on their side over your days ten months of delays in their repayments and saw the risk of complete collapse of the RES market in our country visible. PPC paid a heavy price for this, about 320 million last year, and now that ELAP is surplus, it makes sense to repay it the percentage that is due to it by way of surpluses. Furthermore, PPC estimates that it will have a significant recovery in operating profitability of more than 18%. Along with the expected revenues from the sale of lignite plants and mines, the expected improvement of the collection and collection for the NGO of the past years, which will gradually take until 2022 with the first instalment taken from the surplus in 2017 will significantly improve its finances.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Sifakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u177	I'll be right over. With PPC, therefore, smaller and more powerful, extroverted and redirected towards RES, electricity supply, storage, a pioneer in technological developments in the rapidly changing international energy sector, we can strive to reduce the cost of energy to the final consumer, along with the security of the country's energy supply. This government, by guaranteeing the country's geostrategic position as an energy hub, maintains both PPC and IPTO under public control, implements the new energy planning, setting extremely ambitious targets for the development of RES by 2030, at the heart of its attention to reducing energy costs to the final consumer and introduced into its energy planning and tackling energy poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Sevastakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u179	I think I am the last speaker to speak, and I can therefore be strict with the Minister, that is to say I can tell him to stop talking to Mr Katsiki. The issues and questions that a strategy piece of legislation always raises and its credibility or strength is related to the power of questions. Apart from managing this problem, which starts with the rulings of the European Court of Justice and the forcedness or shift, the energy direction it gives, it must distinguish, provide for the directions of international industry and, if you like, political investment. To see where Europe and America's political investment is going, in what directions of energy. There are no easy answers to such fundamental questions, but I will try to make a little description. I am always accurate in my time, I do not exceed it, and therefore the five-minute period I will keep it, speaking of the hybrid that has done and almost completed the "PPC RENEWABLES" in Ikaria of the Samos Prefecture, which I have the honour of representing Parliament. It has different forms of energy it combines. It combines hydroelectric, say, dimension, wind power and conventional forms. So we have a combination of energy that produces the whole energy and some of it is surplusing. The question raised earlier by a colleague on storage forms, about the lack of storage technologies, is being reintroduced. If we solve and technological storage questions, we will be able to use a multiple type of energy cumulation that answers both the country's profile and the country's particular energy features. Let us not forget that the country did not pass the industrial revolution, so it has no energy monoculture, because it did not have the traditional type of development, the one Mr Kegeroglu implied if he stopped talking. I therefore believe that this is the direction, that is where the international industry and also the international thinking are. The applications’ research and technology sections shall be directed towards crossing multiple forms of energy. This makes the country an energy hub, this investment in smart combination, described by Famelos earlier on the way. I think that this is our basic direction, and so we should not look at the draft defence bill, just as a compliance with a European directive, but look at it actively, as an option. I would put to the reasoning and workers, not only on the conditions that workers should continue to assist as an investment in the quality of the work produced. The worker is an organic part of the work and therefore in this sense we do not have a simple question of working justice by continuing to offer these people as a question of productive quality. I close, assuming that this bill can be built on the terms of a legal, legislative or political forcedness, I think it can give the tools, become the same tool to think about, invest and build an energy profile close to and connected with the qualities of the country's profile that are stagnated: the environment, aesthetics, that is, the most valid sources of economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u180	The speaker's cycle is completed. We're on our way to secondary levels. So far in the Bureau, three rapporteurs have declared themselves to speak, speak or speak or speak. Mr. Kamaterre, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u181	Just for two minutes, Mr. President? I'll try.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u182	Yeah, for two minutes, to speed up a little, because we're going to get over the time we set up for the denomination.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, by reaching the end of the debate, I think we should say one - two conclusions. It was normal to generalise the debate beyond PPC on privatisation, entrepreneurship, etc. I was impressed and I'm going to stay on the platform Mr. Maniotis put, because I liked the conversation these days showed that there are two different worlds. I agree. Indeed, he was raped, it was not difficult to place himself in the same world as Mr Mitsotakis. Their speeches were the same, I don't know who wrote first or who submitted to the other. The arguments were the same. Indeed, on this platform I would very soon like to speak - although I was completely covered by the Deputy Minister, when he spoke to their own world about privatisation and entrepreneurship - and to add one or two examples to my short time. Everything else the Deputy Minister said. How did they privatize the Agricultural Bank and how did they bring it here? OTE, THE ELTA? What were they doing there? After they denounced them the way we know and said by many, we know and how they were cut off, the "good" ATE, the "bad" ATE etc. For the investments we are told, because we do not have much time, I would like to say: What were the investments? Was OSTH a private investment, a state-runner? Was that the Stock Exchange? Was it the development law, where a few dozen businesses took the vast majority of the development law? Were those the media that got borrowed and unscrupulous? We could say a lot about offshore, but I'm stopping here. Our world is really different, because we are trying to put the dignity, order, and all that we have said is done electronically, and most of the speakers have said so. Because I don't have time, I'll close with the following, 'cause it made me feel like that too. At the end of the day, we were threatened by Mr Manitis and Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Mitsotakis - in a way that I feared. Who? Mr. Hatzidakis. Who sold Olympics, Mr Hatzidakis, and we now have a monopoly? What about us?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u184	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u185	I shall conclude, Mr President. Who brought us here? What about us? In fact, you might sleep alone because you sold Olympiacos. We, as you say, cannot sleep, but for what? Not for the one you're implying. We can't sleep because we're trying to figure out how to get the country out of the place you brought us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u186	Thank you. The reason is the special speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Skrekas, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, it is such an impossibility for my colleague, Mr Co-Police, to support the bill that the government, which has started and spent on OTE, for Olympics, and I do not know what other privatisations have taken place years ago and which are ultimately not burdening the Greek people today. However, for this PPC-related thing and how it will evolve over the next few years, it does not mention anything. Let us put matters in order and correct a distorted picture, but also some inaccuracies, which were heard yesterday in the House by the relevant Minister. I said yesterday that you are selling the three most competitive lignite plants of PPC, which all three have a desulphurisation system and all the lignite plants that are staying in PPC have no installed desulphurisation system. He said the Minister was wrong and they did. The reality is that there is no lignite plant of PPC from the ones that are in Agios Dimitrios, Kardia and Amytinos. Today there is no system of wet desulphurisation or dry desulphurisation, Minister. On the other hand, there is only one competitive procedure for one unit for the St Dimitrios plant, which, if completed and if it can be built by 2020, will allow only one of the five units of Agios Dimitrios to operate. However, the Minister does not say, and nothing has been said by the MPs from those areas of Kozani and Ptolemais. What about the district heating, Mr. SYRIZA Members? Because when St. Dimitrios' units are not working in 2020, because they will not have a desulphurisation system, Kozani's district heating will not be possible. And because the units of the heart have decided that PPC will close... [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Two minutes, Mr President, because what I'm saying is quite important. So because PPC has decided that the units of Heart will be closed, Ptolemais will remain without remote heating and because Ptolemais V is excluded - here we will be - from being ready before 2022 and Ptolemais will not be heated. No MEP today, and especially those elected in these areas, wanted to raise this issue, rather than come and smile, as if they were doing the best for PPC and thus save this place. The time is limited and not to go back to the positives of PPC's "little" and to the negatives of the bad PPC made by this government, this is a very simple matter. The government, as our Chief, Mitsotakis, quite rightly said, does not have a strategic energy plan. The Minister himself knows very well that, just a month ago, he became the first committee in the House to launch a dialogue on the energy strategic planning of the country and, of course, the dialogue has not come to an end, which is why the government has not submitted any plans with regard to energy planning. With regard to the Mediterranean issue, it should not be possible for a Minister from SYRIZA to have the courage and the courage to speak about the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u189	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Messochora is a project that was designed, envisioned and constructed by previous governments, and throughout the previous period SYRIZA members were against this project and have even repeatedly appealed to the Council of State to cancel its construction. And not just that. This government has done a great deal of harm, as it has delayed three years in signing the environmental study, in order to run the project, and in fact, fourth year in SYRIZA - ANEL government, not a single drop of water has not begun to fill the Messochria dam, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u190	Mr Arvanitides has the floor from the Democratic Compact for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u191	I don't know how many minutes, but in any case, I want to say one thought. Minister, I do not know whether two concepts and two worlds are being compared, but, in closing the debate, how many people are there. There is also the world of logic and not of the last-minute forced solutions. Minister, you have made improvements to the work, the payroll and the obligations of those who take over the lignite plants, and of course someone can say that they are in the right direction. The question, however, is that whole regions will be driven by a one-stop shop, and how do we replace this? Is it enough to say that the old resource now with the new one with the change almost the same? Is it enough to discuss that resources will lead to environmental upgrades in the region and not as was the case in the past, as various colleagues have said in cultural events, without a targeting? The new production model according to your own perception is something that should appear and is not something that is simply dealt with with with sliding productive conferences in the region. Specific measures, concrete actions, specific perception. In order for Mr Famelos to be right to say about the circular economy and the country to adapt to climate change. Show it, Mr. Famel. This region needs it, as we all agree here. I come to the amendments, although with the pressing procedures, we do not have time to see them. You have tabled an amendment to reduce suppliers' charges. This is about PPC. It's a gift to PPC. Is he going to the consumption? You have a explanatory statement, which says that it could possibly bring about improvement. Every policy you choose will be judged on disinvestment through the sale of lignite plants. Here we go. The policies applied to open up markets are judged by the fact that in the end households, production units, farmers get cheaper electricity. That's the target. If that is what we are doing, then it is in the right direction. I'm very afraid this bill doesn't succeed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, I should like to say a few words about the other amendments. We are positive, although lately late, and the debates have no value at this time, in the amendment on seasonal firefighters. You are using the institutional framework that we have created, but we must end this matter immediately by definitive regulation. We are voting against the amendment to electronic evaluation, not to comment on what is happening at this time in this area. Finally, we are voting on the amendment on the Public Pensions Department.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr. Arvanitides. The special speaker from the Golden Dawn, Mr. Shahinides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. As far as this draft law is concerned, we have nothing to add as Golden Dawn. All I could say is that it should not even come to a debate and a vote in the House. They should have withdrew it. We were impressed, however, by the positions of all the remaining parties in the opposition, which rip their garments into a bill that goes entirely in line with their ideology, neoliberalism and slapping. As far as the amendments are concerned, I will only be present for the amendment that we will be voting in favour, which has a general number of 1560 and a special number of 184, and which concerns the amendment of the provisions of Article 6 of Law 3103/2003 on the recruitment of seasonal fire-fighting workers. This amendment concerns the recruitment of seasonal fire extinguishers with a fixed-term private employment relationship and enables those listed in the successful tables from 2003 until today to re-enter for the last two years, namely for 2018 and 2019. It also increases employment time from five to six months. The amendment was to be tabled earlier, but according to information, because the report of the General Accounting Office of the State was not ready, it is necessary now to pass by plenary and to vote to allow the Headquarters to get the recruitment order up to 30 April 2018, although the anti-missile period has already begun since 10 April 2018. As far as the other amendments are concerned, we are voting against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u194	All right, thank you. Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, Greece's national fuels are the sun, it's the air, it's the wave, it's geotherm and not the lignite. I am sorry that we are debating today a step backwards in the substance of the country's energy policy. Instead of moving forward and taking advantage of our comparative advantage of renewable energy, we are committed to polluting and expensive technology, that of lignite. I will close with the wish that the cultural leap forward at some point - we will not mention Portugal, as the only country of the same size as Greece, which managed to obtain electricity from the RES alone - and to mention the Greeks, the Portuguese and the other Europeans, as an example, and not to do what we all live today, i.e. the reverse. We are therefore voting against. As far as the amendments are concerned, we will only vote in favour of the amendment on seasonal firefighters. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Minister, you have the floor for the sitting to be closed and for us to proceed with the vote. I would ask you to speak for a maximum of five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, a circle of debate is closed, despite the fact that it has prevailed in a sense of parallel monologues. Someone invoked Seferis. It takes a common basis for us to be able to discuss. What's the matter? Firstly, is what is being done today with the energy planning of the country for 2030 and 2050? The answer is 'yes'. Because the specific weight of lignite has been reduced - and it will continue to fall - as all units withdrawn will not be replaced. I'm telling you, in summary, to figure out what we're talking about, that PPC today is not a lignite-based company. It's a company with 3,2 TWh waters. One third of its production is water. In one year from today, lignite will be 2.4 TWh, which is much smaller, once the "Chards" are withdrawn. Today, PPC already has gas of 2,7 TWh. So PPC's special weight is already moving to natural gas, hydroelectric and many new ones will be added. Once the investment has been made - I want us to be clear - in two years from now, PPC will have before Ptolemais 1.5 TWh of it. What we will have given today with today's article is only 0.9. So what do we actually do? A shrinking lignite production compatible with the environmental objectives we have and the energy design for 2030 and 2050, which will continue to be so. It is simply, both tracks - I repeat - that which remains, the lignite and the one that goes away, that have a strong intersectional equivalence. That was the subject of the negotiation. So a very large part of the discussions, that they leave the diamonds and silvers of PPC etc., all this discussion is irrelevant if someone takes over the exact units and when they leave and what is being privatised now. One unit leaves in 2026. The other one is leaving in 2034. Melite alone has a life span beyond 2034. So these are the data that make this debate compatible with environmental objectives. Portugal, for those who read newspaper titles only and do not read the contents of the article, does not produce 100% renewable energy. Today, on a very good day in Greece it can be 70% renewable energy. It continues to produce 20% and use base points and another 20% to rely on imports from the neighbouring region. Therefore, we are coordinates and go with specific objectives. Secondly, we have to agree that the current government has continued its strategic energy programmes and has overthrown others. That must be quite clear. We continued the major strategic projects, the TAP, the vertical axis and Greece is transformed into an energy centre. We proceeded with the hydrocarbons. We have old and new contracts, we have created a good institutional framework and so on. So I wonder why not all sides recognize the follow-up and insist that they find a constant grievance on these issues, which says that they are, but are being delayed and so on. There is continuity in major strategic projects. But there are areas and inconveniences. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The current government overturned three privatisations of the previous government. Clearly, we clearly overthrowd the D.S.C.A. and redo the competition. So judge us from the result. Instead of 400 euros, 535 million came, the European Strategic Investor and the strongest presence of the public in the DESFA. Judging us for IPTO. We overthrowded your privatisation. We did with 51% public, brought 700 million and created some data in this field. And thirdly, today we overthrowded the "little" PPC, which gave exactly one third and the main profitable elements of PPC. And today we are bringing only 10% of PPC's production potential under the terms and commitments set out in a specific decision to the Commission, which the Commission has calmed down with the deposit of the bill three days ago. That's the data. Now, as far as disasters are concerned, not in the number. Is PPC going to collapse? Oh, no. Has PPC improved? It has improved in terms of its capacity, firstly, - I repeat, I mentioned it - in the composition of its energy mix. It is much more compatible with the objectives and the new market. PPC's finances have improved at the expense of specific initiatives. A billion took from the state this year in a combination of the repayment of the YMOs, which the state owed - thank God - since 2013 and 2014 almost 400 million. He called 460. He got a contract from the state and took, of course, all 500 million from the IPTO. We are therefore talking about a company which, with 1.2 billion fresh liquidity, is a long way from destruction and collapse. As far as PPC's stock market value is concerned, we heard that the company was collapsed. First comment: In 2014, in the second half, PPC fell by a very large percentage, while it was in progress. Then he had a small drop in 2015 and 2016. Since 2017, it has been stabilised. I dare to show that the old PPC with this stock exchange value today, which must be added to the value of IPTO, recovers rapidly. I dared to submit the data that in 2018 PPC's stock exchange value was 63% in the first three months. Therefore, this proves a recovery strategy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u198	Minister, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u199	I shall conclude, Mr President. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 259a]] I get into two issues and I'm done. Work is one. I think it's all cleared up. I'll put it aside. I'm closing today's meeting with local communities. In local societies, and at the initiative of the regions and the regional and MPs of all parties, a specific framework has been established. Apart from the supply of cheap power, which was a large intersection, the current local resource was improved by lignite, which ensures full replacement of the previous resource. The national resource for the transition system was added today by the Deputy Minister. The greatest challenge ahead of us is to draw up the development plans in the region, to support them from transition resources, national and European, and to respond to the next day, which will resolve and respond to the major issues of employment, investment and land use, which are the major challenges of tomorrow. Under these circumstances, we firmly believe that we have dealt with PPC's issues. The next day will be a better day for both PPC and the energy sector of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this point is adjourned at the outset, on the articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 'Structural measures for access to lignite and the further opening up of the wholesale electricity market and other provisions'. A request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR at the beginning of the bill, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u201	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Arvanitides Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Ahmet Ilhan. Here you go. Mr. Gregorakos Leonidas. Here you go. Mr. Theocharopoulos Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Karras Georgios - Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Kegeroglu Vasiliou. Here you go. Mr. Koutsoukos Yiannis. Here you go. Mr. Kremastinos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Constantinople Odysseus. Here you go. Mr. Constantopoulos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Loverdos Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Maniotis John. Here you go. Mr. Barriots Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Papatheodoros Theodore. Here you go. Mr. Scandalidis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Jelephus Michael. Here you go. Mrs. Christophilopoulou Friday. Here. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote at the beginning of the bill. The acceptance of the principle of the draft law is "HAI". Those who fail to accept the principle of the bill say 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. They are called on the list: Mrs Anastasia Gara by SYRIZA and Mr Apostolos Vesyropoulos from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, which makes their vote known at the beginning of the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u203	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there have been letters from colleagues, Mr Charulas (Haras) Kefalidou, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, Mr Antonios Samaras, Mr South Mitarakis, Mr Konstantinos Karakounis, Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides, Mr Athanasios Davakis, Mr Konstantinos Ah. Karamanlis, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote 'OR'. Also, Mr. Konstantinos Zouraris, Mr. Markos Bolaris, Mrs.Efstathias Georgopoulos - Saltaris and Mr. Dimitrios Baxvanakis are absent and by letter they know that if they were present they would vote "NAI". These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] I propose, while counting votes is being taken, and until we have the result of the roll-call vote, that we proceed to vote on the articles and amendments. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u207	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u208	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u209	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u210	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u212	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u213	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u214	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u216	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u217	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u218	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u219	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u220	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u221	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u222	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u223	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u225	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u226	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u227	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u228	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u230	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u231	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u232	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u234	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u235	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u236	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u237	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u239	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u240	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u241	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u242	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u243	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u244	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u245	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u246	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u248	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u249	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u250	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u252	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u253	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u254	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u255	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u257	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u258	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u259	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u261	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u262	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u263	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u264	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u266	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u267	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u268	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u270	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u271	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u272	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u273	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u275	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u276	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u277	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under the general number 158 and that is the case?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u279	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u280	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u281	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u282	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u284	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u285	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u286	Therefore, Amendment No 1558, and a special 182, was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted by a general number of 1559 and a specialist of 183 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u288	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u289	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u290	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u291	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u294	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u295	Therefore, Amendment No 1559, and a special 183, was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1560 and a special 184 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u304	The amendment, by a general number 1560 and a special 184, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of Nos 1561 and 185 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u308	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u309	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u313	Therefore, Amendment No 1561, and a special 185, was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of Nos 1562 and 186 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u315	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u317	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u318	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u320	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u321	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u322	The amendment, by a general number 1562 and a special 186, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 4 of the bill. We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Does the House agree to the hotel article, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u324	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u325	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u326	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u327	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u329	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u330	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u331	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u332	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. They voted 275 MPs. In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', 151 Members voted. Against the start of the bill, i.e. 'NO', 124 Members voted. ‘PARTS’ voted no one, in accordance with the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u333	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Structuring measures for access to lignite and the further opening up of the wholesale electricity market and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill was accepted in principle, articles and amendments. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u335	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u336	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u337	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u338	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u340	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u341	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u342	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Structuring measures for access to lignite and the further opening up of the wholesale electricity market and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u343	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u344	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-25-S1-commons.u345	With the consent of this House at 16.51 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 26 April 2018 at 9 a.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
