ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Report will be made by the Bureau on the National Remembrance Day of the genocide of the Greeks in Asia Minor by the Turkish state. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a day of national memory for the destruction of the Hellenism of Asia Minor, a day that was established by Law 2645/1998 as a day of memory of the genocide of the Greeks in Asia Minor. The introduction of this day is not just aimed at expressing our suffering for a horrendous crime. It works as an opportunity for controversy and reflection on all kinds of barbarism that has been exercised at the expense of millions of people around the world. Our time has been marked by such crimes, which must be remembered and condemned to leave no margin for tolerance and no margin for oblivion. If we believe that history should not become an instrument of political purposes, we must also avoid its ideological crisis. This is largely true of one of the most tragic pages of our history, the Asia Minor Devastation, which left behind hundreds of thousands of dead, one and a half million refugees, and especially the rooting of the most alive part of Hellenism from its sub-century historical home. Let us not forget that the Asia Minor campaign, the vision of Great Greece and the final catastrophe took place within the national division and became the subject of intense political confrontation for decades. Fortunately, it is years that we have left behind that division and the rooting of Asia Minor Hellenism is now only a day of memory. But the memory remains unclean. Apart from a day of remembrance for the people and the homelands that have been lost, I think today should be a day of reflection. Like we said, it doesn't teach history. He's problematic and exemplary. One cannot see how we were driven by majesticism and the exaggeration of our capabilities in an irreversible disaster. The Greek army that entered a liberator in Smyrna ended up fighting beyond the Saigon and even sent him there a government that was elected, promising that it would put a short end to the campaign. Of course, the government's most prominent members were condemned and executed, thus opening up and further complementing the divide in the country. But their punishment is just. But let's see the other side. A country went bankrupt in 1898, when international financial control was imposed, it would double 15 years later. This is a sample of what can be achieved when there is vision, realism and prudent national policy. It also shows that our country has achieved its expansion, territorial and economic, when it had appropriate alliances, such as when it entered the international chess board, choosing a side. The safety of the country is not something that we should regard as easy and given. In our neighborhood, even today, we need vigilance, insight, alliances with temper, professionalism and method. Pain from the digestion may fade, because along with the old generations the experience is lost, but it is now recorded as a history, as is the new life of those through the millions of hardships who have managed to save and start a new life in Greece, and that is what we need to stand longer. The poor and ruined Greece of 1922 carried out a feat. Quite quickly and not always without vibration, with a lot of work and sacrifices, he managed to integrate refugees into their new social and economic reality, that of the new outbreak. I do not think there are many similar examples in modern history. Perhaps it is also the best tribute to all those who were lost and never left Asia Minor, the new life built by their compatriots in their new home. It doesn't teach history, but it can inspire by example. Memorandum day, therefore, today, ladies and gentlemen, for a Greece that has been uprooted, but a day of memory and for a Greece that has merged, which has assimilated, that has finally transformed desperation into creation and remodeled with new elements and new prospects. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The fifth question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left, Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Enhancement and upgrading of children's camps in Drakopio and Kastania of the Carditsa Prefecture", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Member's questioner. The first, with number 37/7-9-2018, topical question by MP Athens, New Democracy, Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "The situation on the islands of the East Aegean", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsa. The second question under number 38/7-9-2018 by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The risk of Elias staying outside the national motorway network, based on the government's manipulations on the many paths of Patras - Pyrgos, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible, Mr. Christos Spirtzis. The fourth, with number 36/7-9-2018, is a topical question by the Deputy of Attica of the Independent Greeks Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Restoration of frescoes of the Holy Church of Saint John Theologian Municipality of Acharnon", will not be discussed due to a workload of the relevant Minister of Culture and Sports Mr.Myrsini Zorbas. Finally, the sixth Question No 33/5-9-2018 by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christou Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "There has been a US involvement in the skeptic issue?", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Marcos Bolaris. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we are starting the debate with the third with number 39/10-9-2018, a topical question by the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Stavros Tassos, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The situation with student centres is a real one." The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs will answer Mr. Konstantinos Gabrielou. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-13-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the problem with the students' homes, with the tragic situation in which they have arrived and the serious lack of rooms, the escalating exodus of students, is constantly growing. During the period of the hundreds of memorandum laws, where the problems of the people's family are gigantic, the government maintains and exacerbates the problem with focal points and clubs, literally thrown on the road, selling infrastructure to private individuals. It is significant that while applications for accommodation in the homes each year are increased, the capacity of restaurants and rented rooms is below 9% of the student's number, resulting in even many newly-year students who have passed to schools away from their homes not even starting their studies. SYRIZA - ANEL Government continues the work of previous governments in the outbreaks: sub-financing, provocative contracts of millions with contractors, zero recruitment of permanent staff, downgrading, rentals in a number of outbreaks, the non-building of new outbreaks, the commercialisation of student care. The situation in existing outbreaks throughout the country is dramatic: washing machines damaged, unsurpassed air conditioners and calorifers, lack of hot water, electromechanical installations that operate instantly. It is, for example, characteristic that at the study hall of Patras it accounts for a washing machine for seven hundred students! Cleaning and storage are delivered to contractors and there is a serious risk to the health and safety of students. In several student homes the owners are literally persecuted during the summer months to make use of the tourist facilities. This policy leads hundreds of students to be thrown out of the homes, to interrupt their studies, to be forced to work to get through, to live in third-world conditions in several homes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So we ask you, Minister, what measures you intend to take to ensure that, firstly, no student is thrown out of the dorms. Foresee the housing needs of newly introduced students in the new academic year. Create new outbreaks. Maintain and renovate existing services and upgrade their services free of charge for all students. Take direct advantage of hotel complexes and other suitable places to ensure free accommodation and food for all students. And secondly, until it ensures free student accommodation for the rents of students and students who have passed to sections away from their place of residence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-13-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-13-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I think that the text you have read about the Asia Minor disaster is one of the best texts I have heard in Parliament and I think we should congratulate the Bureau. For reasons of historical remarks to say that, apart from the unsurpassed tragedy of refugee, one of the most important projects by Eleftherios Venizelos for higher education in our country stopped in the middle. This is the University of Smyrna, which was ready to operate next year under the leadership of Constantine Karatheodoris. This project stayed in the middle and, as you know, the exceptional schools, the Philological Gymnasium, the Central Parentry and of course the Evangelical School closed down. These are part of the history of our education. Mr Tassos, you raise one of the most serious problems facing the universities, and that is the problem of student care. The problem of student care, as you obviously know, is a problem that cannot be solved by pressing a button. We have received a situation beyond, say, chaos, with a non-transparent financial system, with things that have collapsed, with buildings that have not even had building permits and were used, and while we have the money, we cannot intervene because there are no building permits. This is all part of the situation that we have received. What we're trying to do is move in two directions. One direction is long-term planning. For the first time, there has been a committee and with the contribution of universities, i.e. we have INEDIBIM, the Ministry, together with the representatives of the Rector's Synod for a long-term planning. The other direction is to make various direct interventions. You said, like, hot water. Last year we had a huge problem with the Polytechnic. We solved it. However, these are interventions in facilities that are particularly problematic that you can obviously deal with in the short term, but that wants a long-term planning and obviously also wants a financial situation to be able to deal with these issues. We're on a relatively good path. I don't want to cover up the problems. This working party is now ready to present a plan. It is important to be a project that will be accepted by universities, because management as you know is at many levels of the outbreaks to see, firstly, what legislative changes we need to have and, secondly, what to plan. On the subject of aid, however, 47 million euros have been entered in the budget for student housing this year. It's one thing that works and functions relatively well. It is a very large sum with our financial data, and the subject of student care absorbs very large funds. It's about 200 million, because it includes the free writings we give, the travels, the passes, etc. I would like to tell you that there is, from the state's point of view, a commitment with large sums. I'm sure it's not enough, and I'm sure what you've put on another kind of programming. One thing I would ask you to clarify is this: you said in your first speech that there are outbreaks that go to private individuals and provide student care. I would like a clarification from you and for these two comments you have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-13-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. Mr. Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-13-S1-commons.u6	Do you know what the problem is, Minister? The problem is that your government continues to implement a policy that at its core is anti-popular. And this policy is anti-grassroots because it serves the interests of profitability of business groups and imperialism. You have no substantial differences in strategic targeting between the previous governments. There are no differences between the previous governments and yours. This policy is not based on the needs of society. We want, and we will continue to do so, to make a policy based on the needs of the people, the people's needs and the youth and especially the young people who are studying, if we are discussing today. Here I have a list of all the studies - and I will give it to you - with all the problems that exist. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Tassos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned list, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The extent to which applications are met is, at best, four to one and it reaches six to one. I mentioned in my protology that only 9% of students are covered by all of them in cafés. Evidently some may not stay in the homes because they are in their accommodation or may have the financial potential, but at least 60% of the students need a restaurant. Only one out of six meets this need. So this problem is combined with what we have said before, that now also the management of student care goes to private individuals, because the institution that has been set up - I forget its name...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-13-S1-commons.u7	INEDIABIM. It's an institution of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-13-S1-commons.u8	Yeah. That's what she does. It does, however, work under private economic criteria. It's not a sign that it's a public institution. It works with reasonable costs - benefits. People's needs, health and education needs cannot enter into the logic of cost and benefits. People's needs must be met, especially those of health and education. They cannot operate on private economic criteria. That is why we are waiting for specific measures from you. Firstly, in the long term all the homes provide decent housing conditions for all students in need, and secondly, until this is done, they should be subsidised in such a way that they can really meet this need. Because there are too many early-year students who don't even go, they don't even write, they don't start their studies because they can't cover the cost. There are too many of these students. It's not one and two. Today - you know, because I imagine you live in this society - the conditions are tragic for our people in general and for young people in particular. Therefore, we cannot give 4 billion for NATO needs and reduce the coverage of all youth needs, since we are discussing this issue. But this is a strategic option, unfortunately, because this is the strategic choice of all urban governments, to serve the needs of capital gains and the needs of imperialism. We, as you know, are vertically opposed to that logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-13-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-13-S1-commons.u10	I'm not going to try to figure out exactly how the connection between the fountains and imperialism is going and I'm going down. I understand that there has been no response to the request I made to clarify exactly how and where they go to private persons and how the commercialisation of student care takes place. So, if there's no answer, that's not true. There is another fact of yours, that INEDIDIM, the agency that has replaced the Youth Foundation, etc. and has the responsibility of many of the procedures of student care, it operates on a cost-benefit criterion. So you want to say that we do not make public notices on how restaurants are going to be and how the various foods, refreshments, etc. can come. at the dorms and dorm restaurants? So it must be from an arbitrary state, in your opinion? These procedures are completely transparent, they are procedures that have led to the end of old complications in these issues. In fact, we have led a dean to the disciplinary because from everywhere, all the reports seemed involved in the way of supplies and went by saying. If we did something, all the way of supplies is perfectly transparent. Therefore, INEDIABIM should be congratulated on the way in which it manages millions of Greek people. And he manages them in an extremely effective way. You say we have an anti-popular policy. Don't get involved in these designations. I say: they have never gone to rent subsidies. It's not for the bad of society, it's for the good. Does he need more? I'm telling you, he needs more. There's no money. However, if you see last year, last year, and so on, there's an increase. Secondly, for the first time this year, for the first time in eight years, the budget of universities has increased by 45%. Everyone recognizes it, opposition, congress, etc. It is also a sign that we are getting out of the very difficult financial framework of the previous years and that our first priority is to make life easier in universities and in the homes. The first is easier than the second, and I have very sincerely told you what the problems and the issues you have raised are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-13-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-13-S1-commons.u12	With the consent of the Department at 10.43p., the meeting for next Tuesday, 18 September 2018, at 18.00, on the subject of the work of the Department: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
