ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I wish everyone health, enlightenment and a good year. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The first two topical questions will be answered by Minister Catherine Papanatziou. We begin with our second question with number 709/2-1-2018, on "Support measures for the Lesvos earthquakes". Mr Athanasios has the floor to present his timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I wish to wish that we have a good year for our country, particularly, of course, for the operation of Parliament. Minister, six months after the catastrophic earthquake of June 12, 2017, the inhabitants of Lesvos are still waiting for government promises on the measures to support seismopaths and, in particular, the inhabitants of the village of Vrisa, which was completely levelled. Two POLs were issued in 2017, POL1091 and POL1092, following the declaration of the area in an emergency of up to 12-12-2017, which extended the deadlines for the submission of declarations up to 29-9-2017 and the deadlines for payment of the certified debts of natural persons, legal persons, etc. up to 12-12-2017. Following the decision of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, 8460/412, to extend the proclamation of the area in an emergency until 12 March 2018, your Ministry was required to have already issued the new MUL for the new extensions. So you realize what weight there is for the world, which is in an uncertainty ahead of winter. Of course, the extraordinary aid for the immediate aid of EUR 586.90 when I asked, Minister, was not paid all over the world, but, at the moment when we are talking, it is beginning to be paid. The delay, of course, was not due to the Municipality of Lesvos, which had already received the EUR 300,000, but was mainly due to the beneficiaries, who had not submitted their documents in good time. However, today we have huge problems relating to the rental allowance or the flat that is not paid on the grounds that they allegedly have a country house. I'll wait until we talk more thoroughly in dentistry after the Minister's replies. One should wonder about the unfavourable position in which these people find themselves in the run-up to winter. At the same time, no allowance has been paid for the necessary construction that has been destroyed. Of course the buildings have not been demolished, the space has not been cleansed and there is no discussion about reconstruction and we do not know where the whole situation is. Finally, there has been no allowance for repair and, of course, the issues that have arisen with the professionals in the region. We are awaiting the reply of the Minister. Mr President, I will return to dentistry more thoroughly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Athanasios. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to wish everyone a good year, too. 2018 will, in fact, be a good year, a special year, because we will get out of the board, the memos will be over. Let us now see the timely question about Lesvos earthquakes. Listening to you, I really wonder how you can say that our government promises have not been implemented. Not one, not two, but more than ten regulatory acts and two laws have already been adopted to alleviate the earthquakes of the island of Lesvos. Let's take things from the beginning: Immediately after the seismic vibration of June 12, 2017, the Ministerial Decision POL1092 was adopted, as you mentioned it, which I signed on 26 June 2017, which extended until 21 September 2017 all the tax obligations of residents, natural and legal persons in all the municipalities of the Municipality of Lesvos. By letter dated 12 December 2017, the Commission informed all interested parties that it had decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as ‘the TFEU’). Likewise, the Governor of the Independent Public Revenue Authority signed on 26 June 2017 Decision 1091, as you said before, extending until 29 September the deadlines for the submission of VAT declarations, the deadline for submission of which was either 30 June 2017 or 31 July or 31 August, as well as the time limits for payment of the tax which may arise from those declarations. Subsequently, in Article 13 of Law 4484/2017, which was published on 1 August, an exemption was provided for by HNVIA for the years 2017 and 2018 for the buildings, following the building on them, which are located in all municipal units of the municipality of Lesvos. On 19 December 2017, we signed a decision on the settlement of outstanding debts that had been suspended by the previous decision in order to allow these debts to be paid in twenty-four monthly instalments, without the basic debt being borne by additional incremental increases, interest and late payment in its duration, with the date of payment of the first instalment on 31 January 2018. I am tabling all the above points in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time, a joint ministerial decision of the Ministers for Finance, Economy and Infrastructure and Transport was signed on 18 July 2017, which demarcated the earthquake, with a view to restoring damage to the buildings of the areas of Lesvos. The same decision laid down the time limits and supporting documents, the corresponding procedure and the provision of legal assistance of 80% free state aid and granted by the Natural Disaster Restoration Department and 20% interest-free loan by credit institutions for the repair and reconstruction of damaged buildings and buildings. Also, by decision of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, signed on 8 August, all the details required to provide the above housing assistance for reconstruction, self-containment, completion and repair of the earthquake affected buildings were laid down. I also make the relevant decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u5	For the building, has the municipality received funding?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u6	At this point, I should like to say that, following the relevant communication with the other ministries involved, we will answer the other questions which do not fall within the competence of our Ministry. With regard to the granting of a rent-cohabitation subsidy we said before, on 30 August, a joint ministerial decision was signed by the Deputy Minister of Finance, the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development and the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, which laid down the details for granting the subsidy, the relevant deadlines and the conditions for granting the subsidy, according to which the rental-sharing subsidy is set at EUR 300 per month for individuals, EUR 350 for families of up to three people, EUR 400 for families of four and EUR 500 for families of more people. Special provision has been taken for families that include disabled persons over 67%. I am also tabling the relevant decision. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] According to the Directorate responsible for Restoring the Effects of Natural Disasters of Central Greece, as regards the well-known red buildings of Lesvos, we are also informing you that three hundred seven autopsy protocols of dangerous, prepared buildings have been drawn up so far, which account for around 100% of the citizens' relative demands and have already been sent to the owners a hundred and twelve of them. The remaining ninety-five have been sent to the competent authorities in order to obtain the necessary approvals and, after receiving the relevant approvals, they will also be sent to the owners. In addition, by decision of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, signed on 3 October 2017, the terms and modalities of the demolition allowance were laid down to the owners of buildings that have been judged to be dangerously prepared and which have been issued with the relevant protocols of autopsy of dangerously prepared buildings. By 29 December 2017, a request for a demolition allowance was submitted to the above Rehabilitation Directorate for 40, of which about 70% were paid by 31 December 2017. The other requests are in the process of completing supporting and checking. I give you the relevant documents. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would also like here to know how many corresponding decisions or laws and how quickly they had been adopted on such cases in your own government. After listening to your speech, I will say the rest, as I am well over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Charalambos Athanasios has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u8	Madam Minister, I do not doubt the good intentions, because we have all agreed that measures should be taken to alleviate the world. But the facts do not justify this optimism created to us at that time. Let's start first - first of all by HISBIA. Since December 18, 2017, interested parties could submit applications for exemption from HNVY for the years 2017 and 2018 of those buildings, after the relevant plot, of course, have been affected by the earthquake. It should be noted that those owners who own other properties, other than the affected buildings, will have to pay the equivalent to them HUNPIA. However, the TAXIS system for the affected buildings will continue to mention the debt of unpaid HAVIA, together with the late payment. All of this will be deleted after processing from the DU of the application that will be submitted there. Another problem, which despite the assurances of an immediate settlement is pending, is that after the extradition of the multi-confidential POL for exemption from the 2017 and 2018 HOPS, the "TAXIS" system has not been adapted to accept the exemption and that is something you should see. The aim of the Ministry of Finance, as announced by the coordinator for the impact of the earthquake in Mytilini, was until the end of 2017 to submit applications and the supporting documents to be redefined and redefined the tax paid for the damaged buildings, which was not done, as the TAXIS system is closed and does not take action by the officials of the IGC - this can and can be seen, is a given today - so that the process can be completed. There is an availability of cooperation between the officials, as I was assured by the DU Mytilini, who informs the parties concerned and make it impossible to serve, but they cannot proceed with the proceedings if the system is closed and does not accept the discharge. The Ministry had enough time to be able to make this correction. As far as the rent allowance is concerned, the subsidy, for those owners who resided in the damaged dwellings, is granted until the repair or reconstruction of their dwellings and up to a maximum of two years, as laid down in the decision. And for the tenants of the dwellings that have suffered injury for six months. Those who had a second roof, as there is a country house in Vatera, went and stayed there and seems reasonable, since someone had a second home. But do you know what the problem is? That it is about summer houses, which do not have the thermal insulation infrastructure, there is no air conditioning, and that is, of course, an issue that creates additional costs, because they are all obliged to purchase heating appliances, etc., so that they can meet these needs. There has been an initiative by the Ministers responsible for Infrastructure, but the information I have at least given is that they have not received any response. Now, if there is any reply from Mr Spirtzi, welcome is also a wish, so that this issue can be resolved. The third issue is demolition. The so-called'red' buildings are two hundred fifty and the buildings that have been demolished in the last six months are only four. You can understand that the process is progressing very slowly. One point, therefore, is that the rental subsidy for the owners who lived in the homes who suffered damages is granted until the rebuilding of their residence, up to a maximum of two years. Of course, that is what the decision you have taken on 25-7-2017, but so far there is this tragic situation, which I am referring to. We've been talking about the building before. He needs an emergency help. I must say that the municipality of Lesvos received a grant of EUR 300,000, which was probably intended for the construction. This grant, however, was used for the exceptional aid of EUR 586 and not for the construction. What about the building? This is an issue, which is still pending. Finally, with regard to professionals, who were assured by the Ministers responsible when they visited Mytilini, there is no care whatsoever. There is no care for our fellow citizens who had a professional roof, particularly in Vrisa - and for the other villages - which has been levelled. They suffered huge damage and remained unworked. A document from the Aegean Region, from 30-11-2017, was sent to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Infrastructure, on ‘the aid measures for professionals’. The document relates specifically to sixty-five cases in Vrisa, Plomari, Polygnitos, Plagia and other Mytilini villages. Of course, you realise that the situation is hopeless for professionals, who now face a survival issue, taking into account, as an additional burden, and continuing illegal immigration, with what this entails for the economy and the country's tourism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Athanasios. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, as far as the TAXIS system is concerned and that they cannot enter the DUE and do the procedures, we must tell the citizens or professionals about the corrections to be made and the deletion of the debts that they have to bear with the HPAI, that with the protocol number of their application there is no problem. In any case, the same goes for all the regions affected and the other islands that had become a disaster.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u11	It doesn't open the system, Minister. Look at it. It can be corrected.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u12	I'll talk to the Independent Public Income Authority. What I can assure you is that since they make their request in time, there is no impact on the citizens. Following my prototype, I would like to point out that in the context of the relief and support for the affected enterprises, employers or insured persons, who have a professional establishment or activity in areas affected by natural disasters or disasters and have proved to be damaged, the following facilities are provided for in respect of the payment of insurance contributions to insurance agencies. The first is the capitalisation of late payments until the end of the previous and natural destruction of insurance contributions after the additional fees, interest, surcharges and other charges. Secondly, it is the suspension of payment of the current insurance contributions for six months, starting from the 1st of the month in which the natural disaster occurred, without, during this period, additional fees or other surcharges. These contributions shall be repaid in twelve to twenty-four equal monthly instalments, starting on the 1st of the following month from which the six-month suspension ended. For the purpose of implementing these arrangements, in the earthquake affected on 12 June 2017 in areas of the Regional Unit of Lesvos in the Northern Aegean Region, relevant instructions have been given by the Single Social Security Agency by EFKA. In addition, Article 30 of Law 4488/2017 stipulates that the residents of the Vrisa settlement of the Municipalities of the Prefecture of Lesvos as an earthquake are fully exempted from participation in the pharmaceutical expenditure from the participation in the pharmaceutical expenditure from 1 June 2017 until 31 May 2019. The above exemption concerns the inhabitants of the region, as derived from the last census. The conditions and conditions for subjecting to the above rules were laid down in a joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministers for Home Affairs, Labour and Health. I am also making the relevant joint ministerial decision. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Continuing, the Ministry of Interior informed us, at the request of the Ministry of Labour, that the Municipality of Lesvos was subsidised with the sum of EUR 300,000 for the implementation of a social protection programme to cover immediate living needs. This corresponds to financial aid amounting to EUR 586,54 for each family. In addition, the Ministry of Labour's Anti-Poverty Department has promoted a request to the financial services of that Ministry to approve an amount of EUR 331,971 for the replacement of the buildings of the affected persons. Also, at the request of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, the Municipality of Lesvos was awarded EUR 50,000 to deal with the consequences of the earthquake. I'll submit the relevant documents. Let me remind you that, too, the difficult financial situation of our country and the pressure we face at every level, with Law 4509/2017, we have maintained the reduced rate of VAT by 30% on islands affected by the refugee problem, including Lesvos, until 30 June 2018. Regarding your reference to the extension until 12-3-2018, before making this statement and your request, I would like to tell you that our Ministry should have already issued the new MUL with the extensions, after the extension of the proclamation of the area in an emergency, as you mentioned in your question. We therefore cite Law 2275/1994 in the fifth article, which states that, in exceptional cases of earthquakes, floods or other natural disasters caused by significant damage to a large number of taxpayers, the recovery of late payment to the public for up to six months should be suspended in the affected areas. There is no legal possibility for the Treasury to grant another extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u13	This does not mean that the legislator cannot grant any further extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u14	As you can see, because of your legal education, our Ministry and all the relevant ministries have exhausted all the margins that the law gives them and have supported in all the legal ways the people affected by Lesvos. In addition, I would remind you that during the previous natural disasters that hit the island, such as the rainfall in November 2016, corresponding tax concessions and arrangements were given by our Ministry for the affected in Lesvos. I am tabling the Minutes and the ministerial decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make some announcements to this House. The Ministers of Finance, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, and the Minister of Finance, on 28 December 2017, submitted draft laws: (a) ‘Modification of the Amending Protocol to the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of San Marino providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in Council Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of common declarations by the Contracting Parties and implementing provisions’; and (b) ‘Preparation of the Amending Protocol to the Agreement between the European Community and the Principality of Liechtenstein providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in Council Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments and common declarations by the Contracting Parties and implementing provisions’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. In addition, MP Mr Ioannis Giolas is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 6 January 2018 until 9 January 2018 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u16	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We move on to the second question with number 1437/22-11-2017 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by the Independent MP from Athens Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The need for the immediate release of the twenty-thousand owners in the areas of the municipalities of the wider Athens region, by public claims." Mr. Carras, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Since it is the first meeting of the year, I wish everyone here a good and productive year, and I hope that the country will also be assisted in the next period. On the question of the question: When Metropolitan Athens began to expand, there was a need to extend the town plans to make the construction of new dwellings, which were required due to the policery created since the 1960s-1970s, to cover the housing needs of people who emigrated internally in this metropolitan area. So then, the city plans were extended by the integration of large areas of the perimeter municipalities with the Municipality of Athens. I mention the Municipality of Psychics, Galatsi, New Heraklion, Peristeri, New Ionia. After that, by acts of principle, these areas were built up and construction permits started to be issued, and today they are densely populated. Things were going well, until the stuff started - and I am referring to the urban register - until recently, the procedures began to come to an end. In this case, the public appears in the course of the objections to submit group objections to areas which are included in a town plan and are built, arguing that in the far past - and I am referring essentially to the time after the Greek state was released and later - it was forest land for which there was a presumption of public ownership and never had been recognised as private. This has resulted in conditions of concern to a large number of owners, who have forced them to mobilise themselves to defend their rights. There was only one fragmentary law in 2003, which attempted a partial solution, but which, unfortunately, did not work because it recognised the form of a 'especial' usage, I would call it the rights of individuals under detailed conditions and, today, the process of realisation is still pending, from what I have heard, public objections concerning twenty thousand ownership in these areas. The public is insistent on claiming rights after many decades in these areas. I think that the existing law, which leads to the chambers of the courts and especially to the committees of objections and possible later to litigation, must be replaced and the presumption of public ownership in these areas should be lifted. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Carras. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u19	Mr Karras, first of all, I would like to thank you for raising this issue, because it was and is one of the key issues that the relevant ministries are dealing with, including the Ministry of Finance. First of all, I will submit to you the information we have received from the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, in connection with our communication and cooperation, since the relevant department of the Ministry of Finance has carried out such actions after sending documents from the relevant Departments of Forestry. In 1836 the first legislation was adopted. According to the Royal Decree, under number 17, private forests are defined as private forests, which prove to be private in favour of independence as well as those included in private villages, ticks, even if the relevant titles do not refer to these forests. The owners of these forests had to submit to the Secretariat a statement on the finances within one year of their publication of their titles, so that they could also be recognised as having the forests officially handed over to the owners or rejected and refer the case to the courts. According to the settled case law of the Ice Bay, the presumption of the ownership of the public as to the ownership of forests, forests and grassland areas was strong, even before the conceptual definition of land. The fighting presumption of public ownership, i.e. the provisions under which property rights are recognised in favour of the State, applies to all forest and grassland areas, regardless of whether or not they were incorporated into the town plan. After all, the rights of the public are inalienable, in accordance with the established provisions on public property. The Ministry of Agriculture, immediately after its establishment, tried to resolve the property regime of forests by administrative regulation. In fact, in its opinion, the Legal Council of State had also called into question the proprietary status of all agricultural areas which have ceased to be cultivated and forested. Today, in the case of the integration of forests, forests or grassland into a town plan, corresponds to the relevant government property services to investigate the possibility of a public right in the areas of forest or grassland that were managed and managed as public from forestry services until they were incorporated into the city plan. In fact, by means of the existing provisions after being amended by Law 4389/2016, property situated within a town plan or a settlement in 1923, or within a settlement of less than two thousand inhabitants, the lawmaker of the property is considered to be a master against the public, since, firstly, the property has been granted a legitimate title for a period of ten years on the grounds of his own or his licensor, established and transferred after 23-2-1945, unless during the creation of the law he was in bad faith or, secondly, the property has been reappointed for thirty years, unless again in the creation of the law he was in bad faith. This second case concerns real estate of up to two thousand square metres, and if the property is larger, specific arrangements apply. It is worth noting that these arrangements do not apply to areas which in the town plan or in the settlements are common areas, parks and blooms. I present the relevant document of the Forestry Directorate of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, as well as Article 4 of Law 3127/2003 as amended by Law 489/2016. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'll talk about the rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Mr. Carras, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister gave a detailed answer, but it will allow me to comment that she has not given me an answer to my question if there is any possibility of changing the existing legislative framework since 2003. Why am I saying this, Minister? Historically, when Greece was released in 1836, forest exploitation was an economic resource and it was necessary to separate public property from private property. The change almost after two hundred years and the property conditions, but also in general the conditions of the country, imposed the change as follows: Those areas that were integrated into town plans, and indeed, if they had been in the far past forest character, were found to have been legally included for the reason that it was not enough for the forest or the past. In fact, you will allow me to remind you of the Opinion No 340/2011 of the Legal Council of State. I imagine she's familiar with the Ministry. It says that the areas that have been included in town plans, even if they do not bear the signature of the Minister for Agriculture, are legal, and this concerns the presumption of the legality of administrative acts, which we cannot question. Therefore, this opinion in conjunction with the provision you refer to in Article 4 of Law 3127/2003 - I do not want, Mr President, to make a legal analysis, but I am necessarily guided by the form of the matter - it retains the presumption of public ownership and accepts that it is only under specific procedure and conditions. If we accept that these areas are legally incorporated in urban areas for which construction permits are issued by the competent administrative authorities of the State, then housing ups are being raised, then taxes are paid for the preservation of these rights which are recognised as private, we are in opposition or contradiction - as you would like me to say - after so many years of the start of the process of urban ownership to show the public or, in particular, the Ministry of Finance's General Secretariat of the Ministry of Finance, Minister, and then to come to the office and say 'you know, in 1850, it was forest land'. So I wonder at the moment: When the procedures of the Land register have been under way for thirty years - and I am talking about areas which, if you read the data, have been included in the town plan in the 1960s and 1970s, I am talking about the periphery of Athens, because we have to remember that in the past twenty-thirty years we have no extension of the perimeter towns of Athens - no one has heard it from public services, or from forestry or public property. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall finish, Mr President. In fact, I would like to point out that the issue has come back about two and a half years ago, with a question, in fact, Mr Delis, the Communist Party of Greece, is also present. I have the written reply from the Ministry of Agriculture, the Environment and Energy at that time - and Mr Tsironi, of course - 'We know that the political leadership of the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy together with the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance and the relevant departments are drafting legislation'. This regulation must once again be in place for an additional reason. Today, in conditions of economic hardship in which we are situated, we cannot deal with family rulers who have paid taxes and who have created the conditions of their residence and family in good faith. What the Law of 2003 says and restored in 2016, Madam Minister, is to be the citizen affected by 'good faith', how will bad faith or good faith be proved when I am bought by a contributory or for any other reason? How will it prove? But if the last guy was a bad guy, I'm going to pay for it, and I'm going to buy the property? I have a middle sentence, if you like. We can remove the presumption of the public. In the past we have a series of provisions with Article 62 of Law 998/1979, and that is where we have excluded whole regions. In fact, even recently, on the SYRIZA Government, the Mani area was excluded from the presumption of public ownership. Let me remind you that you yourself, Minister, have consented to the transfer of public land - and above all forests - to municipalities such as Giali in Nysvro, for example. Therefore, the presumption of the State can be lifted and you can, if you like, only retain it in unstructured areas. There may be in there, in these areas, land which must be claimed by the public, for the reason that it also has a value today. I think, therefore, that this solution can be given. Furthermore, I would also like to say about the time dimension, namely that today we could talk about forest protection when there are no forests and they were fifty years ago. These areas have no ecological value, to say that the abolition of the presumption of public ownership will also have a constitutional obstacle. So I think, Minister, that on these two points the Ministry has the opportunity to help these people and to remove their concerns. I have reports here which speak of thousands of refugee owners - I think you do not question them too - in the process of realisation. So let's give you a solution. It will be of benefit not only to the owners, but also to restore social peace. It will enable these people to believe that they are protected from the state and can continue their lives intactly. Mr President, I am tabling the above-mentioned documents. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much. I left a little more time, because it was an important issue, and we want the Minister to answer that. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u23	Subsequent to what I have said in my prototype, I must stress that in accordance with the existing provisions, the public is required to submit a written declaration and may apply for correction or objection for the purpose of safeguarding and protecting its rights. With relevant documents, therefore, of the relevant forest addresses of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, they have been delivered to the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Finance, in other words forest polygons, within the approved plans for various municipalities, including those mentioned in the body of your question, for the responsibility of our Ministry. This information was sent for the reason that these areas, according to and above from me, before they joined the town plan, were public forests and after their accession lost their forest character, but not the public. Therefore, the services of our Ministry were legally obliged to submit statements and objections to the relevant land register offices for the property included in these forest polygons.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u24	Change the law. That's my proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u25	That's where we'll get there. Afterwards, in fact, the tables of the affected owners, which were sent to us in the register, as required by the law, the General Secretariat of Public Property notified the affected owners of the submission of the objections by registered letter. In view of the above, this issue you raise with your question is well known to our Ministry, but also to the competent bodies. As you said, a question was raised by the Communist Party of Greece and Mr Tsironi. The competent services of our Ministry have been asked to assess the situation and to promote proposals to resolve this issue. We will also take your proposals into account. We'd be useful. Besides, you have knowledge of the subject. All possible efforts are being made to find a solution immediately, with our main concern to facilitate citizens, who may be unjustly troubled and, on the one hand, to ensure that the financial and social interests of the State and the protection of the rights of society as a whole are better safeguarded. I think in the end we'll find a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u26	I am willing to contribute to this solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much for your contribution. Although from what you know, it's a very difficult piece, the piece of public property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much to the Minister. It's a big disease. The register in Greece. The third, with number 705/2-1-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelli, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Great the cost of moving soldiers" will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsa, abroad, on a service trip to Cyprus. The first, with number 706/2-1-2018, a top-stage question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Strengthening the education and training of human resources in the tourism sector", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Helena Kountoura, due to a tripartite meeting with the Prime Minister. The second, with number 708/2-1-2018, a top-circuit question from the Member of the Republic of Attica, Georgiou Vlachos, to the Minister of Health, on the application of claw back to all contracted health providers and non-producers, importers, distributors/suppliers of medical devices, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Paul Polakis, due to a workload. Likewise, the first question under number 453/17-10-2017 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: ‘EKAV Station Recommendation in Naples Boeing of the Municipality of Monemvasia’, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Pavlos Polakis, due to a workload. The first, with number 707/2-1-2018, topical question by the Member of Parliament, Xanthi, of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gregorios Stoyannidis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Following the licensed number of jobs in casinos", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The third will be discussed under number 704/2-1-2018, a top-level question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the cases of the terror of students in many schools in the country, due to their participation in struggles. The word "fights" will explain it to us, because I have not understood what you mean. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u29	Thank you. It may have left black tears for life and the future of youth, but when this youth decides to take this life and the future into her own hands and fight for it, then things change and become more specific. In view of the strike that took place on 14 December last month, several student councils throughout the country decided or thought to decide on their participation in this strike movement against, of course, a policy aimed at their own future, the future and the life of our youth. See some examples. In Veroia and Naoussa directors arrived to tell the students that according to the Ministry of Education’s circular, they are forbidden to hold a convention to decide their participation in mobilization. Here we would also like a clear answer from the Minister, if there is such a circular, which is invoked by the particular directors of Veria and Naoussa. Here in Athens, at a school in Ilio, he arrived to send letters to the students’ homes, to the parents, because with their general assembly the students decided to participate in the strike and on the way, threatening them with absence. At the same time, in Thessaloniki, directors of this sad role of the pedophile threatened fifteen disciples' councils that if they participate, if they want to take part in this strike mobilization, they will lose their multi-day trip. In Lamia and Gravia, in the Fthiotida Prefecture, the administrative mechanism was activated at a higher level. More specifically, the secondary school director himself threatened the students to bring the prosecutors, if they dare to think about their participation in the strike rally. In fact, this director’s decision or his desire by the police themselves notified her to the school students who happened to take over those days, because his merger is imminent. In Trikala, of course, we had the decision of the Director of the 9th Trikala High School to punish by one-day expulsion those students who dared to take part in the strike gathering on 14 December. We see, then, that terrorism and intimidation are manifested indiscriminately and when youth, which is being shaped, demands better conditions for education and life, then knows the whip of the urban state. We would very much like the Minister to hear what he says about all this, how he stands up to these worrying phenomena, which, as far as they go and strengthen and above all, we would like to hear from the Minister what measures he thinks of taking, so as to get rid of any punishment these students, who, in our view, should be praised and not punishment, because they decided to claim with their parents a better life and stop any threat to those students now or in the future, who decide to fight for a school and for a life that they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much. I would ask the Minister to have the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Happy New Year!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u32	Happy New Year to our children!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u33	Mr Delis, although I have always said how careful you are, today, on the first day of the meeting, with the topical questions, unfortunately, there are very serious problems in your timely question. Your topic is about the cases of bullying students in many schools in the country, dozens of cases of child restraint in many schools in the country. I would like you to know that our schools are democratic schools and no one is terrified, no child from teachers. There may be few exceptions. Yeah. But I would ask you not to create a climate where there is no. So that's the first. Secondly, you say that in Veroia and Naoussa new "female" were tested with the managers telling students that, according to the Ministry of Education circular, they are not allowed to hold a meeting. Do you have any such circular you? Is there any such circular in your hands? Because if it came, it is clear that it does not express our own policy. There's no such circular. If there is, it can be the service and it's unacceptable. But, if it is, I would ask you to submit it to the Minutes, give it to me. Such a circular doesn't exist and it doesn't exist. Children have the opportunity to do, under conditions agreed each time, these conventions. Let us come to something else, which once again creates a climate that is not good. It is not good because it does not show the real functioning of schools. I am telling you very specifically what you mentioned about the Trikala. You say that in Trikala, by decision of the director of the 9th Trikala High School, students were punished with one-day expulsion on Thursday 14 December at the strike gathering called by the city's unions. We have investigated it, like all your other complaints, for which there is absolutely nothing to do with what you say, according to the written answers sent to us by the school officials and the training managers, as well as the regional authorities. I want to be very careful about the Trikala issue. First of all, on this issue you are saying, we had absolutely no complaint, neither from the parents of schoolchildren nor from the 15-member school board or from other bodies. The explanations given are: On December 14, 2017, the day, that is, the strike, seven students of the 9th High School of Trikalon left school without informing the director or the teachers. Immediately put in the position of the director and the teachers yourself, who are also an instructor. You have seven children who leave. What would you do? You would call the parents, as is provided for by the legislation, but above all by the interest you should have in these children. So when the parents were called, six of the seven knew nothing about this decision for the children to want to leave school while they left. In fact, six of the seven declared their concern at where the children are going. We're talking about minors. Isn't that right? The school manager, with the support of the teachers' club, imposed a one-day expulsion, which is in accordance with the regulation, because it is an abandonment of school by students. Of course, this is obviously not a punishing process. In fact, it was decided by the Teachers' Association that these absences of these hours should not be taken into account, that is, if that means that they cannot pass their classroom because they are absent. I say all this because it is important to protect the life of the school, often difficult, often contradictory, of course. But school life means some people are responsible for these kids. When children and parents do not know it, they cannot proceed in accordance with the regulations. The regulations exist to apply them. If you want, I can tell you in my dentistry in detail about the other schools you mentioned, for which there is also no one mentioned. Conclusion: I am not in any way questioning the opposition of directors to the strike mobilisation. I do not doubt that there would be some people who would express, perhaps in a way that is not too pedagogical, opposed to them. But neither a circular exists, nor is there any punishment, as far as we know, there exists. Of course, on the other hand, it must be clear why we go to school and who protects the daily life of the school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Delis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u35	First of all, Minister, I think we should be informed by the directors of Veroia and Naoussa to stop claiming that there is such a circular and invoking it by terror and threatening the students and telling them that they have no right to hold conventions. It's a right conquered by students, school communities. And, therefore, I do not think we need to say anything more. Now, about the Trikala you've been particularly stationed on. Look, it matters how a director approachs an event. You said, of course, that there is no complaint. There may not be any complaint, but there were miscarriages for the students who made the crime leave the school and go to the mobilisation that the unions called on that day, which was also a day of pan-Hellenic, general strike for the private sector as well, I remind you, but also for the public. Look, this particular director of what he's done since the first moment was to give these kids a miscarriage. And that, of course, is a measure of terror, in our view, a measure of intimidation, so that they mind, of course, warning their parents to abide by their children, not to participate in such events. Only you know, Minister, school is not just to learn spelling or equations. In our view, school has a wider role, it must discipline a man in such a way that he himself becomes the master of his life and the protagonist of his life. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Now, with regard to what you said about the democratic school, I am surprised to hear you say that there are no terrorist phenomena. I have read you some of these, I have told you some of them. In those days we had other cases of this kind, too. And, in fact, a few days before the strike, an indication of the climate that existed and continues, unfortunately, to exist in several schools - I am not saying to all, and alas, I am talking about the directors, that is, about the rings of the administrative mechanism that you - in Xanthi, but also in Yannina, in the effort of the CNS to discuss with high school students and the right, of course, which the Communist youth of Greece has to campaign for the mobilisations and the strike, we have even the intervention of the police, the police of the DIAH Group, to dismantle such debates. That showed and shows the extent, if you like, of terrorism and intimidation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Now, Minister, with the democratic school you mentioned, I think that it is really a democratic school that will allow students to participate in the mobilisations organized by their parents, their unions, their people's movement, to participate and decide themselves to participate in mobilisations for their school, their problems, the mergers that, apparently, will continue, for the lack of books, especially in the lack of teachers, for the fact that they pay foreign-language books, for the fact that the cost of education is now forbidden for too many people's families. And this right, unfortunately, I repeat, managers, teachers, to the sad role of the childbirth, are trying to deprive this right of these children. And, of course, it is not at all progressive to send this message to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u37	Firstly, with regard to circulars, we are not going to tell the managers that there is no circular because circular does not exist. The managers know that, so they can't invoke it. Most important, however, students know that, as you know very well. The students of the school communities know exactly what is and what is not there. We do, but we cannot every time say and prove that we are not elephants, which our people say. So here, I would ask you not to create a climate where there is no. Secondly, it makes me a terrible impression that no complaint has come to the Ministry at all, either from parents or from students or from anyone else. Isn't that what surprises you? I am not saying that you make these, but try to protect both your schools and your party, because we need to check this type of complaints. So here I would like to say - and I call on parents, parents' associations, school communities, etc. - where there are such phenomena, the first thing they need to think about is to send complaints to the Ministry and to the addresses. As you well know, in schools beyond the director, there is also the association of teachers. It is a democracy cell, the teachers' association, and many times we have too many positive things to say about the teachers' club, which not only plays a pedagogical role, but also a role to protect democratic conquests in schools. On the issue of Xanthi, our own writings - it is important because if you continue, we are obliged to order some kind of examination procedure - the answers we have from the training directors and the regional directors are that there have never been any such events. You know, too, that too, many times in a tension, some moment’s irritation may occur and then neither written nor another way are mentioned. However, what is apparent from all the investigations we have done in your complaints is that the climate, which comes out and the facts do not exist. Indeed, I agree with you that school plays an interdisciplinary role. But I think - and obviously it is not the moment - that we see exactly what this education is. School is a democratic institution. It has to do with children and teachers with different perceptions, different ideologies, and fortunately all of them coexist together. It's an extremely difficult project. We owe infinitely to our teachers who have not collapsed school, university and TEI in the years of the crisis. Most importantly, however, we must protect children from making laborious situations which they too often cannot control. This is what all of us want and endurance and a discipline, as you say, over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003, "criminal responsibility of the Ministers", as in force, on 2-1-2018: A) Criminal proceedings concerning the former Minister of National Defence Mr Apostolos - Athanasios Tsohatzopoulos and B) Criminal proceedings concerning former Ministers of National Defence Mr Apostolos - Athanasios Tsohatzopoulos and Ioannis Papantoniou. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-08-S1-commons.u39	With the consent of this House at 19.05 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, 9 January 2018 at 12.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
