ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS I will inform you first of what timely questions will not be discussed. The first question under number 149/12-11-2018 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Konstantinos Karagunis, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "A good implementation of the Integrated Legal Affairs and Criminal Justice System" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr Kalogerou, due to a workload. Also the second question with number 142/11-2018, the first question of the PASOK MP, DIMARMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Delays in the course of patients from the EKAV to intensive treatment units due to a lack of medical staff", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Paulakis, due to a workload. Furthermore, the third, with number 153/13-11-2018, is the first-round question of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the Larissa General Hospital, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Polakis, due to a workload. The sixth question under No 128/11-2018, on the subject of radiopharmaceuticals, will not be discussed by the Deputy Minister of State, Mr. Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis, on the subject of radiopharmaceuticals, as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Polakis, on account of a workload. The twelfth question, under number 109/29-10-2018, of the second time question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Complaint against the commander of the hospital Kilkis for the rape of a worker", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister Mr. Paulakis, due to a workload. We will not discuss the second question with number 127/5-11-2018 on the second time question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Love the state property in Dodecanese", due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr Tsakalotou, because he is in the Eurogroup. Also, there will be no discussion of the third question under No 129/5-11-2018 of the second time question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Procedure for the authorisation and retrospective taxation of online betting companies", due to the obstruction of the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotou, because he is in the Eurogroup. The fourth question, with number 132/16/11-2018, will not be discussed in the context of the second question by MP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Evaluation of the account of the contribution of Law 128/75 on the aid of the East Attica" on account of the obstruction of the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotou, because he is in the Eurogroup. The fifth question will not be discussed under number 136/6-11-2018 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "For redundant workers of the Associations of Agricultural Cooperatives (ESA) Larissa, Elassonas, Farsalon", due to the obstruction of the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotou, because he is in the Eurogroup. Also, there will not be a debate on the seventh with number 131/6-11-2018 topical question by the Member of Parliament for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Yannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Why refuse to answer the question of the Ministry of Finance for the remainder of the “Molyviats Fund”?”, due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotou, because he is in the Eurogroup. We will not discuss the ninth question under number 99/24-10-2018, second timely question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Environmental need to increase military service", due to the obstruction of the State Secretary of National Defence Mr. Collis - Tsarouhas, due to a government mission. The tenth under number 55/11-10-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga" will not be discussed. Also, the eleventh question under number 2/1-10-10-2018 by MP 2'Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Ancillary violence was carried out by EL.AS. The demonstration of Thessaloniki that took place against the Prespecies Agreement will not be discussed. After these announcements, we come to the topical questions that will be discussed. We begin with the thirteenth number 11/10-2018 topical question of the second Athens Parliamentary I of the New Democracy Mr.Olga Kefaloyannis to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: Security deficit in the city of Athens." Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-19-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, security is a top social need and a fundamental citizen's right. It also means defending democratic institutions. Anything that undermines the instability of the sense of security in the citizens, ultimately undermines democracy itself. That is why preventing and combating crime are issues that concern us over time. Unfortunately, we have seen that over-crowded policies based on over-taxation have intensified citizens' poverty and this situation, together with the government's systematic refusal to recognise the problem of public security, has led to an explosion in crime. Athens, its centre and its neighbours are one of the biggest victims of increasing infraction. The physiognomy of Athens has been gradually altered. In particular, I will refer to the universities that we have seen have been transformed into business centres in groups that act without any control with countless cases of vandalism, which have transformed the Polytechnic and Economic University of Athens into prefectures of violence. The asylum of ideas has been abolished and has become essentially criminal asylum. At the same time, it blooms on the paramilitary, trafficking in illegal substances and street crime. Whole neighborhoods, such as Exarchia, have become orchestra groups that destroy public and private properties. Homogeneity and Silk Machinery have been abandoned under permanent conditions of violation of the law on drugs and trafficking. And the Excellency of Mars was until the first man of the most cruel crime. Today, the circulation and use of substances has simply been shifted. It's actually spread across Patisia and the surrounding areas. The problem has not been solved, it has simply been spatially reassigned. Dispersible in the neighborhoods and the center of Athens is the increase of the so-called "double crime", which makes passing citizens easy targets. Finally, it is unprecedented to disperse institutions and symbolic buildings from groups that act under so-called ideological cloaks. Madam Minister, it is certain that the security of citizens has been systematically undermined and, unfortunately, over the last four years. Protection of security is primarily a matter of political will. Operational plans and numbers reading are useful tools, however, following a clear political stance. We would therefore like you to answer what action you have taken since your taking up your duties on the situation we are describing you. What are you planning to do, namely, to prevent and combat the escalation of these phenomena? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-19-S1-commons.u3	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-19-S1-commons.u4	Mrs Kefaloyannis, after I agree with the initials you said in your question, how important it is to discuss and deal with security issues as one of the most important democratic rights, I will agree that there are issues. We never claimed, I never claimed that there were no issues of crime and infraction. However, I would like to disagree that these issues are dealt with quite often as new or growing, with a conscious attitude from the Government and SYRIZA, to the issues of lawlessness. I will strongly disagree with that. Reading your timely question, I see you referring to "safety deficit, extreme crime phenomena, rapid outbreak of crime, insecurity conditions, the city that has become a man of violence and lawlessness". This all gives an idea that Athens is a man of lawlessness, a cave of robbers - one would say it - a camp of crime and a city dominated by fear and insecurity. I won't agree with you on that. I appreciate - and Mr Harakopoulos said so in his position - that the next challenge of the elections will not only be economic issues, but will also be the issues of lawlessness and security. I think this is a conscious displacement from the New Democracy side. I understand that, but it does not mean that it is justified. I understand there are deadlocks politically. You didn't get anything out of New Democracy. We got out of the memoranda, the pensions aren't cut, the "cutter" didn't come, the country didn't collapse. I understand this, but there's a reality. Reality I think it disguises and reality can, in addition to a general appreciation of everyone's ideological lens, seem different, but what is happening is that, in the three years 2015-2017 in Athens, we had an increase of 49% in arrests compared to the three-year period 2012-2014. I'll testify in detail all the numbers in the Minutes for everyone to be at the disposal of. I won't mention the paintings one by one. I'll testify to them, too. At this point, the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Olga Gerovasili, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice) I would remind you that there have been police operations for these days and within Exarcheia, where for many years and over your days it was really unbaptised, with the arrests in Exarcheia increasing by 22%. Remember that issues of infringibility were also in your day, matters of importance and importance both in the universities and in the center of Athens and elsewhere. I would remind you, however, that what you did at the time was to abolish 6,700 organic positions in the police. I would remind you that the City Police were abolished at the time at one night, and the police were charged with a duty, and there was no corresponding planning. Recently, of course, Mr. Mitsotakis said that there was no need for any new recruitment to the police. The economic crisis really - I will agree with you - has extended the phenomena of transgression, especially of small and medium-sized violence, but we also have issues of great violence and crime. What evidence shows is that from 2015 to 2018 there is a downward trend in crimes such as forgery, intellectual property crimes, sexual exploitation, homicide, rape. Large criminal groups were dismantled, coils with international connections. I remind you of the coils that stole hospital equipment, the others that channeled anticancer drugs abroad. Cases have been identified and persecuted for murder and kidnapping cases. In the Attica region in the first nine months of 2018 compared to that in 2017 there is a decrease in several categories of offences from 5% to 30%. As far as drugs are concerned, I must mention the very high rate of detection of cases. The tables contain accurate data. I would also like to take note here of the great success of the Greek Police last week in cooperation with Ecuador and the United States, a major success in dismantling an international criminal organisation that carried huge quantities of cocaine by sea. Greek participants were arrested in this operation. Finally, I would like to tell you about the 'PERSCE' programme. It is a plan that is in place for about a month now, mainly in order to deal with micro-parapathy, as a programme of obvious policing, and is, of course, based on the deterrent presence of the police. It provides for visible on-board patrols in each area of the country every day and every 24 hours. The first elements in the Attica region for this period show that we have increased arrests by 130%. Also, a recent example is the dismantling of a criminal group in the Acharnon region, whose members were robbing drivers, pedestrians and train passengers. I stress - and you have said - the successful operation in the Marios Field, but a corresponding operation has also been carried out in the Filippi area, and these regions have today been delivered to the public, without any signs of violations in the region. Of course, phenomena are not being eliminated. Yes, the issue of drug users - because this is all about both these regions and, above all, the Mars field - is not about the police, or at least it is not just about the police. The police have a role, but it's not a solution to arrest the user. It is a complex, complex problem, and I think you will agree with me, that we need a coordinated effort here by many actors and civil society. Mrs. Kefaliannis, we are monitoring and evaluating the course of implementation of the existing operational plans. We are intervening and reviewing wherever necessary and, where necessary, intervening with necessary, organisational and institutional areas, with the aim of the Greek Police working effectively and efficiently, with a democratic institutional framework and open to society. The drugs issue - I think you will agree - and crime is a multifactorial issue. The role of the police is decisive. We will step up efforts in all the fields - in what you have already said - because, for us too, establishing the sense of security of citizens as a people's people, horizontal for all, I think it is a project, with respect, of course, for individual human rights. We will also be working in this direction in the next period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-19-S1-commons.u5	Mrs Kefaliannis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-19-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much. Minister, I would first like to acknowledge as positive that you are aware of the design deficit and adequate policing. You have recognised what we have been pointing out for so many years, even now. Obviously for this reason, as you said, for about a month or so you have implemented the project "PERSEEOS". Of course, you didn't have time to announce it and a group of fifty people vandalised the Omonia Police Department. Beyond damage, he spread the horror, after lives were at stake. I mention this because the attacks of this type confirm that the organised violence groups have, unfortunately, been devastated and this underlines the impossibility or reluctance of the government to implement the law. Nevertheless, the introduction of a 24-four-four-four police uniform is a measure that we have publicly supported for too long. For a long time now, we have pointed out that it is necessary to re-activate the DELTA group and strengthen the DIA group, and this is because in the center of Athens, which is driven by street crime, in order for pedestrian patrols to work, must be framed by integrated design and supported by police teams with motorised equipment. I mention these, for example, at planning level. At data level, indeed, statistics are useful tools and our work is assisted. Imprinting reality is a process that is not always delimited by numbers, because reality is shaped by everyday life, the common sense of citizens, their protests, their needs, their experiences, as they themselves express them. As a member of the First District of Athens, I am constantly talking to the citizens of my city and I can have an integrated view. Since, however, we need and are talking about numbers, we should say that the results are extremely disappointing, because in the first half of 2018, for Attica in particular, in relation to its counterpart 2017, we have an increase in felony crimes in the following: fraud, sexual crimes, traffic of counterfeiting, smuggling, violation of laws on drugs and weapons, forgery, sexual exploitation and physical increase of thefts and burglaries. The figures are the official publications of the Directorate-General for Police of Athens. I'm sure you know them. I'm just figuring it out, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Olga Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above figures, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Madam Minister, security and freedom are complex. One presupposes the other. We will never be able to develop economic and socially without a sense of security for citizens. We believe in modernising and strengthening policing, with continuous staff training, with support to logistical infrastructure and equipment, incentives for police personnel, not motives with an election perfume, but because we believe in services and their work. Yes, the prevention of phenomena with operational planning to promote the relationship of trust between police and civilians. Not in the devaluation and the ideoleptic domination of reality. Civil security is neither right-wing nor left-wing policy. It is a state's moral and constitutional obligation, and only through it is the freedoms of the individual really widened. It is our duty to deal with all these self-proclaimed punishments, to all kinds of enemies of democracy. Violence must be condemned absolutely and regardless of ideological origin. There's no good or bad violence. Whoever gives it an ideological alibi basically consents to its use. From wherever fear and insecurity come, they must be condemned. Freedom and democracy presupposes public security, and above all they need strong political will.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-19-S1-commons.u7	Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-19-S1-commons.u8	I agree that the security of citizens and the sense of security of citizens are prerequisites for the integration of democracy and, of course, democracy as a constant demand is understood to need all the things that we are planning and implementing to be adapted accordingly in every period and that is exactly what we are determined in terms of political leadership to propose. I mentioned some evidence before about the situation in Athens. These figures, as I have told you, show that, although there are problems, there are still no such rises in all these offences that we are discussing. The evidence I submitted also demonstrates the determination and effectiveness of the Greek Police. For all these cases, which prove that the actions of the House in Athens are continuous, too many press releases have emerged and are announced every day. Depending on the rest of Greece, of course. I believe that the strong action of the Greek police is the factor that restricts crime. And I would like to insist on the word 'limits' because it would be pointless to talk about abolition. But it is important what we are creating and what is the real picture. Our country, as you know, is considered one of the most secure destinations in Europe. Visitors to Greece exceeded thirty-three million in the last year and Athens has certainly become a destination for the whole year at a level that is competitive with the other metropolitan cities of Europe. Recently the United States announced our country's stay in the US Visa Waiver Programme, while the State Department in the new consultative travel programme for 2018 ranks Greece at level 1, namely in the safest countries in their category with the lowest risk for the safety of American travellers. The decisions confirm the role of Greece as a pillar of security and stability in the region. In conclusion, I would like to stress once again that it has started, that it has been adjusted, that the effort has been started a long time ago by my presence at the Ministry, a serious organised effort with design and hierarchies, to reduce, deal with crime and strengthen the sense of security for citizens. The effort already being made has begun to produce results. I want to assure all citizens, at every corner of Greece, that we will continue on this road, with commitment and with insistence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-19-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. We move to the eighth, with number 100/25-10-2018, a topical question of the Attica Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "With tied hands to the Greek Police, while the illegality rises to the Greek universities." The Minister of Citizen Protection will answer, Mr. Gerovalis. Please, Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-19-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, following on from the debate where you left it with your last speech, I would like to say to you, and to those who are listening to us at the moment, that in the Change Movement we believe that the instability of the sense of security of citizens is the third pillar of the state, as we mean, in the broad sense, the social state. Because it is socially good - as important as health and education - the instability of feeling of security. Therefore, not only do we guarantee the highest good and the value of democracy, but we provide citizens with the euphoria with these three pillars, as I said, which they very much need, from their everyday lives to the important parts of their lives, as is their entry or graduation from the universities. But before I go into this, let me take another point, and if you want to, ask and challenge you, because you have to come sometime. The Democratic Alliance, the Change Movement, had already submitted to your predecessor, Mr Toska, precisely because we believe in the importance of this good of security, an overall question on the issues relating to your portfolio. It's the national tragedy, it's the change, you're here. We thought it appropriate, Minister, to leave time for you to take up your duties in full. Shortly after the opening of this session, Mr President, we have tabled this question again and I would like to ask Mrs Gerovas, the Minister for Civil Protection, to come and answer the question of the Change Movement, so that we can have a year to discuss many issues relating to crime, security, policies, what is not happening and what is to be done. I now come to the subject, which is violence, lawlessness in universities, their appalling outbreak in recent years, combined - but in time there was a combination - with the outbreak of incidents of police attacks and attacks on the well-known reasonings, the 'Rubicon' and others, with the aim of hurting the prestige, the sense of responsibility and, if you like, the very value of each police officer in his work, in what he produces and provides to the Greek citizen. I would like to remind you - and I will present it for the Minutes - a time-frame of events from 10 October, Minister, which begins the occupation of office 516 in the Philosophy School by the Ruvikon. In the next few months, embolism becomes the above-mentioned attack of 50 anti-semitismists in the AT Omonia and we have the injury of the police, and then we have an ongoing outbreak of the phenomena in the universities, and the Philosophy School with the occupation of "Ruvikon", where we have the human chain of the teachers, we have the attempt of the "Ruvikon" to recapture, which was done. But what do we have? We have members of SYRIZA, such as Mr Kyritsis, who say "we, the academic community will deal with these issues" and at the same time we have at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and at the University of Economic Extreme of Crime, Drug trafficking, Drug trafficking and Terror, really, which is expressed through calls from the Republican authorities to intervene with the police and some of the police that I would like to discuss, and now that you answer me, but also in my denology. We have all these phenomena, Minister, and Mr Gabroglou, your colleague - why is the government united, as you know - what does it say? It says 'Where are the students?'. I don't understand. Are you asking the students to self-sufficient? And anyway, since the 25th of October that question was tabled, there has been a second wave of violence, with the unbelievable conclusion of the professor in front of the ATM again at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and the woman who was again the victim of a robbery. The incidents at the Aristotle University - as in the others I mentioned, and unfortunately too many IGCs in the country - are incidents that do not only demonstrate incidents, Minister, but an organised crime. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Christophilopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And you will allow me to tell you beyond the figures that these kinds of incidents come in combination with the attack suffered by the Greek Police of various kinds of hams, anarchists and anti-powermen. Let them believe what they want. The violence not to move. Everyone is free to believe what they want and peacefully to spread their ideas. But as an organised state, we cannot accept violence and I hope you will agree with me. And do something about it at last. Tell me: What are you going to do about these outrages of violence and lawlessness? Will you continue - as Mr Gabroglou says, and as your Government seems to do - to undermine these situations?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-19-S1-commons.u11	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-19-S1-commons.u12	Mrs Christophilopoulou, first of all, let me tell you that, of course, with all those who believe that anyone who does not believe their own truth will be forced by their own violence, I am obviously - and we are - vertically opposed. We are serving the principles of democracy with the difficulties of serving democracy, but we are determined to do so. And on this occasion I would like to tell you that it is presented in the public space, in the public debate, that the city is now being destroyed or that the Greek universities are being destroyed. You know I don't deny that there are real facts and problems and incidents. But I refuse to accept that there is this picture that is usually presented as filming Ben Hur, with events that we are dramatizing as much as necessary to get the film result. That's what I'm gonna disagree with. In other words, I am prepared to discuss as thoroughly as necessary. And of course the question will also be answered and it is an opportunity to say more than it is in a timely manner with the short time available to us. On this occasion, therefore, I would like to make clear our position and my position on academic asylum, since this is the focus of the debate, whether or not the asylum law came to bring and exacerbate problems or whether, before that law, the problems were solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-19-S1-commons.u13	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-19-S1-commons.u14	Oh, no. You obviously didn't say that. But I say this in general, Mrs Christophilopoulou. Because you know very well that since 2011, which had no protection for academic asylum, the issues have been there, the problems have been there and the treatment has been - I think - and less tension than today. So, with this 2017 law on higher education, there is a clear provision that for felonies and crimes against life, it is self-evident to intervene in the field of HR. The fire extinguisher can't interfere. And in the event of crimes, the dean decides whether or not the police are involved, the dean's council, which is made up of dean, is being called back, the student's representative and the representative of administrative staff. It does not mean that the blow within the university is not persecuted. It is normally persecuted and punished, it is simply the police who cannot enter freely, i.e. without a dean's board permit, at the university in the event of a delinquency. This provision lays down - and fortunately - the roles of asylum-related persons. So we are determined to comply with the law. We consider the current institutional framework for asylum to be correct. In this institutional context, we are operating and will continue to operate. Arrangements ensure the free movement of ideas, protect free expression of opinion, and for these freedoms many struggles have been fought in this country and in the past. The abolition of asylum has not solved the problems. There were occupations, there were catastrophes, thefts, robberies and infraction. In the period 2012-2014, although there was no asylum, the Polytechnics and the University of Economics, there were too many cases of drug offences. So I come to say that it is not what causes us the problem, that is university asylum. But I will not accept the assessment that illegality, infractionality have exceeded every limit, that the police have hands tied up, as you say in the question, because no one tied up the hands of the police. The police are acting within the legal framework of this country and with the guidance of prosecutors and I think that the police are showing significant performance in their role. Nowadays, the effectiveness of the police at universities and around them has improved. For example, six hundred five arrests took place in Thessaloniki in the period 2015-2018 and in the period 2012-2014 only a hundred forty had been committed. Around the Athens University of Economics, arrest rates increased 21.7% for thefts, robberies, drugs, damage of buildings, shops and vehicles, compared to the period 2012-2014. In 2018, the University of Athens confirmed two hundred twelve violations and two hundred ten arrests. The Aristotelian University - by the way, for the robbery you mentioned near the ATM was arrested the next day the perpetrator - has sent to the police and the public prosecutor a request for continued intervention and checks by the police within the University. On the basis of this request, the police have planned and acted to deal with all these violations and, of course, the police have also made hundreds of forty-eight operations, and in the area of ADR there have been two hundred and thirty-nine arrests. As I told you, the Greek Police always intervenes when they have the order from the Republican authorities, at the same time informing the public prosecutors. The violation, of course, is not only about universities, and it is not only about police repressive actions. Those projects that have been set up exclusively on the repressive actions of the police worldwide have failed because these issues are being dealt with - and I do not mean they end or are being abolished - when there is real cooperation between the university and the state. We will therefore continue to address these issues methodically by taking the appropriate measures, without establishing a status of police rule at universities. The police will continue to intervene according to the law. Our aim, of course, is to ensure, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, that the university community, teachers, students, staff, will continue to operate within a framework of security and freedom of expression and movement of ideas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-19-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, too. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor for three minutes for her denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-19-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I will start by saying this: away from us or any attempt at drama. And if you hear some tension in my voice, that's not for the sake of drama. I know you didn't say about me. I am just saying that when we speak with tension about certain things, it is because, if you like, we sympathize and understand the problems and feelings of the people we represent. I am sure you, as a colleague, are doing the same. Let us look at the problems objectively. I will agree with you that any law in itself will not solve the problem. So neither the 2011 Act in this sense - and even a two-thirds law in this House - solved the problem in itself, nor did anyone believe that only by voting on a law solve the problem, nor by today's law. What's wrong with the problem? But then where do I disagree? I will agree that the problem needs synergy and prevention, but of course also repression where it is needed. But let's see what really happened. I accept that arrests are made and police have even intervened in the HR - I have a different number from yours, but I accept yours - and indeed in Thessaloniki the police have entered. However, I would like to make two points which are very important to us. The first is that in principle some of the violence and lawlessness is being done in the environment and not in the most important university area, in which we must, of course, defend free teaching and free movement of research and ideas. So, what happens when around the law is drug trafficking and trafficking and when students go to school, they see these incidents? You understand that there other standards work and other messages go through. At the same time - I say again - on the merits of the Greek Police - in which we firmly believe and which is there and I am sure you live it every day, Madam Minister - that there is an attempt to feed the morality of the Security Forces, the Security Bodies, when there are incidents like this at the Omonia Police Department or incidents like this unacceptable incident that occurred in the courts, with the anti-powered officers threatening the police to kill them. I say this because there is a qualitative dimension of things. I now come to see together, Minister, the number issue. I well accept all the numbers you've told me and I'll get them from the Minutes to have them. But I also ask you and every reasonable citizen: when we have an outbreak of crime, there will obviously also be an increase in the number of arrests and the corresponding statistics of EL.AS.Huh? Any citizen with a naked eye can see that there is an outbreak of crime and around the universities and outside the universities, but also in the center of Athens and everywhere. So the numbers you give me, I'll tell you that I see them and accept them, but at a critical look, because you cannot tell me that now, on your own days, the arrests are increasing, unless we see synergy and function with the phenomena of violence and the phenomena of lawlessness as they have increased. Finally, with regard to drugs. Mr President, I would just like your tolerance for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-19-S1-commons.u17	I would like to ask you and the Minister, because in ten minutes the report of the President of the Republic will be presented to Peristyl, to respect the time. Otherwise, I'd give you more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-19-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I shall conclude. I will only say one element for the Minister to be able to answer, because we have referred to your law, which says that in the case of crimes it is acting on its own initiative, and because I have complaints from fellow academics asking me 'drug trafficking is not a felony'. Of course, there are issues, but I'm telling you that neither your own law, as it was voted on, - we did not vote for him - it works. It's not a matter of law, Minister. But even this law apply him. When I say don't leave it with tied hands, I mean: Leave the police where it needs - and it's not incidents, but it's an organised situation like at the University of Thessaloniki - to draw up an operational plan. I am pleased that you have mentioned to me - and I am ending with something positive - that the rectorship has asked the Greek police for constant monitoring, because this is the only way to dismantle the circuits through the universities, by agreeing, in a final debate, that drugs require too many synergies and that is a very complicated matter, it is not just a question of repression. The cops know that many times themselves. You have services that know how to prevent and do other kinds of actions than simple and in the narrow sense of repression. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-19-S1-commons.u19	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-19-S1-commons.u20	I shall speak very quickly, Mr President, since I say that I am very pleased that we have today and with Mrs Kefaliannis and Mrs Christophilopoulou, one of the main debates. I guess security is a woman's case, and right now it's proved more than ever. I'll be at your disposal to discuss every time you want. Let me just mention for the University of Thessaloniki that there is now a plan drawn up by the police, because no one bothers the police, nor plan nor attempts. It is another role for political leadership, and it is another role for physical leadership and I think that physical leadership - and the new police chief - is determined to be decisive to issues. I only mention that in the area of ADI we have in 2012-2014 a hundred forty-one arrests, in 2015-2018 six hundred five arrests and around the University of Athens, we also have - not to mention numbers - an increase of 21.7%. This means that the actions of the police are increasing in the face of the problem, because the problems, as you know, are changing and changing. Infringibility is never the same, it changes forms, so, and the Greek Police must quickly, flexiblely, effectively go through a new design and implementation. What is certain is that it has been attempted in the public speech - I am not saying you, Mr Christophilopoulou - to pass the message that political leadership is preventing the physical leadership and the police from acting. It's an incredible myth, because who would do that and why? Also, the other logic that says that SYRIZA suffers criminals and I don't know what else is another myth for people who behave violently when they want to impose their opinions. And that's a huge legend. To you, then, where you are on the other side rather than the New Democracy, I would like to remind you of what they gave Papandreou in relation to 17 November and to members of your own party, when those people then wanted to hurt your own party through these myths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-19-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-19-S1-commons.u22	With the agreement of the House at no time of 17.52 the sitting for the next Wednesday, 21 November 2018, at 12 noon, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
