ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We begin with the third with number 1338/19-3-2018, a top-level question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The choice of Mr. Tsakalotou's political existence as a judge of his budget." I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is prepared to give us an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Democratic Assent has withdrawn from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and has denounced a procedure with complete opaque for the selection of the head of the Parliament's Budget Office as the procedure provided for in the Rules of Procedure has not been observed, since the candidates' CVs and the other candidates have not been notified to the committee and the Bureau has not taken care of the consent required in the case of selections of independent authorities, which must go beyond the parties' choices. On the contrary, the majority chose to place a party executive in this critical position. The question that concerns you, Mr Minister, is this. You are a member of the majority who took this decision, in which you play a leading role. And the most important thing for you - which I consider to be insulting, because I think you have a dignity - is that you have put your political authority to monitor the implementation of the budget, which you are proposing and Parliament is voting on, and from its institutional role it is obliged to make suggestions and observations, which we are discussing in the relevant committee of Parliament, on the basis of the quarterly reports drawn up by the Bureau for the Budget of Parliament. In fact, corrective action must be taken in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of these labellings and suggestions. Well, Minister, you have either been ignored and underestimated or made a personal choice to appoint your "official" because your political official and existing is the Secretary-General for Budget Policy, so that you can keep your head quiet in the implementation of the budget. One of them is happening. That's why we called you here, tell us what your personal position is. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President, and thank the honourable Member very much for this question. I thank him in particular, without any hypocrisy for what I'm saying. Because, as you know, Mr President, and my dear colleague, the left and the paws have one thing in common: they are big hearts and they never seem to be petty. As a pockjacker, I can accept that the best passer in the history of Greek volleyball was not a pawboat, but Mustakidis, who, as you know, gave great passes and the others ratted. The question that Mr Koutsoukos asks me is at such a level that we can call it from now on 'Mustakides of PASOK', because it gives me the great opportunity to explain the enormous difference between the process with the previous governments and the one that is being followed today. I remember Mrs Balafousia, before Takis Liargova, made a report saying that Greek debt is not sustainable and Mr Venizelos kicked her out the other day. The next day she kicked Mrs Balafucia away, because in one piece, in a report she said that debt is not sustainable. In fact, Mr Venizelos justified this because the international organisations said that debt is sustainable when the IMF obviously said that because otherwise it could not be in the programme. I do not actually go into it, if it was wrong or Mrs Balafucia was right. The next day they kicked her out immediately. What did we do? When we came to things, we kept Mr. Liargova for his entire term of office. Only once did we disagree with the media - which was a matter of events - where he explained that he made a great mistake in calculating the interest rates that the Greek Government needs to pay for the coming years. The man who is very serious answered: “You are right, Euclid. I didn't have the evidence." Maybe he made a review of the fact that this evidence had to have it earlier and that his term of office was over and we changed and we put someone else in. One couldn't tell how the two models were. One model was that we just don't like someone we're kicking him out and putting in some party candidate. Takis, Liargova can be my friend and have a good relationship, but he was on the lists of the New Democracy. He didn't choose a university student who wasn't agitated politically. We accepted that, we respected that, and we left it. We had a pretty good relationship. We've also been criticised. He was saying positive things, except what I told you. I think that from now on I will be waiting for further questions from Mr Koutsouko to help me in my work to "carve" as I should have been "carved". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I oppose the cold jokes of the Minister. He's introduced them from where he grew up and studied. It's not about Greek citizens. It reminds me of that old joke that the Sovietist said to the American: "And you torment blacks." I want to talk seriously, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u7	I really talked.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u8	This institution was introduced by the PASOK government, and when the institutions are introduced they are going through a stage of maturation to reach their completion and their acceptance. We've seen it on too many occasions. I would remind you of the classic case of SAAP, which is an institution which has been fought by many, but today everyone accepts it and invoke it. The House's Budget Office had chosen the previous head with a cross-party, I would say, consensus. No one would believe that you a man who communicates with the institutions, the old troika - now quartet - and you have signed your signature where he says about the colonisation, you have signed your signature to the Independent Public Income Authority with the control of lenders, you have signed your signature at the supranational with the control of lenders, everywhere you have signed, you would not insist today on a state-issued conception of institutions. I have heard this notion in SYRIZA's ranks that we have taken the government, but we have not yet taken the power. Your choice, and I regret that you support it as a top member of the government, identifies the institution of the Parliament's Budget Office which is responsible for observing budgetary developments, making comments and suggestions, with a party official. I must tell you that you have a lot of teachers from your first grades in universities that do not have the stamp of the Central Committee. You have appointed your entire central committee, there is hardly anyone left without being paid by the public. So you could make a decent consensual choice that would obviously be intent on you. You overlooked the entire institutional process. Even the candidates’ curriculum vitae were not given to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of the House that made the choice. You also gave your consent, not to say that you indicated - I cannot know that, only you can tell the House and it is interesting, Minister, to say so - your political existence to control you and make suggestions on your own budget. This is if it's not a deep settlement, what else is it? So you must apologise and leave Mercedes or BMW of Mr Venizelos where he is. And when you decide to come to the House and answer my questions, I would be delighted to do more "tracks" in my own efforts. However, I would like to tell you that this terminology of mine does not express me. Use it. With your pleasure and pleasure. I want a civilised, political dialogue, because I believe that from this position of the top minister you have a huge responsibility, not only for matters relating to the country's course, for debt, for which you have not come here to answer Mr Venizelos, since you have referred to Mr Venizelos, who has asked you the relevant question but also for the institutions. Here, with your participation, your contribution, your contribution - I would say - you have contributed to the distortion of a leading and crucial institution for controlling public finances. I'm sorry, but the news isn't good, the way you told us. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u10	I'm sorry, Mr. Kutsuko. You said about BMW and Mr. Venizelos' Mercedes. I didn't mention that. You talked about the superstition. You did not speak on the substance. On the substance, your ex-secretary, when he did not like a phrase in a text, changed it. Yes or no? Secondly, you tell me that it was done in open procedures last time. And now to tell you that PASOK was the worst, as always the worst, in the client's state, because in the previous choice, when Mr Liargova came out, the three parties then you put one man. New Democracy put one in, one in PASOK and one in DMAR. And in honor of Mr Meimarakis - not of PASOK, of the status quo PASOK, which is within the client-state, it is the body of the client-state - when we questioned it and said that it is not right, that it is not pluralist, that is, man immediately said: 'Yes, it is not'. And, indeed, he made an extension of the committee from three to four to give a different view. That's the truth. That's what happened. As for the current and lead, I fear that, as your own conference has pointed out, you are very far behind. I criticise not only existing people, which you say, I accept, but also ordinary citizens and symbols and non-symbolists and I am always ready for criticism. And I have to tell you that Mr. Koutedakis did an excellent job in the accounting office. The fact that we always have a surplus is from his job. He fully understands the government's budgets. And we choose people, instead of you, because they are worthy, and we know how to distinguish those who are worthy of those who are not worthy. You should know that within our development plan it is to hit the client state, because you have been building it thirty years, you have loved it for thirty years, and if you return, there will be another thirty years. That's why we don't want you anymore, because this client state is synonymous with PASOK, it has the PASOK seal. You're his inspiring, and you're going to go on with it. Answer me what Mr Venizelos has done, answer me on the substance and forget the rest. At least my jokes have some jokes. Yours are sober.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers of National Defence, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Economics have today tabled a draft law: "Following the military cooperation agreement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan". The Ministers of National Defence, Finance and Foreign Affairs have now submitted a draft law: ‘Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of National Defence of Canada and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia and the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway and the Minister of Defence of National Defence of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Defence of National Defence of Romania and the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of Slovakia and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of the Republic of Norway as well as well as the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Iceland and the Republic of the Republic of Iceland and the State of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Iceland and the Republic of Israel’. Finally, the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Finance, Administrative Reconstruction and the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs tabled a draft law: ‘Strengthening the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Albania to speed up the process of accession of the Republic of Albania to the European Union’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, parliamentarian Vassilias Kikilias is requesting permission from a short-day absence in Israel, from Tuesday, March 27th to Thursday, 29th, 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u12	The House therefore approved the requested permission. MEP George Koumoutsakos also asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons from 28 March to 1 April 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u13	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The fifth will be discussed under number 1371/20-3-2018, a top-level question for the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "What is the exact balance of the bank account of Law 128/1975?". Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, my question is very simple. What's the rest of a bank account? But you and I, through the parliamentary control procedure, know that the information and content of this question are much more complex. What I ask you, Minister, is - if I have understood well - for twenty-five years now banks have retained the money of borrowers, while in Decision 1975/1991 of the Bank of Greece, Mr Halikia, these contributions had to be abolished. So I would like your opinion, Minister, from now on: from 1991 to 2015, the banks illegally withheld the money of Greek borrowers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u16	Mr Colleague, we have discussed this before. It is an issue that changed in the course of the procedure, given that these concessions were intended for export operations, which DG Competition, the Competition Directorate, decided that they were state aid. There's nothing illegal about retention. All that has happened is that the direction in which this money was going has changed, namely by going for export activities to support state activities, now go to the firefighting people and other such groups. I have to tell you there's nothing illegal. It is a big account, as you say in your question, at the Bank of Greece. Under this large account there are various accounts in which the account we are discussing is the account. But I don't see why you're worried. We must have a debate, but this must be done not in the context of a question but in the context of some legislative intervention. It is another thing if you think that this retention should not be made of the loans to the firefighting people. I hear that that is why there are arguments both for and against. I don't want to say anything more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u18	You haven't answered the rest of me, Minister. How will I answer, Mr President? He didn't give me the answer. That was the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u19	Mr Colleague, the Minister gave you this answer. Excuse me now. What can we do? You have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u20	Minister, you didn't answer the question, what's the rest of the bank account at the moment? That's how you deprive me of my answer, because I have no right to tritology. That's what's happening right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u21	You said that, Mr. Colleague. Don't be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Comrade, I thought I explained it. Just because it's an account that's inside a bigger one, it's hard what you're asking me to give it to you by numbers. It's not an account by itself. It's a sub-account, in the big account that comes in with the money we get from the ESM, that comes in with the money we collect from the market exits. That's it. If you didn't understand, that's my answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u23	All right, Minister. Very good. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, six months ago there had been a timely question for Mr Tsakalotos. In this timely question, we had asked which is September 2017 the balance of this account. So, then, Mr Tsakalotos said that 2015's receipts, if I remember well, were 450 million euros and 2016's receipts were 430 million euros. It had emerged from there that the purpose of the specific contribution by Law 128/1975 had been changed by Law No.4336, the Ministerial Law. Some provision within a hypothesis had put on what had changed the purpose, and since then the specific contributions for the victims of terrorist attacks, for the firemen, for earthquakes and for many others would have been made. But, Mr President, in the course of parliamentary scrutiny, what emerged, following the official information from the Ministry which I will also present in the Minutes, is that, by decision of Mr Chalikia the Governor of the Bank of Greece in 1991, this contribution had been abolished, it had not changed its purpose, as the Minister says. Therefore, from 1991 to August 2015 when the new legislation comes, this contribution was unlawfully withheld by borrowers. Therefore, in the absence of this decision, Mr Haliki's 1975/1991, with what new decision, by which ministerial decision, by which provision, by which decision of the Governor of the Bank of Greece, was this no longer in force? One is that. A second question of very important importance is the following. I will submit to the Minutes of the Ministry of Finance, where contributions from 1991 to 2015 amounted to 9 billion. The payments that came out of this account, Mr President, amount to 5 billion. Where are the other four billion? Whatever money, Minister, and the specific account in question is not justified at the moment. It's absurd, Minister. Do you think that makes sense for 100 million to cut pensions for 100 million to lose people's homes? Do you find it reasonable that there should be money in an account that has a different purpose, and we at the moment should not offer legal aid, legal protection for borrowers, which will come from borrowers themselves? Whatever money you have in the account, Minister, do you think that makes sense? Also about what money you have in, it will surely follow another question tomorrow, because you clearly have not come prepared, Minister, to answer the question. She was very clear. How much money does that account have in it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u26	I don't understand your tension. Things are a little simpler. I shall submit to the House in the Minutes the 1992 Act, which means the opposite of what you said, that it is completely legal, and has new laws that says so. I don't know if I'm going to testify, but my partners are here to explain why you're reading the decision of the then Governor of the Bank of Greece. Thank you. [[At this point, the Minister, Euklidis Tsakalotos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, as I've explained to you, I've given you the evidence of the flows. But since the stock can be used through what I am presenting to you elsewhere, it is not easy to give you the stock. I give you the flow every year how much it is and how much it is spent on important things. I don't think this money's going to the wrong place, but it's at your disposal to talk about it again. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, fifteen students and students and two educational attendants from the Elementary School of Heads of Kos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here is the second question, under number 1337/19-3-2018, on the second question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'What is the fate of the cash reserves of "OLTH SA" of EUR 65,108.327,16, after the transfer of the majority of public shares to private individuals?' Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is assumed that a public limited company, particularly in the form and scope of the Greek Port Authority, has various records in its accounts and that there are various amounts used for various purposes. In this case, the Port Authority of Thessaloniki, with its half-yearly financial report of 30 June 2017, which it posted on its website, states that it has tax-free reserves at its disposal, total amount of EUR 57,455,943,56 plus the regular reserve of EUR 65,108,327,16. So these are within the company's fund and are treated as capital that is available for new investments by the Port Authority of Thessaloniki. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The decision to privatise because the shares belonged to the GOI led to a tender, which resulted in the company being transferred to a consortium of companies. I do not doubt that. What I am referring to here is: If during the negotiations or at the previous stage of signing the contract between the Greek State and the OLF, which was the step, as you know to prepare for the transfer of shares, because this contract was ratified by law by Parliament, we have received the provision for this amount of about 65 million, if we have a price that has been retained or distributed to the old shareholders, such as the main shareholder, in order not to be - because you know, Minister, in these cases we are giving a distorted message several times - a cash reserve, which has been paid to the new owners, if we have a price that has been paid yesterday or the previous one, as I read in the newsletter, EUR 231 million, which was the price of the transfer of 75% of the shares of the State, and since there is this reserve, in the company's cash fund, you can understand that the money is actually being reduced in the amount of money in the cash. If we are talking about investment reserves, then the obligation imposed by the acquiring company on projects and investments during the first 180 million period is also reduced. That is to say, from the 180 million that it is committed to investing in the new three-year period, since it already has a reserve of 65 million, we have a total of 180 minus 65 million. After that, my question is: has the State taken care of this, so that before the transfer, the Greek State can obtain this amount for the benefit of the Greek State? If not, I don't want to say it's a mistrust. I accept that he's gone away.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u29	All right, Mr. Comrade. Let the Minister answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u30	So if he escaped, does he have mechanisms and methods to recover it? For it is against the Greek public.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u31	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the question. As you can see, both concessions and privatisations are very complex things. Once you see your concession contracts, you will understand that you need more hours than a memorandum, which says the speech. In these cases you are thinking of the price, which, of course, is determined by the assets, i.e. the purchaser buys the company, buys the assets and the passive and then all the things are around. What you're burdening a deal depends on. For example, in this particular case, I think that the Government and the GOI have made a great deal of effort to increase the investment, i.e. the investments that the new company has had to make. So, in a way, we also respond to what you said towards the end of your speech, that of course we increased from what was initially in the agreement - slowly the forced investment it needs, we have put other issues on citizens' access to the sea and on pier 1, if I am not mistaken, we have negotiated for some things at the university, for cultural reasons, the concession rate has increased as a percentage of the turnover from 2% to 3.5%. I mean, it's a complicated thing. To take stock, for example, is not right. Generally speaking, a company buys both active and passive, and this is obviously in line with price. To give you the understanding, the price of a share is normally the present net value of all future gains and obviously that depends. I told you where we made greater emphasis, which I think for the citizens of Thessaloniki the most important is the investment linked to this privatisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u33	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, I should like to comment on the Minister's reply: yes, a company when it is transferred, has assets and has intangible assets and even liabilities. That's not questionable. In this particular case, however, where we are talking about privatization - a transfer of public property, because the shares belonged to the GOI, the company itself comes and notes something. That got my interest and I asked the question, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u35	What's he pointing at? I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u36	It notes in the financial statements - and it gives me the opportunity to ask the question - that the provision of the EGF Statute has already been abolished - and I shall table this - which prohibited the distribution or capitalisation of the reserves and now allows - in the light of privatisation so that the funds can be released - to distribute or make capitalised on the basis of a tax rate that will apply, within the use to be made of distribution or capitalisation. What does that mean? That at the same time - and you will allow me, Minister, to go a little bit further and to a legal point - that other legislation is in place, which also provides for this privatisation of state-owned companies and says that yes, the reserves of companies with a tax rate of 15% on what is up to 31 December 2013 capitalised, to be distributed to shareholders as profits, as an extraordinary profit or with a rate of 19% on 1 January 2014, will be distributed again in order to reduce the liquidity to be granted to the new acquirer and keep the state. The LGB - which is why I told you that I was asking the question - says that and said it on June 30, 2017. In other words, it has a right under the half-yearly financial report of 1 January to 30 June. It's official from the site of the EAT. And he says "watch out in the event of a transfer, there is the possibility to retain these 65 million in favour of the Greek State", obviously in the proportion that participated in the company's capital. It therefore did not affect the negotiation of the reserve, Mr Minister, because it was well known, it was publicised, the tender had been opened before, and it was in progress, but it did not affect the price. On the question of the investments you have put, I would like to add something else, which was not at the beginning of my question to say. It's not just that he'll keep the pier 1 of the Greek public in behalf of the residents. It's not 2.5% or 3.5% in favor of the municipalities. The concession also covers a serious obligation against the Greek State. I am talking about the term 7 of the contract and about the fact that the Greek State is obliged to build the railway line that will reach the port, to connect the port to the Egnatia road, to its own costs, and if it does not do so in time, then, as it says, ‘an extension of the first investment period will be granted from the initial final date, until the date of actual completion of these works’. Therefore, in the amalgamation of the relations you have said, the Greek State is involved and burdened. And I come back and close. So why did not provision be made on this point, which would possibly be the money that would cover public investment in the construction of the railway line or the connection to Egnatia and, in any case, operate the port? In addition, we are giving a distorting signal to subsequent aspiring privatisations, to claim the repetition of the same phenomenon, when there are cash reserves in the accounts of companies, which ultimately lower the price. These are my remarks on your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u37	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, there is not much disagreement. If there is disagreement, it will be an approach to lawyers or economists. I'm not sure we agree on one thing. I mean, I understand that the law was changed by the previous government in 2013, and I agree that on the basis of what you have read to us, the company had every right to give dividends. There is no disagreement in that. The only disagreement between us - if there is - which we can discuss further and further - is whether it would affect the price. I don't understand that, because for me it's obvious that if I took the company, say that I was buying it, with the 50 million reserves, I'd give more money than if I didn't. That's the only thing we might disagree with. Unless I don't understand well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u39	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u40	Let me finish. I might be wrong, or maybe I didn't understand anything. I understand that, and I think that neither do you have any significant difference in where we negotiated, namely investment for culture or for 2.5% and 3.5%. But that's what we can look at. In fact, this is only a disagreement, which we can discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question which will not be discussed, but I will make it first, to give just one minute to Mr Kyriazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u42	Two questions, Mr President, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u43	That's right. I'll tell you what, so I can give you the opportunity for a minute. Just restrain yourself in this minute. This is the third question with number 3195/5-2-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Drama of the New Democracy. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The establishment of the General Hospital of Drama with anesthetics and health centers of the Law with medical staff", which will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis - a cause for the burden - as it is at the Regional Conference in Central Macedonia. Also, the second question under number 3508/14-2-2018 of the circle of petitions and questions by the Deputy Drama of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "The founding of the Department of Transition and Courts of Drama and his staff with the necessary staff. Enslaved with the necessary staff at Drama's detention store, will not be discussed due to the impediment of Minister of Transparency and Human Rights Mr Stavros Kontonis. It's because of the workload. Mr Cryazides, you have asked for the floor to make a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to have your tolerance to talk about the two questions from one minute to each, if possible. I begin with the second one, but both were made as written texts from the beginning of the year and were not answered. We are, of course, talking about health issues. The first day before, in terms of a medical club, the worsening operation of the hospital was reported. I also give the letter to the Deputy Minister for Health. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitris Kyriazides, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to the Minister of Justice, Mr President, in my question about the detention of the Nikiforos store, which is not yet operational, I was told that there would be a notice in the year and that it would be sent and put into operation. In a recent reply to my colleague Mrs Arabatzis of Serres, the Minister replied that there is no possibility of functioning in 2018 and that we are going for 2019 and so on. Last Monday, Mr President, we had the same debate on the Drama Hospital and it was put to the presence and development of the Deputy Minister, who said it was a workload. He meant as a workload the café of the House, because he was in the café of the House, unfortunately. Today the same question has been repeated, it states a workload because it is at a development conference. Mr President, we must abolish this parliamentary control. You've seen it yourself. You have made a similar observation. There is no need to have this suffering, to start a debate from a remote place and not to be here by the ministers. If you want it to be done for Parliament itself, too. We recently saw the Prime Minister in Brussels becoming a "soft" to "baptize" Skopje "Gorna Macedonia". These are issues that hurt us and hurt us. The horn of the people will strike, Mr President, and awaken some from sleep. I hope it's not too late for homeland.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u45	However, the protest that the Minister is not here to stay. We must not now open up other issues, such as what the Prime Minister said. You understand that, you are an experienced parliamentarian. From a protest, let's not go where the country goes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u46	Unfortunately, since the beginning of the year you have seen a totalitarian conception, a state-of-the-art mentality, which is inconsistent with a democracy. In any case, you must abolish us in the sense of presence or, if you like, other parliamentary checks, if that suits the government. But this will not be allowed by the people, neither will we, nor you, obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr Cryazides. Your protest was recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, the first question under number 3519/14-2-2018 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Trikala in the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Rename of the “Kavrakos” Camp at the Camp of the School of Permanent Officials", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister of National Defence Mr. Panos Kammenos Kammenos. The first under number 1359/20-3-2018, the first question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Xydakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Tax rebate for foreign film production in Greece", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr.Akaterini Papanatsiou. The second question under number 1369/20-3-2018 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Mr. Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The Ministry of Finance observes the contract with the investment bank of Rothschild" with the Ministry of Finance, which will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Georgios Huliarakis, due to a workload. Due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religion Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou will not discuss the fourth question with number 1363/20-3-2018, the first question of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr.Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the problems of thousands of contractors (supplementaries and wages) of teachers. Nor will the first question of the New Democracy MP, Nikis Kerameos, be discussed for the same reason, with number 1370/20-3-2018, on the subject of "Turkish violence and lawlessness in higher institutions". Due to the impediment of the Minister of National Defence Mr Panos Kammenos, due to a governmental project consisting of a planned meeting with senior officials at the Ministry of Defence, the third will not be discussed under number 1314/13-2018, second-cycle question of the MP Laconia of New Democracy, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Suspension of operation of the Transport Supply Training Centre as a Neo-Society Training Centre". Due to a blockade by Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Paul Pavlakis, as he is in the Regional Conference in Central Macedonia, the fourth with number 1303/13-3-2018 will also not be discussed. The second question by MP Larissa of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR. Mr Konstantinos Bargiotas to the Minister for Health, on the subject: 'Taxes of thousands of patients from the pharmacy of the EEA'. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 on "criminal responsibility of Ministers", as is the case, on 26-3-2018, a criminal case for the relevant ministers for media supervision over the last 20 years and especially: Dimitrios Reppa, from 25-9-1996 to 20-3-2000, Angerio Fatouro from 20-3-2000 to 134-2000, Dimitrios Reppa from 13-2000 to 24-10-2001, Christos Protopa from 24-10-2001 to 13-2004 George from 13-2-2004 to 10-3-2004, Theodoros Rousopoulos from 29-3-2004 and from 26-5-2004 to 24-8-2007, Xenophon - Rhodos Moroni from 24-8-2007 to 19-9-2007, Theodoros Rousseopoulos from 25-9 to 24-10-2008, Prokopios Pavlos from 24-10-2008 to 4-2-2009, Konstantinos Gyuleka from 4-2-2009 to 11-9-2009, Spydoloulos from 11-9-2009 to 11-9-2009, Ioannis Ekoloulios from 11-9-2009 to 7-10-2009, Ioannis Ragosi from 7-10-11, Ioannis from 2-11, Pyllos from 2-11-11, Pydoloulios from 11-11, Pylooulios from 11-11, Pyllos from 11-11-11-11-11, Pyloon The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-26-S1-commons.u50	(a) Parliamentary control, topical and urgent debate and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
