ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continuing discussion on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘State Budget for the financial year 2019’. Before I give the floor to the first speaker for today, let me inform the House that the Vice-President of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, the Minister of Environment and Energy, Home Affairs, Education, Research and Religion, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Infrastructure and Transport, the Deputy Ministers of Environment and Energy, Health, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development, Economic and Energy and Energy, submitted on 14-12-2018 draft law: "Urgent arrangements of the Ministry of Environment and Energy - Status of 20.11.2018 Convention between the Greek Government and ENERGEAN OIL AND GAS - ENERGY AEGEAN AEGEAN ISLANDS ANIMAL INDUSTENDANCE AND INDUSTESTMENT AND INDUSTRODUSTRIAL INDUSTRIAL INDUSTRIAL ACCOUNTRIAL INVENTORS OF THE REGIONAL INVENTION OF THE REGIONAL INVENTIONAL AND REGIONAL INVENTORS OF THE COUNITAL INVENTORIES OF THE REGENUEWATORS OF THE REGENUEWATORING RESERAL INVENTION AND NEWATORIES OF THE REGENTION AND REGENTORS OF THE REGENTORS OF THE REPRENTORS OF THE REGIONS OF THE REPRENUT OF THE REPRENTION AND REGIONS OF THE REPRENTION OF THE REGION AND AWATORS OF THE REGION OF THE REGION OF THE REGION OF THE REGIONS. This draft law has been characterised by the government as urgent. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I will now give the floor to the first speaker for today, Mr Emmanuel Thraniotis. Mr Thrafaniotis, you have the floor for seven minutes and a warm request to keep time, because it is a long list of speakers. You know that. A number of colleagues are still missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning and good week. Before I place myself on the budget, Mr President, I would like to condemn the bombing of the SKAI television station. Actions such as this are destabilising for our democratic community. Secondly, since we have been in a Christmas season, I wish all good holidays with health for the whole world. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the first budget of Parliament after leaving the memoranda last August. It is a budget based on real facts, balanced and adapted to serve the needs of Greek society. A budget, which leaves the memoranda behind, with a clear orientation, in a social context, taking account of European data and of the reality. A reality hard and rigid. And whoever doesn't want to see it just wants to be blind. Issues such as social inequality, solidarity, dealing with fertility, the fight against climate change, migration, are a priority and require particular attention and solutions. The example of Great Britain with Brexit, Italy with the budget and France with the movement of workers is, for example, where the Union is going. This Europe needs to change from a Europe of markets and numbers to focus on the needs of society. If it does not change, it is at risk of dissolving. A Union that moves away from its principles. A Europe that needs to find new pace. In this context, in Europe and in our country, we need to look for the widest possible consensus on best possible solutions. In this direction is the attempt to solve problems at our northern borders. In this context, the foreign policy of our country is moving, developing partnerships with the Mediterranean countries and the Balkan countries. In this respect, it is also an attempt to reach agreement and cooperation between the countries of southern Europe of the European Union. And it is particularly important that, despite the exacerbation of the war in the Middle East, despite the enormous refugee flows that have passed through our country, our country has been a factor of stability and a safe destination. A country that, despite the problems, has inspired security, which has benefited tourism, a key pillar of our economy. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be tempted to show my responsibilities and to whom they belong. The fact is, our country went bankrupt. And, of course, it's not the first time. Whenever it went bankrupt, the causes were mismanagement, mistaken choices and, above all, peculiarisation in one way or another of the money of the loans - and not only - by the prisoners concerned and the roundabout. This government has been spending the fourth year since September 2015. The commitment was clear: exiting the memoranda, supporting weak economic groups and those who had suffered the consequences of the crisis. The exit from the memoranda took place in August. The crisis, however, remains because fiscal adjustment has been violent: the cut in wages and pensions by 25%, the loss of the tenth and fourteenth wages, the increase in unemployment by about 17% in 2009 to 27.6% in 2015, the decrease in the minimum wage, the increase in youth unemployment and migration. These policies and their consequences are being reversed today by the abolition of pension cuts, an historic decision which is the government's right to the wrong political choices of the IMF, but at the same time also an answer to the unacceptable view of the Officerial Response to exchanging the pension cut with the Prespecies Agreement, 'presence', as he called it. So the New Democracy is becoming an accomplice to treason, since it also voted not to cut pensions. But allow me, ladies and gentlemen, a parentheses. Failure to ratify the agreement may not allow Skopje to enter the European Union and NATO, but it gives the biennial, better-cased, the name "Macedonia" detta is called today by most countries in the world. Secondly, with the increase in the minimum wage and the abolition of the subordinate, but also the reintroduction of collective agreements, support for the incomes of citizens who have remained unincome in the crisis, the development of the social state in health, education, welfare, the creation of a fair and surplus insurance policy by reducing contributions to the vast majority of insured persons, the reduction of HNVA by 30% progressively etc., by permanentising workers for "Help at Home" thus decommissioning them from the hostage of thousands of workers and allowing them to offer their services to those in need. The aid in 2019 with four thousand five hundred teachers for special education, together with the legalisation for permanent recruitment in education, confirms the interest in public education and reduces the percentage in the unacceptable logic of substitutes. Finally, care for social policy becomes clear from increasing funds, from 780 million in 2015 to 3 billion 225 million in 2019, which accounts for about 2% of GDP, with social solidarity income for six hundred thousand people, increasing positions in nursery stations, school meals, etc. Finally, let me welcome the agreement signed in Katowice, Poland, representatives from two countries. To propose stricter targets to prevent global warming from rising by more than two degrees Celsius. The oxymoor is that these agreements and procedures are being delayed in implementation in relation to the deterioration of the climate. So these agreements will be without opposition in a few years, if we do not act immediately, with responsibility and responsibility for the future generations, to press for the immediate implementation of the agreements in the direction of environmental protection. It is the biggest problem we face today and it concerns the whole planet. It evolves rapidly and does not discriminate or choose. From this point of view, I call on all, especially young people, to fight to protect themselves, because we are unfortunately going to be the perpetrators, and they will be the victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. Mrs Lebanese has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. For my part, I condemn the male attack at the SKAI television station and say that democracy is neither afraid nor blackmailed. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the 2019 budget has two main features: it is the first budget in the memorandum era. It is the budget that coincides after many years with the completion of the legitimate mandate of the government, contrary to the regularity of recourse to the boxes which were consistently applied by the governments of bankruptcy. The 2019 budget contains very important data that are capable of different interpretations, but not of questioning. These data shall be attributed in a simple and uniform manner to the following: The economy has been growing steadily over the past three years and has undeniably recorded surpluses. The positive outcome of recent years coincides with an increase in social aid, the strengthening of the social state and the payment of money and other free services to the weakest economic citizens. The redistribution carried out in favour of the weakest on the basis of the Greek state's real potential is not based on credit, it does not disrupt budgetary equilibrium and it ensures both social peace and economic stability. The decline in unemployment is impressive and significantly contributes to increasing consumption in Greece by substantially increasing the State's real income. Most municipalities in the country are being sanitized, new projects are financed needed for society, equipped, meet their needs in human resources. The hospitals of the country acquire modern equipment, acquire technical means to serve their doctors patients, new structures have been developed to provide health care at primary level. At the same time, the Government presents its draft, which reads as follows: Firstly, meeting the needs of human resources in critical structures of public interest, such as public health and public education. Secondly, it replaces the civil servants retired with new trained officials. Thirdly, it covers time gaps in public administration and gradually forms a state which serves the citizen. Fourthly, the new redistributive insurance system is surplus, without requiring reductions in pensions or reductions in benefits to insured persons. Fifthly, it pays the weakest economic citizens every month to social income. Sixth, it provides for the payment of a housing allowance to economically weak. Seven, necessary infrastructure projects throughout Greece are in progress or have been launched. Eighth, state control mechanisms operate and produce results. Ninth, the public's available income is growing steadily. The list of positive interventions by the government is very large. These changes in almost all areas require money. And yet the government manages to achieve social fair results without jeopardising budgetary stability and without resorting to exorbitant lending, not because it cannot but because it does not need to. The state today operates with a programme, with a better organization and, above all, with more social sensitivity. It responds to the real problems of society. It intervenes wherever necessary and does not waste resources on communications and public relations. This is the fundamental difference today which enables the government to achieve positive results, to go beyond objectives at the same time as the expansion of the social state. The best financial picture allows for reduced contributions and taxes to be reduced even gradually. Critical accusations, like farmers, are lightening up. The tax on wine has been abolished, the system is becoming more and more fair to the middle class. It is difficult to understand the reality of the old party system. It is even harder for his representatives to see social reality. The government is fighting a day-to-day battle with one main objective: the return of society as a whole to dignity. Thousands of new jobs contribute to dignity. Respect for everyone, raise the standard of living for all, return social wages through decent and quality public services. The position of counterpopulation is really for study. They claim that they will succeed more when what the Greek people remember even their constituents are that they have achieved economic and social bankruptcy. They see in all budget tables more available resources and more real policy. They describe the government's fair interventions as election benefits. However, the Greek people do not see benefits. It sees needs that this government meets. We have certainly not yet reached where we want it to be, after all, just the first real budget for this government. Four more follow with Alexis Tsipras and SYRIZA in power. The Greek people are experiencing the great change of 2015 and will renew their trust in SYRIZA in the 2019 elections. The Greek people are better aware of the housekeeping and the fact that this government is determined to solve chronic problems and diseases. Society has changed and the state is finally changing and its mechanisms change. The few who want to redress cannot be imposed on the many, no matter how much money they make available, no matter what means they use. The Greek people are well aware of their interest and will go beyond traditional oligarchies, no matter how high they appear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u5	Mrs Kefalidou has the floor from the PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, gentlemen. The terrorist blow at SKAI station, fortunately without loss of life, is a slap in our democracy and institutions, in freedom of speech and opinion, and, unfortunately, polarization, targeting and extremism poison our lives and divide our society. They have to stop. We strongly condemn terrorism and the use of force from wherever it comes and we wait for the Government's initiatives. We are now coming to the budget, the first memorial and expansionary, as the government baptised him. One number I will mention to you: 20% of taxpayers pay 80% of their annual taxes. Just one out of five taxpayers pays for the nine of the 10 euros collected by the State for direct taxes on income. Only this number shows something. So what is the government's choice? A huge tax gap, which is constantly maximizing. The more that happens, the more the world divides. You are practically squeezing them off to feed them no crumbs, but after you have already made sure that they are poor and continue to do so successfully, dreaming that they will tell you a "thank you" when voting time arrives. In your sights always the middle class. You have remembered her and put yourself in a hollow mood, but you continue to "false" her with taxes. You have gladly called the charity'social dividend' and we have so far had two million applications. These are data from the Electronic Governance, from the HICP. Doesn't that make you huge? You celebrate pensions, having succeeded in opposing yourself. Twice you voted on the pension cut, without any troika asking you to do so. And now to keep dependency, you come and say "when the cut, only for 2019, not over time". So what message do you send to the Greek people? "As long as we sit on the chairs, you'll have something to eat. You're working - you don't work, you don't work, you don't work, you don't work, you don't work, you don't work, you don't work, I'll get you the elementary, no allowance, no payroll, no payroll, no assignment. I'll cut you ten, but don't worry. Before the elections, I will give you one, and if you are one of our very own, we have two hundred thousand jobs.” Does that remind you of anything? However, because the people are good, but we all have only one vote, how can you keep in the chair without strong institutional allies? So you stoned your "left" heart and you started. Thanks to canalarchs, eye closures to stewards, academics, special wages. You have been legitimate by amendment - listen - the arbitrary forests for forty years, but you yourself, after the holocaust in Matti, went out and said: 'Incidentally, the only reason we have a hundred dead and thousands of people whose properties have been destroyed and the entire area destroyed by who knows for how many years'. You gave the "Ok" to the settlement of 120 million to the company of the judiciary, Mr. Laurentiadis, to pay, to be tolerant to the PPP, and in this case four important ministers of your government were involved, and all that is said by your friend, persecuted to the extent of a felony, Mr. Kitsakos. If you had not been stopped by the European Competition Committee, you would have signed the extension of the 'Eleftherios Venizelos' contract, destroying the Greek State for EUR 650,000,000. I come to the amazing: You broke your clothes for the silversmiths of the country, didn't you? SYRIZA - ANEL, therefore, all our cultural heritage goes to the Supreme Court, Minister. The Minister who was here last time said a number of wishes, spells, etc., but never answered the questions that have been asked by the whole Opposition. Where's this famous list? Why don't you make him public? How are you going to correct the monstrosity you have created? Conclusion. Even the stones know that: After forgetting to tear the memorials, you learned in one night fine to do business under the table. And you don't blush and dare talk about moral advantage. We're going to something that's been heard in the Chamber, and it's the absolute truth. Twenty-nine new taxes. Champions in overtax. All together, the package of overtaxation and pension cuts, 9.5 billion permanent austerity bill. Auctions? Let's not talk. Thousands last week and another twenty-five thousand are scheduled in the first half of 2019. Punctual? They had to zero in August, 2.6 billion. Unemployment? He's on the phone. We are first in Europe. One-third of our young people are out of the labour market. How much relaxation? Four billion lost. He came in and didn't touch. You are talking about a social state, when expenditure on education and health is reduced for 2019. You're doing well. Let's go to the Public Investment Program. Even that's where you put your hand. To blur the message you send other numbers to Brussels and other numbers here, but three years now, the only truth is that you are reducing or undermining the Public Investment Programme, because through there you share your social dividend and you also give some temporary positive measures, trying to portray the failed Robin of the Muzzo! You say 'A hundred days are us in governance'. I say to you that deafness and blindness, which are symptoms of your authority, do not let you see the situation of the citizens. Policies of bleeding continue. Seven out of ten Greeks appear pessimistic. The budgetary objectives shall be maintained at the heights. 62% - overwhelming rate - sees no recovery in the economy. Public property is committed for three generations. Worst? The country is marching with a shameful label of an unbelievable and unreliable state, a very strict supervision regime every three months, because they do not trust you. This is all the sad day-to-day life we live. Until the elections, therefore, because your government is seriously busy selling the security pillow, someone needs to see the budget. When he sees him, what does he see? It sees that, once again, we have full numbers that are empty. It is only a series of figures that you know will not be implemented and that they do not concern the development of the country, and that is because you cannot, you do not have time and, above all, you do not care.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u7	Mrs. Kefalidou, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u8	I shall conclude, Mr President. You know you're the longest-lived government of memorials. The "divides and reigns" you apply, people see it. He may not talk yet, but he understands, evaluates and waits. He may take what you give him in an election, but he remembers what nakedness you led him, remembers what you have deprived him for four years. What you've deprived him of is his dignity, and that's why he'll return it to you for a penny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u9	Mr Nikolaos Papadopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u10	Good morning. You're all talking about tax raids. I have not heard a specific proposal from the opposition from all of the opposition. I shall mention one - one of the measures that you have mentioned so far and in particular New Democracy and Mr Stavuras. You say, we're going from 22% to 9% the tax rate. You're not telling us what amount. Are you going to tax the subsidies? Are you going to tax the balancings? Are you going to tax the greenery? What are you going to tax? Where's 9%? Your policy is to tax agricultural income from the first euro. That's your policy, that's your policy. Until yesterday you said: "We do not agree with the FBI. We will abolish it.' Now what do you think? 'We do not abolish it'. You don't say a word. Yesterday you said the rate would go from 20% to 15%. But, gentlemen, we have it at 13.3%. So where are you going to stabilize and you can tell us specifically what you're going to do? A few days ago you presented a book, and Mr. Stakoras said: "The New Democracy will do it." We've done it, Mr. Stakoura. We will have another reduction and in 2019 you will vote again. You're talking about taxation and the ENPI. I said before that we almost did it. We have a reduction - you say - of 13% for cooperative organisations. So long you haven't told us how it was done and charged these cooperatives. Again from the same magazine I read what you said: "We need modern producer groups. The majority of the rural cooperatives have swept away.” Really? Who cheated on them? I have heard the words you said that they have been 'battered'. Aren't you going to shoot your party, the cooperatives? You have made a lot of lies, Mr Stakoura, but, anyway, I will now stand up to what we have done. I will not argue for everyone, because it is too much, but I will only list it. In general, we have solved years of problems of agricultural production and the economy. We have paid off financial obligations over the past few years. We have taken care of the weakest agricultural strata and have arranged urgent loose ends. As far as insurance is concerned, there is a sense of justice, because it links the real income to the insurance contribution. We have ensured the following: five-year transition of the farmers' insurance fund until 2021; the introduction of the national pension at EUR 384; the escalation of contributions for a milder transition to the envisaged level; no reduction in the OGA pensions; the possibility of a family dividend of contributions and pensions; - look at the - one-third reduction in the charge for insurance contributions to the farmers' pensions sector. Taxation: We've introduced the tax-free for the first time. It participates as tax-free income only the basic payment and keeps tax-free - take care of it and answer, gentlemen of the New Democracy - the greening and aid linked to up to EUR 12 000, free of tax on agricultural land and the balancing system. The total aid of the second pillar of the CAP and the allowances of the ELGA are not calculated in the taxable income. Answer that. There is no charge on the basis of evidence of living, where imputed income is equal to tax. We also introduced a bookkeeping and data issue, an out-of-court mechanism for farmers with incompatibility with those who join, a reduction in two phases of ENPIA, the tax rates in businesses from 29% to 25%, at a rate of 1% every year in four years and dividends from 15% to 10% for farmers, who have been set to pay 18% of the taxable income in 2019. Also, a valid payment of aid without fines and charges. Not even a four-year count. Not even one! Look at your past to see how many indictments you had. We have also achieved the following: the introduction of a civil service; the reduction of VAT from 24% to 13% on farms; the tightening of the concept of a principal farmer; more targeted public policies for the benefit of farmers; rather than the ones that are fruitful of profits and benefits; and they are intended for farmers who are fed every day. For each farmer we have ensured liquidity with low-priced funding. We made laws for cooperatives, law on outdoor trade. We have doubled the related aid to livestock, fresh and vulnerable, Ministerial decision on eco-industry, industrial cannabis, pharmaceutical aromatic plants, exploitation of agricultural land and real estate, establishment of a Real Estate Management Agency, PPC's PPC debt management, GEOB-TEB's regulation, VAT reduction of 13% in special categories of inputs, abolishing the special excise duty on wine, extending the compensatory and related CAP reform, intensification of the Greek Sugar Industry, guaranteeing funds of EUR 20 million to promote agricultural products, settling of debts by PPC, GEB-TEB, redeployment of red agricultural loans, abolishing the advantage for cooperative farmers, newly-private areas, intensification of the meat market, de minimis payment of 20 million to ovine sheep and goat producers, joint Ministerial decision on buying-in measures for milk, concession of real estates for agricultural products, and agri-business trading, etc. We have prepared a draft joint ministerial decision on the operation of organic producers' markets. We've compiled forest maps. Without them, there is no real estate register and land organization. Ministerial decision on a National Forest Strategy, the activation of measures by the ESDP - 'LEADER' and fisheries, support for young farmers up to forty. For the first time, all young farmers have entered this programme. For the first time 15 thousand young farmers entered the profession. Organic farming livestock farming, processing, marketing and development of agricultural products, setting up producer groups, early retirement, sub-measures and investments in preventive actions aimed at reducing the impact of climate change, agricultural consultants, public and private investment, saving agricultural land, implementing seven main productive measures of the Operational Fisheries Programme, clarifying circular for the authorisation procedure, including the total number of farmers, approval, additional management measures for fisheries.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Papadopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u12	I have a number, Mr President. In a minute, Mr President. What do we want for 2019? Preliminaryly: Preparing the law on the trade union representation of farmers, preparing a draft law on fisheries, preparing a positive framework that prioritises the exploitation of the assets of the cooperatives in liquidation, a common agricultural policy, our President raised the resources of the common agricultural policy for the first time and we are proud of this. We also want to solve the great problem of reducing the cost of oil. I have tried as soon as I can to say what we have done for Greek farmers, and we say: 'Behold Rhodes behold and fuck.' To understand who the farmers are with, who is with what. We are the green party and farmers will support this government and comrade Tsipras. I expect you to tell me what your tax incentives are for farmers from this Step here. Thank you. Hello.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 4th High School of Ilio. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kikilis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, those of extremist and divisive aim at freedom of speech, feed violence. I am pleased that all colleagues have condemned the terrorist attack on SKAI without stars. We are indeed all "SCAI" today! I want us to pay very close attention to the extreme rhetoric, from wherever it comes, because it leads to developments in which I am sure none of us would want to see happening in the country. I shall now refer to the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, just to explain to the Greek people what it is all about, I think we have to stand on the ground. You bring in a budget that has twenty-nine new taxes, which, along with pension cuts, actually lead to measures of up to 10 billion. With the most optimistic calculations, the ones you have given or the benefits you have announced since 2019 will not reach 1/10 of it. So those who simply count in my neighborhood, in the Petralana, that you get them ten to give an election and anguish of your election result and political survival are right. I shall now refer to the issues of the Ministry of National Defence. Look. There are very typical examples in the budget, which show why it is not real, because it is unrealistic, because it conceals elements and because for one reason above it creates very serious problems and pledges the future. I'm starting with the state defensive industry. Here's what you're doing at the Department of National Defense. Misleading and scandalously you say, for example, that the Hellenic Defence Systems will present a positive financial result of EUR 32 million and the Greek Air Industry EUR 10 million. Watch out. Here they cannot obtain tax information in the event of an emergency in the year in order to ensure that our defence industries are exceptionally accepted to take tax information so that they do not close down. They have huge debts. Since 2014, after the Samara government organized, presented to our partners and approved a defence industry rescue programme, you abandoned it for four years. The Minister for Finance, to whom responsibility belongs, does not have time, does not want, cannot and do you come to the budget with a positive financial result of some 50 million? Who are you kidding? But who are you kidding? To go to payroll and remind what you said to the recruits, what did you say to the men and women of the Armed Forces for their retrospectives to the active and retired? Let me remind you how you have essentially transformed the implementation of the S.H.I.E. to a social allowance, how did you guard two years from the soldiers, which you do not give to those in active employment as well? I would remind you that you did not adjust the wages after the S.H.I.E.'s decision. from August 2012 and pensions at levels, which should have been adjusted. When Christos Stakoras, by decision of the former Minister, gave 50% of the retrospectives to men and women of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps, and the wage effect was adjusted, so people saw it in their wages every month. That's not going to happen now. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another issue of the Ministry of National Defence crucial and very important. You're making a budget in which you find that: "We got out of the memorials, and so we have a free financial space to move on and you budget EUR 530 million for the armaments expenditure". We ask you: Are these funds sufficient for the payment of the commitments entered into? Do they leave a cash room for potential supplying new or maintaining existing weapon systems? Do they ensure the necessary availability and operational readiness of our Armed Forces' armed systems? I'm afraid not. It is clear even to the most well-founded observer, who would like to talk constructively about a budget, that here we have a job in the glue, to put the numbers in a paper glue matching a budgetaryly supposed budgetary balance of budget - accountability, without giving the figures to the public to produce a theoretical result. But that's not what the Greek people see. It sees its pocket, sees the wild taxation of the middle class, the popular strata, sees the targeting by Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Tsakalotos classics of the middle class and the majority of the Greek society through overtaxation in order to recruit the upper right and left to your ministerial offices, Maximos, the CECE etc. Obviously that is neither a political of hope nor a reserve for the future, and that is why it is translated into a budget that is made into your measures. Your measures are very much below what we hope, we vision and we will give the country. Obviously, we will be voting against this budget. And we regret that you do not have the political courage to come here with progressive, rugged proposals, as you think you are such politicians who give breath and hope to the average Greek Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u15	Mrs Cavadia has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to state our self-evident universal and unequivocal condemnation of the attack on SKAI. Democracy is neither threatened nor blackmailed. However, the struggle to shield, strengthen and deepen it must be lasting. And the voices of intolerance, from wherever they are heard, must be isolated. Ladies and gentlemen, it is customary in a budget debate that the figures should have their 'price'. And in the past few days there have been many numbers. Such a debate, however, cannot and must not only be an economic one. In fact, it is a debate on the daily life of the Greek society. It is a debate on the apology of an extremely difficult period, from which we come out after very hard sacrifices of our people. It is, finally, a debate on the roads, on the stations of tomorrow's march, which we know is not made with rose petals, but which we are seeking - as SYRIZA - to continue to be discriminatory, class-specific in favour of the many, rather than the elite. In favour of the world of work and not of the social parasiticism of the company and of the "days". The 2019 budget, as a number of ministers have said, is trying to reduce disparities - it does not eliminate them but reduce them. It is a budget that comes to attack poverty and unemployment and makes it very conscious by including a series of positive measures that the opposition is baptising them with populist benefits without explaining why she is voting for them one by one. The reduction of the HPAI and the insurance contributions of free professional, self-employed and farmers, the reduction of corporate tax, the grant of insurance contributions for young people under the age of twenty-fifths, the reintroduction of collective agreements and the non-cutting of pensions, all - and many more - are not, according to Mr Mitsotakis, measures that we owed to the people of this country, but election populism. Of course, New Democracy is right to protest. If she went through her hand, other interests would serve other priorities. And that is because the gap that separates the delightful Left from those triumphers of neoliberalism is huge. The fact, ladies and gentlemen, that far-right, anti-democratic, racist, intolerance, sexist voices have faded in all European countries is nothing to do with the economic austerity policies they imposed and the contempt for democracy shown by the neoliberal governments over the past period. In the face of this rise in fascist phenomena, an economic policy in favour of citizens and not of major economic interests is not just a fair project, but it is also the only effective defence of the democratic culture. The people must feel that the government they vote for works for, defends their rights, has a social reconstruction plan, which will generate profits that will be shared with everyone. Only then does the citizen trust and defend democracy, and it does not make it easy for hatred to poison him. Only in this way are we shielded against crimes, such as the murders of Zach, Petrit, Helen, which have been a tragic peak of underground processes, which have fuelled and fuelled social cannibalism, hatred and indifference to each other's rights and first - first - the right to life itself. All this at any rate finds fertile ground where democracy is being undermined and targeted. Because it is no coincidence that the very ones who attack the democratic city are the same ones who are taking the lead in hate rhetoric against women, migrants, members of the LGBTQI community. Nor, of course, is it accidental that the same specific centres of power are undermining racist and anti-democratic speech, but are also sworn to budgetary austerity. These, of course, are fine letters for the New Democracy, which in the most official way - by its President's own mouth, I remind you of the Verbers, Orban and Salvin - blinded by the insatiable thirst for power, reaches the point, growing to the extreme right and proving by day who runs the place in her ranks, chasing the very mind and the ideas themselves. Why else, ladies and gentlemen, is Mr Mitsotakis' encouragement at the New Democracy Conference? He said: "I want to finish with SYRIZA, not only for what he does but also for what he believes". It was similar to the statement made by Maki Voridis at the time: "Kyriakos Mitsotakis" had said: "Should make interventions to the state and to the institutions so that the Left does not come to power again, because its ideas are defective". Not to comment, of course, on Antonis Samaras' speech at the New Democracy conference. Really, what exactly do you mean, ladies and gentlemen of Officer Opposition? How exactly are you gonna end up with us? Does reliving 'glorious' practices of your past? Well, we have news for you. On the left you won't be done that way. We're not going back! Ladies and gentlemen, with the 2019 budget we continue a fight that we have absolutely no right to abandon. The fight for more social equality, more social cohesion, more solidarity, more respect for human political and social rights, in the end, the fight for more democracy. And it is deep in our belief that in this struggle the majority of the Greek people stand beside us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u17	The next speaker is Mrs Rapti from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to refer to the current terrorist strike at the SKAI television station. It is an attack on pluralism, the right to information and democracy itself. Those who believe that independent journalism and the right to opinion can be restricted by such attacks. At the moment we are all supporting SKAI. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few weeks, shortly after the announcement of the famous social divide but also the statement of the budget, the government has moved a picture of unprecedented euphoria, some wonder why society does not participate in it. The country came out of the memorials, the government achieved a surplus greater than the targets and divided a social dividend for the second time. What else does she finally have to do to recognize her great success? But one wonders: If things are as good as they say, why do citizens turn their backs? Because the reality, ladies and gentlemen, is very different. The euphoria prevails only in the rooms of Maximus. In the rest of the country's houses there are unemployed, hunger wages, unbearable taxes, immigrant children, heating one hour a day and people skeptically. The government, sitting in its office, no longer has any visual contact with the problems. He cares about numbers and not about people. And so he lost the confidence of society and all contact with reality. The government has submitted a budget which will not be called upon to implement, stripped of any development policy, merely management. Once again, with the strong elements of the tax raid, the golden dust of the benefits cannot convince anyone that the country has come out of the open. Regularity in the country has not yet returned, however much the government is trying to celebrate for the contrary. The so-called 1% reduction in business tax is aimed at naive business support policy. No word on the advance tax 100%, on the non-refundable public debt in order to create the surplus and on the guaranteed debts of thousands of businesses in IRS and funds, which have been launched by 60% compared to 2014. The non-cutting of pensions is the government's other major communication vagina. By underestimating pensioners, it is a success that should not have happened in the first place. At the same time, she hides that she took it - give it to the institutions to undo its signature in this cut, in exchange for some 800 million in social benefits, i.e. a reduction in the social state. This means less social care for citizens, less medicine, worse hospitals, no benefits. And to finish the lies at last, the pension cut was inappropriate, it was not included in the third programme and it was voted only by SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. Please note, in the event that you have lost the account, that the current government has made twenty cuts in pensions, including by abolishing the CSR, by increasing health contributions and reducing the main and 45% of all new pensioners' supplementary pensions. That's all we know who did what. The other great trick of government is that of supposed recruitment. This is an old-fashioned political trick that the government thinks will give her power. By expelling ten thousand priests she attempts to solve her political problem and she sells resurrected hope, even if some sting. Acquisition and irresponsibility to all their majesty! This is more likely to be the case for the popular phrase that this government 'has neither sacred nor loyal'! Of course, it is unnecessary to say that in order for the budget not to lose its shine, the government forgot to record the return of retroactively around ECU 4.5 billion. And, of course, the possible equivalents, the question of almost all the objectives of the European Union, the highest cost of borrowing from the markets and all the money on the side of the costs that would spoil the celebration. In other words, it is a budget for elections and without seriousness. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is clear even to the one who wants to read the budget in good faith. Greece continues to be in the memorials, heavy austerity policies remain, the disastrous commitment to unnecessarily surpluses will remain for many years, public property will be committed for a century, our country will be strictly unknown until when and it is borrowed more accurately than everyone, households will continue to be overtaxed, seizures will continue, real unemployment will be the same. No one can expect anything from a government that imposed twenty-nine new taxes, bringing the total account of austerity measures up to now at EUR 9.5 billion. The euro. That is the truth, no matter how much the government writes it in the budget. That is the explanation, ladies and gentlemen, for you and no one else to celebrate. The only good thing about this budget is that it is the last of this government. It closes the circle that cost the country and society dearly. There are only a few months left to open a new circle of responsibility, a realization of seriousness and effectiveness with New Democracy, which will give income and not tips every Christmas. The 2019 budget is the last act of a bad government, the more it governs, the greater damage causes the place. We, ladies and gentlemen, accept the responsibility of resolving what you are hiding under the carpet of today's budget. After all, the people were always looking for a political solution from the New Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u19	Thank you for the consistency in time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of Parliament, twenty-one students and students and an educational attendant from the 5th Acharnon Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr George Stathakis has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, the first Memorandum of Understanding is tabled at a time when the Opposition, on a thorn lines, restores the idea of a fourth Memorandum before us. I would remind you of the three arguments, which are lame and all three: That we have commitments for the period after the memorandum, pension cut and tax free. I imagine the argument is no longer correct. That we have committed high surpluses in the country for many years in exchange for a cut of one third of public debt and a new review in 2032. It is a very weak argument again. And of course, lastly, that, anyway, we haven't returned to full regularity because of access to the markets. I repeat that the government has ensured great security in the country with the 25 billion that gives it the right to go to the markets whenever it wants. Also, a weak argument. Therefore, having forgotten the fourth Memorandum, let us go to the specifics set out in the budget and, in fact, form two very different strategies for the next day by SYRIZA and by New Democracy. What SYRIZA will do next day is reflected in the budget. It is, however, an integral party to the development strategy, which is the driver, a clear road, to how we understand growth with social justice the next day. Let me remind you of three things from the development strategy. The first is that we have a clarity where and how we want the sustainable economy to move next day. I would remind you that Greece will be an area with high potential for investing in energy and logistics, due to the role played by the wider region, the Balkans, the south-eastern Europe, etc. Secondly, that it will be an economy that primarily strengthens its extroversion, particularly the production extrovert with what this implies for the great comparative advantages in the agricultural, industrial and, above all, technological sectors. And the third and main thing, which is in the development strategy, is employment and industrial relations. In other words, the idea that the private sector, to which we have not inherited a few issues, with which we have significant differences, will lead to rules that follow the right and well-established working relationships. We will restore collective agreements, we will weaken the phenomenon of contractors, which has become a scourge in the Greek economy, and we will ensure that working conditions are respected in the private sector. It's over the age of ten and twelve hours without overtime. And we also deliver a sustainable social security system. And wages follow the growth rate of the economy, a critical parameter and an important element of our development strategy. I am saying all this because the idea of recovering the economy, developing and at the same time having a strong social state and good working relations is a key point in our divergence from the next day of New Democracy. And I underline that. The next day of the New Democracy means part of the social state, the insurance system, passes to the private sector, expressed in all tonnes. Secondly, maintaining a working middle age. No correction, but maintenance and worsening of a working middle age. And thirdly, a development strategy which is lacking - I will return to this issue - of strong economic prospects in the wider region, the geopolitical dimension of economic recovery, to which I shall return shortlyer. If our development strategy shows a clear message about where we are going, it also contains the only memorial commitments that are to complete the reforms that were not completed on the day we came out of the memorandum. I would remind you that it is a package of positive reforms, such as the completion of the register, the simplification of business licensing, spatial reform and so on, as well as the completion of energy segregation. I would remind you, too, that our strategy is very different from the New Democracy. In fact, we cancelled the whole New Democracy energy sector programme in terms of privatisation, which was a full privatisation of the entire energy sector with PPC, and replaced it with a strategy in agreement with the institutions that we maintain all infrastructure, electricity networks, natural gas networks under public control, and we move on to privatization in the commercial part of the energy sector. That allows me to stand in second section. Soon ago we published the National Energy Plan for 2030. Greece is fully aligned with the Paris Agreement and with the European Union's 2030 planning. In simple terms, this means that in 2030 the country has committed itself to producing 32% of total consumption from renewable sources. I repeat 32% must produce from RES in the total energy consumption. And we need to save 32% of energy in relation to the current data, in fact, as to what would happen if we did absolutely nothing. It is a very high objective to save energy, which means that 1.5% a year in homes, hotels, industry, transport, we must save every year energy. The National Planning for which we are still waiting for the New Democracy positions introduces three more basic innovations. He says we're going there. The RES will now be the main form of energy. 2030 57% of energy production will be from RES. We'll replace lignite when the plants are shut down, basically only with RES. And, at the same time, it introduces three basic concepts. Firstly, it has shaped, as I said, a clear framework, such as public infrastructure, market liberalisation. Secondly, it has introduced all the rules with which the energy market will work, a set of reforms that concern the famous target model, namely the way the energy market works. Thirdly, it has introduced energy communities as a new subject that will enable citizens and businesses to form energy communities and produce the energy they need. An innovation that already finds a huge response specifically in the agricultural sector. It will also have another response, of course, both to tourism and elsewhere. At the same time, the third objective, set by our energy planning, is to protect against the phenomenon of energy poverty. So, with this trifle, we're on our way. And I close my speech by focusing on a third theme. If the country's development strategy shows towards a large opening up of our economy and exploits our strong position in the Balkans and Southeast Europe, if our development strategy maintains the social signal, New Democracy is increasingly moving towards an introvert and a reversal of the strategic role of the country that it has in the wider space. It's a double matter. And the way New Democracy handles the issue of Skopje and the issues with which it tackles our multi-dimensional strategy on geopolitical and energy issues, shows a New Democracy that visiblely has the cases of a return to a past that the country has paid very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Starios Castores has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, the condemnation of the terrorist attack this morning at the SKAI television station is self-evident and unequivocal, and I think we all agree that fear and hatred will not pass. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating today proves - and let us admit it - that there is a government transaction, but not with the Europeans, who, during the Qualification, asked us to give the Macedonian to give us the pension cut, but a transaction that the government made with the vast majority of the Greek people. The Greek people voted for it and supported it in return to relieve the country of corruption, strife and remulsion, from the neoliberal policies that brought the country into the cliff and bankruptcy, from the political practices that were based on accepting that poverty and inequality, becoming the poorer and richer are natural. This is the only deal for the government and it didn't make it under the table, made it a foretaste in two elections and proud of this transaction and keeps it a flag high and a guide to its daily practice. It is clear that this disturbs those who thought they had the titles of rulership of the country and did not expect to lose the chairs. But the most annoying, the criminal, I would say, is that, not only do they seem to have become a lesson to change their policies, rather than following other dangerous paths, dangerous to the country and to democracy. I hope they get together quickly, because these toys with the extreme right fire can make us all holocausts. No one will forgive that. Especially today that after eight years we have finally managed to unravel the commission's dolphins and resurrect, which we can finally regain one - one of the losers, draw up a course of our own and optimise again. That is what the budget we are debating today expresses, the first Memorandum of Understanding Budget. It's not just that budget number. It's a road, not definitely rolled with rose petals, but open to a better present and a better future. I have to say that that is why previous speakers in the opposition have convinced me, such as Mrs Kefalidou and Mrs Raptis, who have told us in a few words? We have been told that the budget is bad, that it is undevelopmental. Why? Because it gives little to the big entrepreneurs, because only they can create jobs, jobs, such as those created in previous years, driving and firing unemployment to 30%. So let's get serious. Everyone chooses who's going and who's leaving. It's his right. But let him defend his choices. He doesn't have the right to go out and play sorely for those who didn't choose them. Today's Civic Opposition does not have the right to play it sorely with the unemployed, with the low wages, with the low pensioners, small and medium-sized farmers, with all those whose political choices keep within the margin of social and economic life. And since colleagues here, in the Anti-Population Officers, like to disguise numbers, regardless of whether they respond or not, I would also like to refer to one or two of them, particularly for farmers, because I come from a rural area. Let me remind you of the EUR 3 billion fine that we received when we took over the government in 2015, a fine that was for maladministration, for mismanagement, for dismantling of European funds and housed it. People know very well who the people responsible for this household they had done at the time. If you want me to remind you of the Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020 which, after a hard negotiation, exceeds EUR 6 billion and three years 2015-2017 were such the money outflow, which our country was the second throughout the European Union of twenty-eight countries, of the twenty-eight-member countries in absorbing these programmes. I can refer to many more figures, however, behind them are a number of legislative initiatives which demonstrate with whom the current government is. Let me just remind you of a few. The regulation of the debts of farmers that may include 100% haircut, cut, deletion of all interest late on loans, deletion of all fines and surcharges to the State, repayment in a hundred twenty instalments with a minimum of 50 euros per month and deletion of even the capital of up to 60%. Let me remind you of the support of young farmers up to 40 years old, which is intended to return to earth again, to cultivate the country's productive reconstruction of sixteen thousand young farmers. It's four times our schedule and twice as much money for each of them. Let me remind you of the framework law on co-operation, where farmers today can be these managers in their own troubles rather than cartels. This and so forth clearly illustrates what we mean when we talk about agriculture, rural development. It also shows what others mean when they talk about these issues, because the world that led the country and the rural economy knows. We are not intimidated by the cries of those who have been severely slashed over the dignity of the citizens, which the current government considers to be a self-evident obligation to return to them what has been stolen from them in previous years. The last euro will be returned, because we do not do offshore, we do not put it in the pockets, we are not Papastavroui, nor Papageorgiopoulou, nor the Papantoniou. They will take into account the possibilities available and the last euro back. All we're afraid of is not returning the old state of the hooding, covering all the things that happened. This can only be guaranteed by the Greek people, by the great social majority of the citizens of this country who understand the difference as much as anyone can do to cover them with cries, lies and misunderstandings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u23	Mr Screkas has the floor from New Democracy. Mr Papadopoulos and Mr Gavroglou will be followed. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should all condemn the terrorist bombing of the SKAI television station and along with it, of course, we should also condemn all those political behaviours that breed division, polarisation, poison the soul of Greek society. We also have to condemn the tolerance to the phenomena of infraction, crime, Ruvikon, to such phenomena that, while you leave them, they escape, the people who cause them are dismantling and eventually reaching what we have seen this morning. So all together we must - on whatever side of the democratic spectrum, and if we are here - condemn all these actions that undermine democracy and, unfortunately, undermine our own lives. I have listened very carefully to the Minister for Energy and the Environment, Mr Stathaki, mentioning what the next day's strategies are for SYRIZA. Of course, we can say that SYRIZA has been ruling this country for four years. And these results of this governance, I think, are much more visible to Greek citizens, who feel these results every day in their pockets. So I heard Mr Stathakis say with great certainty that the main pillar of the next day for SYRIZA, after ruling four years and reaching us here, is development with social justice. And I'm trying to see what he's done four years now to achieve this social justice. And I would like to ask the following simple question: Do you believe that the increase in VAT on daily needs, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, gives social justice? Is there a more unfair tax than VAT on the kinds of immediate need for the daily life of the citizen? Of course not. Because when you increase the VAT on pasta, the poor pays the same tax, the rich pays him. When you increase the tax on cigarettes, for example, the poor pays the same tax, the rich pays the same tax. So when you build VAT in the main types of need, what the Greek household needs to live, there is a great injustice, because in the same way you are burdening the poor, and in the same way you are burdening the rich. The increase in fuel for the householder to go to work this morning is a fair tax, putting gasoline in his car or oil? Was the abolition of the heating allowance a fair social tax? You got a tax, you got a subsidy from over EUR 200 million and in advance that New Democracy gave to those households that needed to warm up the household in a decent way and abolished it, you reached it almost less than EUR 50 million. Is the increase in income tax on small incomes, low pensioners and low-paid people a social justice? Is the abolition of the ECHR a social law measure? I have heard a lot of executives talk about extroverting growth and, indeed, that this development will come out of rural production and tourism. What have you done to improve agricultural production? You increased VAT on agricultural supplies, even increased it in the straw, and you came to reduce it after repeated indebtedness of ours, after a great struggle. You put 24% VAT even on the animal-eating straw used by farmers. That's where you've arrived!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u25	Lies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u26	Let us say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that you are also from a rural prefecture - I do not want to mention your name, why do the viewers see us - that you have increased contributions, that you have increased taxation, that you have increased the energy costs in agricultural production by abolishing the oil subsidy so that the farmer orchestrates his field? And you're laughing when it's crying? Is there no gum at all? Is there no shame in that? Okay, you do this, but don't celebrate and don't say you did good. Are you talking about extroversion when the biggest and most emblematic investment that would create hundreds of millions of millions of dollars and bring export turnover to the country, the Skouries, is currently going to close? Not only do investors come in the country to invest, but they come and ask for EUR 700 million compensation. Where did it sound? We ask for investors to come here to invest and create jobs and the government to drive investors out and, in fact, to demand EUR 700 million in compensation, where there is a serious risk - of course, we will try to prevent him - from charging millions of heavy taxpayers Greek citizens. You're talking about development strategy. Is there any chance, Minister, that we will have strong growth in the country with the country's energy system dissolved? Is it possible to achieve strong, long-term growth without PPC? Where is PPC today and why are you celebrating that you have abolished a New Democracy project and allegedly brought an energy strategic plan, which has brought very good results? What are the results? Very simple, really. PPC in 2014, with the exception of extraordinary revenues and remuneration forecasts, had profits of 4 million euros a day. PPC today that we are talking about - and we expect to see the results of the nine months, which should be published in the next few days, a few days before the new year - enters within 1 million a day. He's damaged 1 million a day. PPC had 2.5 billion shares in 2014 and has less than 300 million today. PPC in 2020 will be able to operate, with what the current government has done, only one lignite plant from the fifteen that it has today. 40% sells it and the rest of the factories of the St Dimitrios complex and of the Heart will be forced to close because they have not made any environmental upgrades. And only one factory, one chimney just from the St. Dimitrios complex can work in 2020. What have you done about it? Why four years have it been and you have not gone through the competitions to complete the environmental upgrades in the rest of PPC and not to stay PPC in 2020 - that is to say in one year from today - of fifteen factories with one? And do you celebrate that when you force it in 2019 all the production it has from lignite and hydroelectric to sell it through NOMEs, through energy auctions, under its actual production costs? You celebrate why you did not give a single intraelectrical one and you obligate PPC, the entire hydroelectric production, to sell it in energy auctions below the total cost of production of PPC, so that the individuals can take it and compete with PPC. In other words, to buy private operators, alternative suppliers, energy from PPC, under PPC's cost and then go and make the good ones to PPC's customers. And you're celebrating that this is a good plan? All you've achieved these four years is to inaugurate three major projects. First, the SGP, which you voted against when you were opposition, the gas pipeline that carries gas from Azerbaijan through Greece to Italy and from there to Western Europe, which you voted against and reacted, eventually celebrated and went and opened it! Secondly, the completion of the electrical interconnection with the Cyclades. You haven't been informed, Minister, that SYRIZA officials were against this electrical interconnection. It was a bad connection for environmental reasons, they said. You celebrated, of course. You have officially launched a delay in the completion of more than a year and a half, which cost over 50m euros via the Greek citizens by means of the YOOs. Thirdly, you inaugurated the completion of Rethyssas, a project that had been started again for a New Democracy and for your day simply delayed the completion of over two years. So you should not celebrate anything, ladies and gentlemen. What you've done for four years is very bad things, people get it. Some people, of course, do not understand that, Mr President, and they smile. Although they come from agricultural prefectures, they think they have saved farmers, farmers, professionals, craftsmen, workers in the private sector and all the working world, whether they are in the public sector or elsewhere, as well as pensioners. The reality, however, is that everything you've done needs hard work the next day and political decisions with courage, so that we can overthrow it. These are the Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the New Democracy will do and you will be watched by the headquarters of Antipoliticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper and western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, a group of four people and four escorts from the Spatial Protection Society and a group of nine people and four escorts from the Panhellenic Association "ERMIS". The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Papadopoulos Athanasios has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u29	The Minister has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u30	Because we are inaugurating only the works of the New Democracy, I would like to announce the eight new projects - the New Democracy will not be a government, we will still inaugurate them - because you say we are doing nothing. This is the small interconnection of Crete, which did not exist on paper. The competition was opened and will be completed in 2020. There is the second and third interconnection of the Cyclades, which did not exist on paper, and we proclaimed them. There is the IGB, the northern vertical axis with Bulgaria, which is awarded a project in the next few months. I can report you more by continuing the SYRIZA project list. This does not show a government whose only job it was to launch works by the New Democracy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Athanasios Papadopoulos from SYRIZA has the floor. Here, Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u32	This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. It is the inauguration of the new historic phase, of the new era for the country, for the people, for their rights. It is the first without prerequisites for fundamental measures, without memoranda of coercive, without the blackmailing suggestions of lenders' Golden Boys for what serves their own theory of reforms, of budgetary discipline, of debt service for a highly indebted European country. It is the beginning of the period when budget revenue and expenditure are determined on the basis of our own priorities, our own hierarchies. Of course, the drafting of the new budget has limitations and commitments. He's got strict surveillance. But the current government - and also the future Greek governments - have the freedom to choose the measures they serve and their budgetary commitments and objectives. Our objectives are reflected in the quality of the budget. After the emancipation of the country from the suffocating Memorandum of Preservation we want a steady transition path towards Greece, progressive regeneration, holistic reconstruction, fair, sustainable, intelligent development with our own left-wing ideas about the necessary and progressive reforms of the process, public administration and self-government, the social state, quality of life, rights and obligations. This new objective reality is already being used by the New Democracy. It announces twenty-two new relief measures. It is also used by KINAL, Potami and the Centro Association of Centres and propose measures, solutions, legislative arrangements of their own choice as being possible to implement them in the memorandum period. Or isn't it? The New Democracy receives as much as the intention of the Community institutions to trade. Who has the right to trade on behalf of a united Europe? Tayyani, Sedeno, Juncker, Solds, Regling, your chosen likeness, Mr. Webber, who spoke to your conference? The European People's Party is in favour of the Prespecies Agreement. Mrs Merkel calls the neighbouring country "Macedonia", without you protesting anywhere or any of the institutions. Did Manfred Webber exclude New Democracy from the alleged transactions for the Prespecies Agreement? Did he now propose to you transactions to allow you to declare twenty-two election measures of an unknown budgetary burden? We gave it in writing yesterday, Mr Stavrou said - I do not see it now - our intention to reduce the primary surpluses in order to invest and develop. Didn't the boys say good? Did they not tell you that Mr Tsakalotos also proposed to lenders during the second assessment the reduction of primary surpluses, the use of tax reliefs and development targets, and rejected it? Are they going to make a trade with you now to facilitate the re-establishment of the neoliberal system? This, however, is the unbearable lightness of the electoral demagogy that reaches hysterical cries about betrayal from the extreme right and many of you - fortunately not all - even Mr Alavanos who imagines to be Jesus of the Left! Mr. Mitsotakis accused the Prime Minister yesterday of having given language and ethnicity and of splitting the Greek people. Who gave up something they didn't have in world opinion? Who's splitting? We who regard it as our patriotic task to promote an agreement that puts down statues, symbols, flags, international recognitions, and which takes away historical omissions, fantasies, or do you, our patriotic duty, the love of our own country, which wins prestige in the Mediterranean, in Europe, in the global community, consider it treason? The 2019 budget includes important positive interventions in social policy, class-sharing in favour of the poor, strengthening households' available incomes, employment of young people with the qualifications they have left or left Greece. It includes the measures to support the social layers that suffered the burden, and this explains why in Greece today there are no mobilizations from mass social movements, such as "yellow vests" or the old "flat movement". The dynamism of the movements in Greece has not been lost. The causes were blunted. They know that the government is with many, they are not with the piranhas of public money, tax havens. It is not with the owners of offshore companies, with SIEMENS, with NOVARTIS, with its powerful wealth. Our rapporteurs have done an analysis of the social, anti-fungal, expansionary, developmental nature of the budget, which allows for an increase of 2.5% in 2019 and unemployment below 18%. These are only a few of the options: A large increase in welfare costs from 780 million euro in 2015 to 3,224,000 euros in 2019, with very many important social interventions. Support important health reforms, which will be analysed by our ministers. Reliefs to the pharmaceutical cost for the oncological patients, for the patient in time. Employment programmes for afflicted young people. We will have a five - thousand - five - five hundred jobs in this period. There will be facilities for the highly indebted households. The Private Debt Management Special Secretariat is doing a very important job to support debtors who are not strategic malpractices. I will not answer your favorite chips, as in "You took ten, you give one" or "The Memorandum was inappropriate" while you know why it was imposed or that there would be potential wealth or that the pension cut was unnecessarily inappropriate. Only on one issue do I consider my obligation to respond. You say: "You have mortgaged the public property for a century." The Hellenic Company of Participants and Property, with a majority of Greeks on the board of directors and Greek directors, since its establishment in 2016, has been a body of single management and not of divestment of a significant part of the assets of the Greek State to enhance their efficiency, for investments with development objectives, for increasing creative employment, for synergies with the private sector, for exploiting innovations, for increasing the value of assets and not for sales.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Papadopoulos, can we finish this, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u34	I conclude by saying that I think that the period we have spent shows the possibility of making all these measures of a social nature, which the budget contains. Today Greece is now a different country that has all the preconditions to take over its own fates without support. Greece has achieved its objectives and has demonstrated that serious budgetary adjustments can be combined by measures to promote development and social exclusion. This has been said by our important European partners. Greece has become a leading peaceful force for collaborative development of the Balkans, a pillar of stability for the entire region, a hub of transit, energy, commercial, tourist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Papadopoulos, you've been over nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u36	This is reflected in the 2019 budget, and it is very optimistic about the new principle that it has drawn up in the country and makes us optimistic that we can also get a third people's mandate to serve with a new policy of reliable scheduling the progressive regeneration in this historic country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u37	The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Gavroglou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I am surprised that opposition has a reason in the budget debate, which ignores the figures. And I understand all the elements of the political argument, but it is important that we also know the figures, because the figures happen to express some objectivity. Let me remind you that between 2009 and 2015 there was a 35% reduction in the budget. No one doubts that. The second: between 2015 and now there is an increase of 12%. And if the country had in the medium term, agreed by the New Democracy and the PASOK, today we would have a 28% reduction, that is, the budget that we have tabled, if compared to what would apply because of the medium term, is 28% increased. This is not a question of negotiation or of creative logic. One on hand, therefore, that we have managed to increase the budget for education through the truly unbelievable conditions. The increase in the budget for education cannot work forcefully for the benefit of education unless there is a policy that can maximise the potential of this increase. We have also implemented this policy for the last three years. We say this because the policy of counter-population, precisely because it was seen as a product - people do not hide it, it is said by Mr Mitsotakis in one way, in our view, too extreme - because they see education as a merchandise, schools as business, the political culture, with which they approach the issues of education, is as if the educational institutions are business. That is why they cannot think outside the financial framework, because education obviously needs too much money, but above all it needs a long-term reform plan. With the new budget, finally ten years later, we proceed to the appointment of fifteen thousand permanent teachers in the next three years and in 2019 in four and a half thousand permanent appointments to special education. It is what they say - which I said before - that this is not in any way questionable. As far as the system is concerned - because there is a debate on the system - it must be clear, at least in all the parties, that this system must comply strictly with the constitutional requirements. We cannot forget the constitutional requirement for both dignity and equal access to professions without obviously overlooking the pre-service. We also need to be categorically opposed to all those populisms that actually want to bring back the yearbook and through it they also exclude a generation of vague young teachers. In addition, we appoint six hundred teachers who have been afflicted since 2008, have judicial decisions and can finally be appointed. But, as I said before, our programming was not synonymous with how much money there is for education. We have managed to take huge steps in these three years and also to make the best use of the money that was available. With this logic, we have introduced two-year-old pre-school education, one request for teachers for sixty-one years. We have established it, we are completing it in all municipalities in three years. Already in the first year, it works in an eighty-five municipalities. Next year, it'll work in another hundred. As a result, there are more children in kindergartens, more infants in kindergartens - which are municipalities - and therefore more workers as kindergartens and more kindergartens. Also, what we have achieved is to create a network of school libraries in a thousand primary schools. At the same time, more than eight hundred, eight hundred twenty - three municipalities became all day long. They are municipal in our country's ravages and we managed to become them all day, where they went and specialties, such as foreign languages, music and so on. It is well known that we have achieved too much for the inclusion and reception of the refugee camps. Eight thousand refugees are currently in education. Also, despite any rabies - we would say - reactions of extremely reactionary circles in Thrace, in which there was an immediate silence of many parties, we managed and created the pilot kindergartens for children from minorities. So we have kindergartens where there is an assistant, an intermediary, so that these children can learn the Greek language without apparently losing their own language. And, of course, one thing that we have also managed - and this has an indirect relationship with finances - is the optionality of the sharia and the modernisation of the mufts in Thrace. It was services that had to be modernised for many decades. And the optionality of the sharia gives way much more to the female population, which, under often family and family pressures, had to be drawn to compulsory sharia. Mrs. Jufi spoke to you in detail about the new PPAI principle, in which Dimitris Baxvanakis also made a great contribution. The initiatives that we have taken in special treatment are no longer called into question by anyone. Here is something very important that we must all welcome in this House: Greek families who have children with disabilities began to trust the public school and put great pressure on the public school in order to be able to deal with these problems. We welcome that. It is a social pressure, which must be exercised, we accept it, and that is why we go to the permanent appointments for special education, which is why we have done the new special schools, which is why we have done the programmes with which these children are together with others in normal classes. We have voted on the new self-assessment structures for schools. This is for the first time. We abolished a punishing presidential decree in 152. Suspicion of assessment. It wasn't that. It was what we were told: “Why, you guys, do not evaluate? Get some people out of here. And then see what's gonna be nice." That's not how it works. Here we need to see how school units discuss their programming, how they evaluate it at the end and how they evaluate those who are there to help them. We are also planning to abolish the GSP, where we will recognise the professional rights of all these candidates, strictly following the requirements of the European directive. As you well know, we are very close to legislating high school III. Third grade, as you know, in our country is almost a ghost class. We are a country without a 3rd grade, for which society as a whole is responsible, and not the teachers, who strive to be able to give it essential content. We are trying to upgrade the high school diploma, have much less lessons with more hours and manage to have a system of access to higher education that will enable you to enter only with the diploma. And of course - and I shall end - we are talking for the first time about the new architecture of higher education. An architecture which will reduce the difference between the universities of the centre and the region. An architecture, which will be very open to international cooperation and extroversion to the development needs of local communities. With this logic, we are setting up the two-year curriculum which will provide professional certificates, and because of the new budget we give EUR 10,000 for each postgraduate study programme that is free of charge, without tuition. Inside, then, a programming that we have started since we are government - and we started it with the logic that we would come out of the memorials in August 2018 - we are completing two-year-old pre-school education, rationalizing primary and high school, we are moving towards a change in high school, discussing and legislating the new architecture of higher education, and, of course, we are moving on to the appointments that have been made for the first time in ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u39	Mrs Marku has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the last budget of this government seals and condenses all its contradictory course: from the bad surpluses in the surpluses, the IMF is right to cut the debt and the primary surplus in the idea that the IMF is the bad wolf of history, from friend Russia to expulsions of Russians, from the bad America of Trump to embraces with Donald, from the far right to cooperation with her. And I am not, of course, talking about cooperation with Mr Kammenos. Underground routes are known with the normal right-wing right and the almost agreement on simple analogues with two parliamentarians. Whatever goes down and whatever happens to us every time. One invertebrate thing is your policy. If nothing else, there was some appreciation on the left for its consistency in its ideological core. Here is evidence of the Left as a nudity, which flows into an incredible zero and a hate for the middle class, for urban habits, for freedoms and rights. The petty, little dragon of the joke is actually a triumphant plaque that likes even internationally smiling and deafening ignorance, which even as a flag of resistance to the urban ways and values of Western democracy. Humbly predator instincts in what creative is going to be done, cultivating discord and hatred, confiscating the hard efforts of households and businesses. You're going to tell me: is everyone the same? I have complained about this, and I have heard this in Parliament once, once and for all, to raise a point of order, one voice, one cough, something rather critical of what is happening. It can't be right. And of course I'm not talking about resignation. Not a reason. Something's broken, of course, the plans. Despite the cliffy and predatory concept of the state, which takes us back to the era of Deligiannis, there is a large part of the Greeks that "does not bite." Greeks and Greeks refuse to become victims. They refuse to be beggars of the crumbs that the government distributes from confiscation of their property, of course. They refuse to become your voters, third-class citizens of a new Venezuelan category. We must be honest, however: the most ancient parts of the political system in fact, together with the horse called "Tsipras", the form called "SYRIZA". These people continue to believe in the ideology of predator and theft, of living at the expense of others with the idea that the state produces money, which must also give us to plunder them even more. To ignore the shared collective life, to trample, to illegally destroy the country, to smuggle the House when the MPs don't give us free money, and they don't appoint us, to undermine the future of the children. If SYRIZA's motto is still "or we or them", I raise the glove. Indeed: The European Greece of rights and freedoms or the corrupt and ill client-statement of SYRIZA. Well, then, yeah. It's us or you. Mr. Tsakalotos submitted a class budget, as he says, "mixing" citizens with allowances, recruitment, client arrangements, baptizing a left-wing policy to extend the state, closing their eyes to the decline, zeroing and corruption that I described above, pretending to disagree. He takes his distance from the old-fashioned Maximos and shows remote distance to the stolen demeks, as we say in Macedonia, in my homeland, jet sets of champagne and cigars. And with the opportunity here to say: Mr. President, Antonis Samaras, for voting on your budget in December 2014 and the President who then proposed that the country be saved, when the Kuvelis were running to SYRIZA, it is not like you said at the conference the other day: "Sabanya, food and Mars Velouchiotis." It's "Life, Petsite and Remulus, like that of Caligula"! And these do not save you, Mr Tsakaloto, such budgets. Because you budget and baptize champagne and jets as a left-wing policy. Ladies and gentlemen, what about the budget? Telegraphs: Mahari in investments by half a billion compared to the draft budget for 2019 and in the medium term, in an effort to get out the figures that the government wants. We don't care about the future. The foreign sector's contribution to GDP growth almost zero. Hairy things in consumption. Limiting increases more than the bankrupt citizens of your politics who get their butts from your cigars and the drops from the champagne to the smaller jets. The productivity downwards. You're told by the evidence and the studies. How else, since public and private investments are catholic? The wage level is in Nadir. Half of the country's VAT on red debts due. The banks are practically closed. Non-performing loans come instead of falling. And Mr. Tsipras smiles, actually loading the new burdens on the backs of the next generations. And not to forget: this is the success that the country is out of market. In order for voters to understand it: it is like in a family that no one has any income, that there is no one to help, while the family lives with a deadline from a small mass of money, which ends, until the IMF comes back again. But then Mr. Tsipras knows it won't be a government. And he imagines he'll be watching from the platform, throwing stones! Well, I've heard from you: Kyriakos Mitsotakis will win a comfortable self-reliance and stabilise the country. And the majority of them will be solid, stable and long-term. Because the people don't forget what left means! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ENIZELOS", twenty-seven students and students and three teachers from the 4th High School of Ilio (second section). We welcome you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Reconciliation Mr Loverdos has asked for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u42	Again?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Barka, I see you very worried this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u44	I have been here since Wednesday, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u45	Come on, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, thank you very much. On behalf of the Democratic Alliance, I would like to make the following statement. Since the morning, all parties have condemned terrorist action at SKAI TV and the newspaper "KATHMERINI". The President of Parliament in his announcement, I think, expressed all the political forces in the democratic area. However, there is a need for something to happen, Mr President, and that is why I asked for the floor for a minute. We have, a few days ago, sent a letter to the President of the Broadcasting Council, Mr Kutrumano, asking him to convene a cross-party committee to discuss the lifting of the embargo with the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u47	And the ERT.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u48	Yes, of course. I believe that targeting and individual exclusions create too many problems either concerning 'SCAI' or concerning ERT. They're the wrong attitudes. These attitudes along with the irresistible cry against the press, which often hear sound, create the preconditions of targeting. So this has to be lifted. So all the political forces in the democratic area must be identifiable in this and this must be a prospect that we will all embrace. I spoke to the President of the National Broadcasting Council. He told me he took our proposal and he'll answer us. However, as the time passes, the weeks pass, there must be a direct reaction and the Democratic Partnership must do what it has to do in practice to prove that it is directed against all these terrorist practices, in this case. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u49	Good, Mr. Loverdo. Mr Zabeck Hussein has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u50	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to discuss the 2019 budget today. After more than three years of our government, I think it is advisable to make a small account of the previous years of our government, as we are one year before the elections, and then talk about the budget for next year, which is the first budget outside the memoranda, outside the committee and the first budget without the close nipple of the lenders. After the last agreement has been concluded, I can only remind myself that we are supposedly driving the country on the rocks, that we are the worst government ever through the place, that none of the assessments will close, that we inspire no confidence in creditors, that we will cut pensions, that the cut-off will be applied and much more. Everything, but everything, of course, has been denied one by one. A counter-population that brought down wages and pensions, fall in GDP, freeze of collective agreements, redundancies, communal tricks, success story and the collapse of Greek society. For our own governance, history has shown that we have also come out of the monuments with society standing and historical agreement to alleviate the Greek public, we have concluded and supported society as far as the budgets allowed it, and we have not cut pensions, but we will also give increases to about five hundred thousand pensioners. Finally today, outside the Memorandum, we are legislating the first budget for budgetary expansion after ten years. After ten years budgetary expansion translates into an increase in social expenditure and a reduction in taxes and levies. The growth rate of economic growth is 2.5% of GDP for 2019, a size that is achieved by increasing consumption and boosting employment. The Greek economy is currently showing continuous excesses of the primary surplus targets, continuous improvement in the economic indicators of confidence, upgrading the country's creditworthiness and continuous growth in employment. At the same time, foreign direct investment is increasing and the wage and income inequality index is constantly improving. The Prime Minister's announcements from the Thessaloniki International Exhibition come true. Just a while ago, we voted to reduce the tax rate for legal persons from 29% to 25% and to amend the reduction amendment to HNVIA by 30% for the average residence, namely for five million four hundred thousand taxpayers. Very important interventions are measures to reduce the social security contributions of free professionals, self-employed farmers, such as the insurance contributions scheme for young people up to twenty-four years. Finally, the non-reformation of pensions was also passed, which is more likely to happen, judging by the statements made by its officials, as it considered that this would be the political tomb of SYRIZA but fortunately we did not do you the favour. A very important move is to strengthen the "Help at home" programme by hiring three thousand permanent workers, who have been working for so long in hostage status, as well as the recruitment of four and a half thousand teachers of Special Education and Education for the first time after so many years, which is the right and recognition of substitutes who have been working in the industry for years. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about our region, Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, one of the regions that suffered most during the crisis and about my prefecture, Xanthi, which we have seen all these years devastated. Young people were leaving for work abroad, industrial zones fell, even the access of our prefecture to the LEADER programme became impossible. Traditional tobacco cultivation and many people lived below the limits of poverty. Those responsible for this disaster, former and current politicians, must answer and answer. Besides, their punishment will be when the people of Xanthi send them to their political barracks. We do not forget the cause of the destruction and closure of cooperative factories, which was a trademark for our region. We still remember the padlocks brought by the New Democracy and PASOK to our place, the padlocks in the Greek Sugar Industry, the SEPEK, the SVATH, ELBIZ and the sellout of SKAP. Today, however, we are looking at the future with greater optimism. Employment has risen and enterprises are practically supported by the government. The construction of the vertical axis of Greece - Bulgaria, which no one believed would become a reality, proceeded on our own initiative in the middle of an economic crisis. In 2015-2018 the Xanthi Prefecture was strengthened by more than 7.7m euros by the Ministry of Interior to support our mountainous and disadvantaged municipalities, natural disasters and "Philodis". The practical support for tobacco for the first time since the crisis gives us hope that the traditional bass of the region will not be lost. With the EUR 8.2 million to support tobacco from the de minimis programme, it is attempting to support tobacco growing and the producer. After the catastrophes in tobacco cultivation, because they are viral, are not covered by ELGA, the Ministry of Rural Development looked for an alternative solution and incorporated basma into de minimis for the areas of eastern Macedonia and Thrace and the Serres. And it is important to stress that de minimis is not compensation but substantial support for the producer. However, it is worth noting that, for the Rhodope Region, the amount is not enough, so we will have to find another solution. The EUR 40 million for support for farmers from the de minimis programme for ovine and caprine animals is also very important, which is translated into an effective contribution to livestock farming. The Xanthi Hospital arrived within the time of the crisis, being a model of proper functioning of a hospital with benefits for patients and without shortcomings. Indeed, for the first time, it will be strengthened by a magnetic tape recorder so that citizens do not resort to private centres alone. The education, public and minority, has been supported by sound and crucial interventions, which continue until the desired result has been achieved. All this until our region relives at economic, labour and social levels. Finally, we showed him the way to fair growth and continue to show him every day. A road that will restore the mistakes of the past and restore the country to normal levels. And the first non-mortem budget is a step forward to rebuild a social, productive and democratic state with equal opportunities for all, in the interests of many and not few. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u51	Mr Vagionas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 budget is not a memorial. The memos are here. There is simply no borrowing and a credit line. So it is not a cause to celebrate. The primary surpluses are the result of a bloody effort and we will explain what they are. More than a hundred thousand citizens who have established a pension right do not receive retirement. If we calculate EUR 700 on average the average pension, then it is 840,000 000 000 per year. They claim to reduce unemployment. In October that passed us, the worst performance of all time was recorded. One hundred and twenty thousand jobs lost with part-time employment at 62%. New debtors, according to the Independent Public Income Authority, are five hundred thousand a year, finally reaching four million three hundred thousand of the three million eight hundred thousand last year. Debts are EUR 103 billion. The increments go up to 185 billion euros. Tax refunds are EUR 627 million. The beneficiaries did not see their money in their accounts, which means that they are missing this money from the market and are not very small. This is 630,000,000 euros. The debts in the insurance funds are EUR 35,000,000, and eight years ago it was EUR 26,000,000, that is, on average, we have an increase in the debts for the insurance funds by 1.2 billion a year. Red loans in Greece are over 45%, while the average in Europe is 3.4%. At the same time, the deposits in October retreated by 350,000,000 euros. These are lost from the market. This is how the primary surpluses that you celebrate, ladies and gentlemen of the Com munity, have been created, and these bonds with which you have suffocated the economy, will remain until 2060. We do not disagree with the "fly" that few fellow citizens will get, but how different these surpluses would be if they came from growth and new jobs! We have a haircut for the Public Investment Programme. I will not deal with the ENPIA, because the ENPI will not only reduce by EUR 60 for a house of EUR 100,000, but will increase by the objective increases made in 2019 and 2020. I will not talk about 2015, when the previous government introduced the five-day hospital when someone was using the hospital because he had the misfortune to get sick. You replaced it with 1.5 billion euros a year, cutting off basic and supplementary pensions by 6%. What can I say about the Katorugalou law, which cuts the widow's pensions by 42% compared to 2014 that had been reduced? And yet, you continue to insist after three years that pensions for widows will be improved. Remember the "no house in the hands of a banker"? In ten days, the deadline is over, and there is no more Katseli law. Now all the houses in the hands of the bankers. I wish you the evaluation made every three months, because if it does not go well, where will you get the 600,000,000 euros, which will have to give us from the interest on Greek bonds? So we'll lose everything built with blood and trouble for an eight-year period. What are you gonna leave behind? Commitment of public property for a hundred years, devalued banks, indebted small and medium-sized enterprises, no primary sector, six hundred thousands of scientists abroad, one employee for every 1,34 pensioners and the demographic problem in the worst state since postmopulation. No hope of recovery from you. The only hope for recovery is the epitome of the eleven words of Mr.Mitsotakis: "Further taxes and contributions, more investment and better paid jobs." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u53	The next speaker is Mrs Vayonakis from SYRIZA. Mrs Kerameos and the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Army, will be followed. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly the most politically, economically and psychologically possible element of this budget that demonstrates in the most emphatic way that we are now out of a memorandum. In this budget we find neither a new negative measure nor a tax increase nor any of the things we have lived in the painful years of the memoranda. This is undeniable and comforts us, because we know that nothing was given, that much effort and insistence was needed to get here. What does that mean? Have all the problems solved? Of course not. It is simply today that we are in another phase where we can design and implement our policy by gaining part of our sovereignty. What has happened through the budget? A financial space is being created in 2019 of EUR 910,000,000, and on this basis we take the privilege of what the Prime Minister announced in Thessaloniki and we have already voted for many, reductions in insurance contributions and HISPIA, reductions in corporate taxation, aid for insurance contributions for young people, rent subsidies etc. Are these arrogances? I do not think, firstly, that these are permanent measures and, secondly, why we say which line to come out. What we do not know is where to find the 5 to 6 billion measures announced by Mr Mitsotakis in Thessaloniki and continues unsatisfactory at the Conference of New Democracy. We remove one of the Memorandum 'vulnerabilities' within the framework of the country's budgetary possibilities. You're telling us about high taxation. Indeed, taxation is still high, but it was high on your day too, mainly because of the deficits that your policy created at the time of prosperity, where the revenues of the Greek state were constantly falling short of costs and were permanently below the average of the European Union. On the contrary, the years 2016 and 2017 are recorded for the first time in modern Greek economic history a general government surplus. It is also known that a state cannot live without economic resources. The question is, where does it draw from these resources? We respond that in the years of our own governance, we have housed our finances and tried to hit tax evasion and tax evasion. The positive aspects of financial management are due to the effectiveness of a series of actions by our Government, according to the elements of the authorities and agencies. So we had the voluntary disclosure arrangement of taxable material from past years. By the end of the programme five hundred seven thousand sixty-seven-seven voluntary revelation statements amounting to a total of EUR 10.1 billion, of which EUR 795.300,000 was charged, i.e. close to EUR 800,000. We have introduced the extension of electronic transactions. It is estimated according to IOBE that this measure saves 300,000,000 euros with conservative calculations or 400,000,000 euros with more optimistic ones. We have improved the collection of VAT. This together with the check carried out on tourist destinations, uploaded what we call collectivity. We have also established an overview of the expenditure of the ministries of general government, etc. You say we're anti-developmental. However, here the evidence is falsifying you. Beyond the issue of the clear improvement of the investment sector in recent years - and it has been our choice - in a period of memoranda, we have drawn our attention to the attempt to re-establish the productive base of the country that you have broken up, even before the memoranda, and we are on a good footing. Indicative is the course of gross fixed capital which, based on ELSTAT's figures, from a negative figure until 2015, 2016 and 2017, went to an increase of 1.6% and 9.6%, respectively. It is the increase in the volume of net exports of 1.3% of GDP in the first half of 2018, which came from EUR 2.1 billion from the commodity balance and EUR 0.3 billion from the service balance. The report notes that growth levers in the first half of 2018 are exports and private consumption, which is expected to increase by 1% in 2018 compared to 2017. It is also the fact that, for the first time, several years after each closure, three new ones are opened according to the latest figures. All this leads to a slower change in the economic climate, but most importantly it leads to a fall in unemployment that currently reaches 18.3%. And for the first time, stable work has gone beyond flexible forms of work, a fruit that you had already brought as supposedly progressive. On Friday, I was delighted to see the unemployment rates in my country, Crete, falling into one-digit figures, but they are one-digit figures - 9.9%. It's, I think, a good start. I would like to end by saying this: there is a whole chapter in the budget on debt regulation and on its course. I do not hear any discussion about this. Why? Why then will the debate on the high growth prediction, which Mr Stavros said, also open up? This was done in order to show that debt was viable when the whole world thought it wasn't? Do you deliberately fail to mention that on the basis of the restructuring of the government's debt in June last year, does a clear corridor open up so that we can take care of our home? I am not going to talk about the strong, social signal that our policy has and is reflected in the budget. I spoke about this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, I firmly believe that the difficulties lie behind us, that the challenges are before us. And we have learned to go to the hardships and to accept the challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u55	Mrs Kerameo has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the fourth budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, a budget which could be termed the most anti-developing, but engraved with the pre-election of a failed government on a run-off. It is a budget without breath, without strategy, without vision for the future. And how could it be different when the budget relates to an economy seriously injured by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, an economy seriously injured for four main reasons. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Firstly, the country remains trapped in the Memorandum Age. Yes, the third SYRIZA Memorandum - ANEL formally, legally, has expired, but the country remains committed to strict Memorandum and strict supervision. You have accepted high budgetary targets for many years. You committed almost the entire Greek public property for a century. You have put the country in a strict regime of enhanced supervision an unprecedented European data regime. Secondly, the country has not been given access to international markets and the future is eradicated in view of the extremely high interest rates. Thirdly, the country's cash reserves were erroneously created, strangling the real economy. You have chosen, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, to exaggerate citizens and businesses. You have declared an internal payment stop and proceeded to excessive and expensive historical lending, scanning any liquidity from the real economy, and all this instead of claiming the untapped and low-cost resources of the loan of up to EUR 24 billion. For example, public investments collapsed in 2017 at the lowest level of the last decade, with their cumulative delay to date compared with the target of EUR 2.6 billion. Can you hear me, ladies and gentlemen? At the lowest height of the last decade! Fourthly, the economy of the country has not returned to normality. Why? Because the competitiveness of the economy is continuing to decline, because the debts of the citizens to taxi and insurance funds have been discharged by 60% since the end of 2014, because the government’s outstanding debts have not been cleared, despite government commitments, because the stock exchange has collapsed and the bank shares have been eliminated, and at the same time the state is growing excessively without planning exclusively on micro-group targeting. Ladies and gentlemen, an alternative economic policy plan exists, you simply do not want to implement it. It is a project that will aim to raise the pie for everyone, rather than share the already miserable pie, by simplifying taxation, through a generous reduction in tax rates on households and businesses, by implementing reforms that will enhance competitiveness. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to refer to the Ministry of Education's budget. I would like to ask the Minister for Education four questions. First, in the medium-term programme adopted in May 2018, the notorious countermeasures are included. Today, however, we see that these countermeasures, by magic, have disappeared from the budget. The missing countermeasures are of a net value of 1.3 billion euros. Of these EUR 1.3 billion, I would like to stand by the EUR 140 million that had been launched for pre-school education. And I ask directly, Minister: Where is this money lost and what will this loss have? I ask, because the two-year compulsory pre-school education, with which we are in agreement, was introduced in principle with Law 4521/2018. Then what did we tell you? We have given you practical questions, which arise from the implementation of the regulation, particularly if there are appropriations for the necessary human resources, if there are the infrastructure necessary to implement the measure throughout the territory. Then we didn't get any answers, and now I guess we're just going to figure out why. Secondly, the rapporteur's report states that the necessary appropriations have been provided for, inter alia, to cover the operation of public IEC. Minister, I have asked you eight questions about the huge problems of the malfunctioning of public IEK. I am referring to the non-payment of apprenticeship supervisors and trainers, the costs incurred by the managers themselves, the trainers themselves, the painters themselves, laboratory materials, the safety of the premises, the cleanliness. Minister, of these eight questions, do you know how many have you answered? None of the eight, Minister. You have not answered any of the eight questions about the serious malfunctions of the public IEK. Thirdly, with regard to the recruitment of four and a half thousand teachers and skilled staff in Special Education, which are, in fact, absolutely essential, according to Table 3,7, on page 51 of the report you have registered EUR 22 million for the strengthening of Special Education. I would like to ask, Minister, if you have calculated that the expenditure in question may be very high, because it seems that this amount has not been calculated, the pre-service to these teachers, their family situation and their additional qualifications, such as postgraduate qualifications, for example. Fourthly - last question but extremely important - for four years, Minister, we have heard your Government announcing permanent appointments to general primary and secondary education. Indeed, the educational population is old and they need permanent appointments. I remember, however, Mr Philie, as Minister of Education, announcing twenty thousand permanent appointments. How many? Nobody. I remember Mr. Vernardakis from announcing in January 2017 and saying to us: "The next week is an invitation to tender for the recruitment of teachers." A competition was opened? Oh, no. Now, then, your turn is coming, Minister, and you have announced permanent appointments to general education - I am talking about general education - already in 2019. And I ask: Where has this expenditure been entered in the budget if we are talking about 2019? Why is it not mentioned anywhere in the report? Is it another announcement without a reflection or, Minister, do you announce that you will not be a government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u57	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u58	Here, Minister, you have the floor. Please try to be as brief as possible, because if the ministers intervene after the sittings, they will not be able to speak by the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u59	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You're right. I will not answer all the questions, because they were questions of a type of alchemic type, and I can especially explain what I mean 'alchemic' type. What I want to say is this. Look. Do not be the first to panic about the possibility of permanent appointments, because you remember what New Democracy did? Remember the two and a half thousand redundancies? Yes or no? You made two and a half thousand redundancies to the teachers we hired. And now we have the line, these positions for Special Education, at threeteen thousand years in depth, and you say that the budget might not have taken into account benefits for postgraduate courses. If that's possible! You want these appointments? Are you going to support them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u60	You've been saying since 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u61	Are these appointments an indication, a proof that we're out of the tunnel? Yes or no? The rest are arguments, in fact, not the House level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Doussina has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. Following Mr Gabroglou's reference to alchemy, I also have to say to my fellow Member, Mr Kerameos, that in the debate in the Committee on the Constitution on Article 16, he said that thirty-seven thousand Greek students left last year to go abroad. When I replied to her, having the ETUC report before me, that all students are thirty-seven thousand and I asked her to withdraw, she said: 'No'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u64	I didn't say no, don't twist my words.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u65	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u66	I said it's abroad. Find the text of the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u67	All right, we'll find it. However, I remember that this debate was held on several occasions between us and I didn't hear you say...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u68	A few are thirty-seven thousand abroad? I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u69	No, I'm just saying that with the numbers, you seem not to have the best relationships that are understandable, and I don't have it, philosopher I am legal. Well, the debate on the budget that has been taking place these days and the same debate in the Committee on Revision of the Constitution is, I think, the abyssle gap that separates the Left from the Right and marks, I believe, precisely, the two plans for Greece of the 21st century. I am not going to talk today about economics and other issues, especially social rights, because we support the work of the unemployed, the emphasis on education and research, the upgrading of the social state, are the heart of our position. What's right? I met the right theory in London, Thatcher. For neoliberal rights, social rights are a limited safety net for the poorest, an extension of charity, and that is why rights appear exactly as benefits, as gifts, as a magnanimity of the state, which can always remove it if they do not like some of those who are entitled to take them. If given, they should not weaken market decisions, but be completely compatible with it, so the opposition is proposing in the Constitutional Review, firstly, the constitutionalisation of volunteering and, secondly, the minimum income for the poor who will turn to private services. It must be felt that the qualitative difference between the so-called free benefits of the social state and the private services purchased by the rich. Public universities and hospitals must be clearly excluded from private hospitals in order to recognise and strengthen social inequality. It is not enough for the suite in the private clinic, there must be ranch in public hospitals and long tails. The demonstration of wealth must be complemented by the humiliation of poverty. This is the cultural misery of capitalism, the aesthetics of immorality. We have also seen all this in Britain in detail. Universities are public, but neoliberal conservatives and labour governments have removed state funding for teaching, and so they have forced universities to charge tuition fees right now at EUR 9 000 per year. Only then were private universities established 'Huron', 'Arden', 'BPP', 'Richmond'. Have you heard of them? You obviously have not heard them, because there is no British recognition of their international existence. The deterioration of the public health and welfare system followed. In 1994, the Treasury of Universities returned our contributions until then, provided they were taken to private companies. And you would have heard a few days ago that my British colleagues had a bigger strike at universities, precisely because now the fund can't pay for their pensions. This is what the talented supporters of private education and health want to impose here as well. Of course, for the children of the dynasty, for those who were born with a silver spoon in the mouth, the expensive university was and will be their inherited right, for the child from Perama will become an unfettered dream. The most accidental event in our life that we are born to be, whether I am born in Aigaleo or Akali, this will fully determine our future, canceling the little mobility of post-multiple. For us, the Left, social rights are not the relief of poverty, nor do they lead to lower-quality services. Their aim is to transform social inequalities, to block capitalism with a measure of social justice. Social inequalities should not restrict the basic aspects of human well-being, health, education, welfare. So to mention two indicative figures, the Social Welfare Budget has been up by 400% since 2015 and the research budget - Mr Gavroglou said about education - doubled this year in 2 billion, compared to what they were doing in the survey in 2003, namely at the time of fat cows. For us social rights must be promoted and supported, in order to reverse the typical equality of capitalism, by ensuring material conditions for the exercise of freedom and equality. Because government and power are different entities, the left government strengthens the social state to weaken social power. So we start the long journey to social transformation with a view to equality and democracy, transfer resources from capital to workers and power from the state to the citizens. Mr Mitsotakis' policy on the rights of minorities and refugees, the extreme right-wing turn to the 'Macedonian', unfortunately, shows that the New Democracy has abandoned the European and liberal acquis. The only policy left is that of intimidation in both forms. An external fear is cultivated, a fear of external dangers, rather of imaginary external dangers, and on the other hand the stress, the cultivation of an internal repressive overweight, a fuss that does not let you calm down. The government will cut pensions, cut rights, ban Christmas. The fantastic aliens of Mr. Mitsotakis give an alibi to his own fears, highlighting his failures to his opponents, to us, and to try to impose them on the rest of society. I really have a big problem with colleagues like Mr Kumoucasco who are here, and many others who are politically liberal, to the extent that they accept this extreme right-wing turn, to the extent that they accept the complete release of economic from political freedom, political liberalism. I call on such colleagues, politically liberal, as President of the Nicos Pouldzas Institute, to have a public debate, precisely to discuss the rise of the extreme right, the relationship between economic and political liberalism. It is an invitation to colleagues, to the political colleagues on the right. Because I think it is important that these arguments, not the voices and the cries, should also be heard by the public in a debate. For us, by end, the social state and rights are the heart of our vision and political programme. Here will be opposed to the progressive and conservative concept of the 21st century, and I believe that when the world understands what a divide between us, victory will again be of SYRZIA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u70	Now I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Army.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Madam President. To repeat, too, the incomprehensible and absolute condemnation of the terrorist attack at the SKAI broadcasting station. Pluralism and pluralism are the foundationstone for our democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, having followed the debate in Parliament in the past few days, the picture is this. The Government brings the first Memorandum of Understanding to the figures of its already adopted policies, with a strong social and development mark, signalling the country's clear exit from the memoranda. Opposition rumors the so-called "uccess story" and the 2014 government's failed line. Today, extremist destructiveism has also been added, as has the civil war rhetoric. I believe that Mrs Marcos' speech needs to be made more widely and, of course, to give deep consideration to it. Going through culture, I'm going to stand on some characteristic points. The Minister for Culture on Friday analysed all the elements and policies. In its positions, opposition spoke of failure to exploit the NRP by the Ministry of Culture in relation to the completion of projects or the integration of new ones. The reality, however, is completely different. Number of projects in the 2007-2013 programming period had remained outstanding and it really needed a great deal of effort to solve the problems. Thus, from the six hundred and fifty - four works of that programming period by the end of 2014, the natural object had been completed in just a hundred and twenty - six. All the rest were completed after 2015. In relation to the current programming period 2014-2020, the design that had already been locked up by the previous government left culture with no specific funds, without a separate operational programme of culture and no concessions from other operational programmes, when in general the resources of the NRP for cultural infrastructure, based on the design that was then, are extremely limited. At the same time, there was no care for maturation studies, which are essential for the integration of projects. In other words, we have received a situation which is either prolonged or wrongly designed, not to say deliberately undermined to fail. And yet we have managed to have at the moment a hundred and twenty-five projects that are being implemented throughout the country, with a budget of 165 million, while new integrations are expected in calls running and a new round of calls for even more integration. At the same time, looking ahead, we are conducting maturation studies with 10 million funding, so that there is a readiness for the next programming period. So we're doing what the previous government didn't do. For the so-called transfer of monuments and archaeological sites to the Greek Company of Participation and Property, the so-called "superior", a rhetoric that the Anti-Population is abstract, we will not be tired of repeating that the exceptions to the law and decision of the Ministry of Finance are clear: No property of political heritage has been transferred or will be transferred to the ETA, at least from our own government. We therefore remind you that the only property of cultural heritage that has been transferred is the property of the Ministry of Culture in Plaka, which the previous government has transferred for divestment to the GIDED with signatures from the then-described ministers, who are now leading the noise that is being made. For our part, we are bringing regulation to the House, which, covering a gap in the archaeological law of 2002, ensures that the monuments, museums and property of the Ministry of Culture serve the public purpose of protecting and promoting our cultural heritage. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In its speeches, Opposition also mentioned failure to modernise the operation of archaeological sites and museums. So we recall that from the previous government we have received an obsolete and inefficient ticketing system for the monuments and museums of the country, a system costing EUR 2 million and its maintenance more than 500,000 from 2012 until today. We proceeded to the important intersection of the online ticket, a request for many years, which we made through an exemplary cooperation with the private sector with donors and contractors. It is a complete computer ticket and access control system for visitors, with the possibility of issuing tickets online, which is the beginning of a new era for managing our cultural heritage. All this at zero construction cost for the public and at zero maintenance costs for the first two years, as well as covered by the donation. Equally unveilingly about the different strategy of government and opposition in culture, however, they are also the ones that the Opposition avoids: Opposition avoids damage to cultural heritage revenues in 2012. Among the funds that were tired at that time, the Fund of Archaeological Resources, the FTL, which collects revenue from the monuments and museums of the country, was also the Fund of Archaeological Resources. The PSI cut 15 million off the cultural heritage revenues, while enclosing in bonds of no value but 15 million. Our Government has managed to significantly increase the revenues of archaeological sites, monuments and museums, by supplementing with this the well-known reserves of the TAP and by increasing the funding from this to the Ministry of Culture. Revenues from 56.8 million in 2014 amounted to 104.5 million in 2007, rising to 84%, while for 2018 they are expected to be even higher, with a two-digit annual growth rate. The overall funding of the LAG to the Ministry of Culture from just 22 million in 2014 reached 60 million in 2018, while a new increase is expected in 2019. Opposition avoids the Solidarity Fund for Officials of the Ministry of Culture, the creation of previous governments, which was financed abundantly by public money. Silence in the movement of public money between political and trade union leadership in the Ministry of Culture, as well as in the other cases of mismanagement investigated by justice at the highest level. It will soon be called upon to place it in public. It has already been sent to the General Secretariat of the Government, and immediately after the celebrations, a draft law will be passed in Parliament. With the same bill, the Acropolis Museum Creation Agency closes and integrates into the Acropolis Museum, resolving yet another looseness left us by previous governments. Anti-Politicism has averted the unified price of the book, a European acquis that was abolished in 2014 by the then government, which we restored through a new full framework, healing a monumental wound in the area of culture. Opposition avoids the abundant social activities of the Ministry of Culture and its institutions, silences the socialisation of our cultural heritage, its opening up to society and its organic connection to the modern issues of our time. Opposition prevents the protection and enhancement of antiquities by investment and development. We all remember the metro of Thessaloniki, the Greek and the case of Afantos, how they were dealt with in the past and the mutually beneficial solutions that our Government gave. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 we made a difficult compromise. However, we have come to the Greek people sincerely and said to him clearly. That's what we wanted to do, so we'll try, that's what we brought. Our people have trusted us to manage this result and we have managed it through the improvement of the economy, strong social care, protection of labour and the deep areas and reforms that have not been carried out in this place for for forty years. This is exactly what the budget shows the country's clear exit from the memoranda and the prospects that open up ahead. This does not mean that our work is over. It is just as important and crucial that we should make use of the significant degrees of freedom that we have put together, with the over-conservative forces in our country and in Europe, which are making use of the legacy of the past and which are working on their nationalist and intolerance agenda. We, step by step in the day, open the way between the others and for a more substantial relationship between our people and the cultural heritage of the country, with modern culture and artistic creation. We are paving the way for a better world, for another world that is still not only feasible but also necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u72	Mr Venizelos has the floor now. I shall then give Mr Mavrotas the floor, as a parliamentary representative, and then to Mr Drasakis from the turn of the ministers, to relax those who are waiting for.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 budget is the last of the period that began in January 2015. It summarizes all the implications of the political choices which have been made in a raw and cynical manner during this period. I want to ask everyone where the country would now be, if it had not been interrupted in January 2015, the effort started in 2010 and was reinitiated in 2012. But the most practical thing is to ask ourselves when the country will return where it was at the end of 2014. The latest OECD report says that in 2020 households may return where they were in 2014. This does not mean that only six years have passed. There is irreparable long-term harm, because developmental effects in particular are recurring for many years. According to the debt sustainability study, the growth impact reaches 2060 until the repayment of the existing debt. But let me begin with the simple problems associated with the conditions of exit from the third memorandum, where the country entered as it entered in July 2015, without any reason. The reason was created by the government's policies from the irresponsibility and cynicism of the first half of 2015. The first is that we have an exit, supposedly, from the memorandum without entering the markets, without a preventive credit line, with a security cushion that actually meets the financial needs of 2019. The period from 2020 onwards is an uncovered period. As long as we bear in mind that now the spread of the ten-year Greek bonds in relation to Germany is about 420 units, while in March - April 2010 when the country entered the first Memorandum, that was at 345 units. The second element we need to record is the loss of the development benefit that the country would have, if it were at least in the last phase of the quantitative relaxation programme, the most famous QE of the European Central Bank that is now over. And it would have joined the country if there were a preventive credit line. We would have levered in various ways in a development direction, around 30 to 40 billion euros. The third element is the concentration of all the liquidity of the wider public sector, at the expense of the market, at the expense of growth, through flows and, more generally, through short-term debt management and, of course, this is at the expense of the real economy. The fourth element, perhaps the most critical and tangible, is the situation of the banking system. The inability to solve the issue of insurmountable non-performing reports only by accountancy, which are also important, but is not the essence of the problem, with an increase in private debt, with the loss of the public bank portfolio in bank shares and the worst without national savings, without new deposits, i.e. without credit expansion, i.e. without loans that could feed growth. The fifth is that the country does not have an insurance system. We are pleased that a cut in the personal difference has been abolished, which was useless when it was passed in 2017 after the Katorugalou Act, but then it was formulated as a measure, which will be balanced with very important social measures of around EUR 2 billion for social policy. Except that, instead of doing so, we finally have the preservation that should not have been called into question, without being able to deal with the system at the moment, neither the question of judicial decisions nor the bomb of retrospectives as a whole nor the new generation of trials that will cause the young pensioners, who have equal time for insurance, have often paid more insurance contributions, and, of course, they will be settled much less. It is no coincidence that the decision taken by the Council of State on the constitutionality of the Katrugalo Law is delayed, as new legislative arrangements are being inserted, which the judge must take into account. The big issue, however, is the country's Babylonish captivity in the criminal arrest of overcrowding, which is a great, a colossal trap of poverty. Because the country is being captured in anemic growth, and indeed in growth which is hollow, the composition of GDP, this 2% increase, has such a complex that it is difficult to repeat, and instead we have allowances, that is, the distribution of misery dividends. How can you claim as a country a reduction in the primary surplus target, emphasizing the denominator of the fraction, namely the increase in GDP, when you are stumbled and proud that you can achieve surpluses? How? Through overtaxation, overweighting on insurance contributions and ultimately through the practice of class policy. The government tells you: "Don't worry about it, we take it from others and give it to others." Only 20% of natural persons cover income tax on natural persons and 4.5% of enterprises cover income tax on legal persons. Is that so? Is this a class redistribution? Think of the family as an economic unit. It maintains the personal difference in retirement yes, and it can give a small family allowance to the granddaughter, who remains unemployed, without unemployment and without a prospect of finding a good job, because anemic growth does not allow job creation. And the intermediate generation father - if it is outside the labour market or under precarious working conditions - cannot find a prospect. But is the redistribution given only to those who are not taxed? Special wages, doctors, university teachers, judges, uniforms are not with the current data below the middle level. Here, with EUR 20,000 annual income, a private worker is subject to a dramatic and irreversible tax burden. Because there is a charge on VAT and indirect taxes anyway. The dismantling of the middle class is the one that acts as a lever for the captivity of the whole country to the anemic development and the anticipation of a subsidised policy, that is, the most anti-development that can have happened. In a short time, however, everyone will better and really measure their overall benefit or overall harm to an individual and family level and, above all, will see their perspective.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u74	Finish, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u75	I shall conclude, Madam President. I know the arguments, I hear them from Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Juliarakis 'and you would take measures' or 'you also took measures of 65 billion'. When? In 2010? In 2011? With a budget deficit of 15.7% of GDP, that is 36 billion, and a primary deficit of 10.7% of GDP, that is 26 billion, without schools, hospitals being able to operate?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u76	How did we get there?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u77	In 2015, you received the country under primary surplus conditions. In 2014, the cyclically adjusted primary surplus that the country had achieved was 5.4% of GDP, if the country operated on the basis of forecasts for the growth rate, what was wasted in SYRIZA's cynical policies, 2.9% of 2015, 3.7% of 2016 and so on. The budget therefore reflects the mineworking of the next parliamentary term, at least until 2022. I must say that the next government must very carefully formulate the new financial framework within which the country will move forward. There's no return to any normality. We must be aware. Those who think the country has become normal before, and we can talk about election benefits, are criminalizing the prospect of the place. We have a society angered and tired, but not ready to take over the national recovery operation, because SYRIZA wants it dependent, few, fearful, divided under the influence of social automation. That is why the economic problem is institutional and political. That is why it is important to change correlations, the SYRIZA's strategy of defeat, to implement an integrated national correction plan under the guarantee of a progressive democratic party.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u78	Finish, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u79	I conclude, Madam President, with a phrase on yesterday's morning, rather the morning morning, which is the 'SCAI'. You will allow me to say that the raw criminal energy against the 'SKAI' was aimed at the heart of democracy, not only with the material force of the explosion but with the fierce symbolism of the silence he wanted to impose. Luckily he succeeded in the opposite. That is the power of democracy and pluralism. But it is not enough to condemn such actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Venizelo, please, finish it. You've spoken five more minutes. Respect the others. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u81	Resistance to the dispersion of democracy, the fight against blackmail and the deterioration of institutions is needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Black, you have the floor. Please, there are no inequality here. Everyone must speak the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u83	Ten minutes says the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u84	It says seven here. I'm doing what the list says. Let go of them now, the worshippers of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Mavrotas, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Let me start with today's terrorist attack on SKAI in a few words. We must not let terrorism and fear win. And they'll win if they lead to more division and less democracy. The democratic forces must be united. Whatever separates us is smaller. Today, we agree or disagree with this particular station, something much greater is being threatened, democracy itself is being threatened. So without 'yes', without asterisks, we condemn bombers who want to dynamise the political climate and soar fear, hatred and division. It would be good to lift the toxic climate, as the President of the New Democracy also described as the two major parties, New Democracy and SYRIZA, lift the embargo on the media to show in practice that such attacks are persuading and making information and democracy more possible. Let me come to the subject of the debate. Today we are discussing the first Memorandum of Understanding, which is unfortunate to be an election budget. In 2019, it will certainly be a year of parliamentary elections - and not just - a parameter that seems to play a decisive role in the government's choices. Through the few degrees of freedom it has, it seems to shape a budget by looking not at the next generations but at the next polls. I wouldn't blame her that much for that. It's normal and expected. Everyone has done the same and done the same thing, as we have seen in the last few days, but the "category" goes on to say that between short-sighted tactics and long-term perspectives, the first wins overwhelmingly and not marginally, as would be acceptable to our society and our economy. And I explain: To support the social state, you need resources. Now that we do not have the protected lending environment with the institutions, we need to borrow from the markets. We still can't. The interest rates are forbidden, i.e. the government lives the drama of the Greek company today, which cannot be borrowed, except that the government has the "cushion" of 26.6 billion. But attention. This "cushion" can be used to impact, to sleep more comfortable, but it can also be used to drown you from asphyxiation. So the thing is how you're gonna use it. If you have it as security to make all the necessary moves, give the signals to regain confidence, then yes it's a security pillow. But if you have it to eat it without worrying about the next day, since you won't be a government anyway, then it's the pillow of suffocation. Back to the budget which, in my opinion, is the most interesting thing in voting for this, it is neither that it is the first memorandum nor that it was made by Greek hands, as we have heard, but that because the budget has a sense of confidence in the government, it will be very interesting to see tomorrow evening how those - and well - will be doing everything they can to prevent the unpleasant events that are coming. Let's go to both numbers and numbers. This budget shows that we are targeting the wrong figures. We are achieving the objectives of the surpluses, the result of overtaxation is, moreover, we are failing to achieve the objectives of growth. Last year we predicted a growth of 2.5% for 2018, and we will barely reach 2%. So you're gonna tell me better than before, where we predicted 2.7% and finally got half, 1.4%. One piece we miss is growth. But growth means production and even production in market and extroverting sectors. The growth, the growth of pie, as we say, also needs investment. And here, let me come to the main part of my speech where the investments are. The most disappointing element of the budget is in Table 1.3 of the report, page 31. It is the investment growth for 2018 expressed in terms of gross fixed capital formation. It is estimated, therefore, that in 2018 an increase in investments of 0.8% compared to 2017, which is also doubtful, because the first nine months we had a 6% reduction. Last year, do you know how much investment would be anticipated? I read from the Minutes from my speech last year: 'The pro-investment climate that the country needs to achieve 11.4% - so we predicted last year - unfortunately we do not see it.' That's what I said last year, and I was right. Since the 11.4% increase in investment forecasted by last year's budget, we have finally caught 0.8%, i.e. fourteen times below. Why, then, is investment not going well? Because we fell, we fall, and I'm afraid we're going to fall out all the time. What is your project beyond overtax or bureaucracy and we have said all these times, your work, your own weapon in removing investments is ideological intolerance to the private. You're declaring the state and demonizing the non-state. You even baptize it as a "neo-liberal" and clean it. This is clearly seen in the Constitutional Review, too. We are talking about Article 16 of the Constitution. And why do you hear us talk so persistently about investments? Why should the elderly and the old retired have a fundamental interest in investment? Because the debate should have been a one-thematic one on investment, the debate that should take place in society. Because if the retired person wants to retire, some have to work to fund the insurance system. Our insurance system is not rewarding, it is redistributive and the state funding of the insurance system will constantly go down. So, if there are jobs to finance the insurance system - which we now have a pensioner and some 1,3-1,4 workers - we need production. And we need well-paid jobs and not part-time work of EUR 300 and EUR 400, because how, with these wages, the pensions of EUR 800 and EUR 1,000 will be financed? In order to produce a country which, over the last decade, has suffered a dramatic disinvestment, we need investment. Instead of having it as a one-sided field of discussion, whether pensions will be cut short and how much pensions will be cut, instead of building political, legal and journalistic careers on this issue - pensioners are jealous, both electoral and television and professional - instead of making people crazy about cuts or not pensions, let us see how we attract investment in order to heal the insurance system. Allow me to add one last and perhaps the most important factor of exulting investment from our country. This is no longer the political system itself. Investment requires an environment of political and economic stability. Our political system is a generator, a transmitter of uncertainty. With this dramatic lack of understanding and consensus, from the smallest to the biggest - and here in plenary - we see this - our political system is a generator of uncertainty. But polarization and the two major parties are not in the interests of the country. The uncertainty, the variability is gigantic. One of the two criteria that investors usually take into account, namely performance and risk, our country can win from the first - from performance - is once again losing it in the second risk, so that it is not in the first choices of rational, prudent investors. And the cost of trust is reflected in both the Greek Exchange and the deposits that do not return to the banks and the 10-year bonds of the Greek State. And all this when we have a critical assessment in the country on 27 February, which will also send messages to the markets. So it's a milestone on February 27th. If the ten-year bond interest rates do not fall below 4%, but climb over 5% -6%, then we will start to dive out the pillow, bringing interest rates even more up in a self-supporting cycle of insecurity. However, it is not only large investment in key growth levers, it is or should be at least medium and medium-sized entrepreneurship. But when, in a medium-sized company that makes profits of 50,000 a year, it will have less than 20,000, 18,565, in fact, after tax and insurance contributions, which are actually taxes, too - it has no incentive to develop, as it will only work to pay taxes and contributions. Even reducing the tax rate from 29% to 26%, which was to be done in 2019, you recently got it back and made it escalator, to take this money from growth to your election patronage. So in order to work harder, to expand, to create jobs, to hire by overtaxation and strangulation, it will never do so and so the most creative part of our society is this of medium-sized and medium-sized enterprises that moves the economy, it will always be in lethargy. I shall end with a few words on costs and expenses. The public, ladies and gentlemen, has the following problem, which the last citizen sees and is summarised in a proposal. Lacks on the front line and surpluses on the rear, where the first line is doctors, nurses, teachers. So when we have an increase in public wages, if she goes to meet the needs of the first line, she has good. However, if it goes for posteris who increased from 2015 to 2018 by 28% or on board board boards of various entities that increased from 2015 to 2018 by 29%, then this shows a customer perception of the state, which means that you, like the previous ones, see the state as a spoil of power instead of a lever of growth. To conclude, the budget you are taunting has sacrificed the development breath on the altar of the election tactic. Fair growth does not mean miserable growth. Fair growth is sustainable growth with its three pillars - economic growth, social cohesion and respect for the environment - to be all three strong, and therefore indicators such as GINI or S80/S20, which show the unequal distribution of income, must be involved as key decision-making criteria in all decision-making processes along with GDP or investment. However, this is conditional on wealth being produced and poverty is not recycled. Besides, the wonder of the social state in post-war Europe, the generous European social state, was based on the wealth created by investment, entrepreneurship, innovation, the interconnection of knowledge with production, excellence, solidarity, consensus and the composition of opinions. Instead of focusing on the doctrine 'first we produce, then we share', you carry out 'first we drain and then we share and at the end we vote'. With the 2019 budget, it is clear that the development policy that produces economic fruit in the medium term is sacrificed to the altar of subsidised policy, which produces votes in the short term. It is a'mouzour' budget, which moves the problem of the implementation of promises to the next government, which, with these notes in hand, should convince the markets to have confidence and to lend it. Difficult crossword for strong solvers and active catalysts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u86	Minister Drasakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, before I enter the budget, I would like to condemn the attack on the SKAI television station and express my sympathy to the workers at the station. As far as the 2019 budget is concerned, it marks the exit from the memoranda and the committee. It's the first memorial budget. I would like to remind Mr Venizelos that there is no way out of the memorials. The second Memorandum not only had not been completed, it had been completed. And as for where the country would be if the January 2015 change were not the case, it can be thought that whether we had memorials or as he said a preventive line, i.e. measures equivalent to the Memorandum. The primary surpluses of 4.5% committed by the previous governments could not be implemented and could not be collected EUR 50 billion from privatisations. The government, in keeping with its promise, coming out of the memorials today, achieving the recovery of the economy and changing the time of things, gains credibility for the country, gains the confidence of society. Although the legacy of the crisis is still heavy, what economists say, the trend in sizes, the time of things, has already changed. The unemployment rate from about 26% we received has fallen to 18%. In fact, companies planning to recruit next year are today recorded at 70% of an investigation, compared with 53% last year. Of course, we still have a long way to go but it is important to reduce unemployment, as is the case. National income after a deep and protracted recession, which some forget, has gone to a recovery orbit and this year is expected to close the year with 2% perhaps more. The balance between the companies that are closing and the companies that open up has become positive, and especially this year, as the GFCM figures show, for each company that closes, three are the ones that open, and the other has previously been the case. The wounds left by bankruptcy are deep and some will take time to heal completely. But with our policy, we gain degrees of freedom, we gain a financial space, and most importantly we make use of these possibilities, in order to relieve priority those who have been hit most by the crisis. And for those who complain about an allowance policy, I would like to mention a allowance that they would like to abolish. Did the minimum guaranteed income in this Chamber ten years ago - perhaps more - when I had brought a proposal for a law, voted against all the parties? Is the rent subsidy to help new couples get a residence? The New Democracy faces the budget with obvious discomfort. One says that what we give to strengthen society is electoral benefits that are supposedly harming the economy, at the other time it says that what we give is crumbs and the New Democracy will give more. What I would like to stress is that all the measures and actions provided for in the budget, from the gradual abolition of HISPIA, until collective bargaining, etc., are not exceptional benefits, but are permanent provisions of the new social state that we are creating and which we want, in fact, to establish constitutional arrangements. This is a critical dividing line in our time for our country and for Europe, if, in other words, we want the constitutionalisation of neoliberalism, that is, the minimum welfare state, privatisation, the inequalities ultimately at the expense of many as the New Democracy wants, or if we want the constitutional shielding of society by guaranteeing social and democratic rights, with the protection of common and public goods, as the current government supports and does. The central task, ladies and gentlemen, after the memoranda, is to plan for the future, plan policies that we need to implement, transformations that we need to do in a world that runs great changes and overthrows under the influence of the fourth industrial revolution, the pressure on climate change, the challenge of enlarged inequalities, the dangers of trade and other wars. We therefore need a system of democratic planning of the country's progress and development. To have a comparison measure, I would like to inform you that Ireland has drawn up a ten-year investment programme and a planning framework for the development of the country in 2040. The governments of the past to us, as the New Democracy continues to do, trapped in a naive neoliberal view that growth is being made by the markets themselves, had stripped the state from any possibility of planning or producing sectoral or sectoral policies. We had to start from scratch. The regional development conferences held throughout the country proved to be a very good practice. At the same time, we completed the national development strategy, which is a strong starting point for the next steps. Based on the development strategy, the objectives of sustainable development of the UN and the guidelines for Europeans, we are now setting up multiannual sectoral programmes. Already the Ministry of Energy has given a consultation of the national energy and climate plan, setting specific quantitative targets for 2030 and beyond. The Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction implements “National Strategy for Administrative Reform 2017-2021” and, at the same time, prepares for the first time a four-year recruitment programme, which will be a part of the rational management of public administration human resources. Corresponding multiannual programmes shall be implemented or prepared in the areas of the circular economy, transport, logistics, digital strategy, etc. In the Ministry of Economy and Development, we are drawing up a multiannual plan to increase exports to bring about 50% of national income, and we are preparing an institutional section that will allow us to move from annual public investment budgets to multiannual budgets or five-year development programmes. Finally, a study is being carried out in cooperation with the OECD in order to lay the foundations for a multiannual regional convergence programme. Within this framework of the five-year Public Investment Programme, although it will be lower in terms of resources than the NRP, it will operate as the National Development Plan, which will implement the National Development Strategy and specificise national development and social objectives, compiling the individual projects in a coherent programme. This will also make it possible to limit - if not abolish - the overcompensation and under-compensation observed in the implementation of public investment and also employ many fellow Members with their questions often. This phenomenon has nothing to do with the creation of surpluses, as the Opposition erroneously states, but it is a chronic problem, which has nothing to do with the lack of planning for evaluation and effective control of how the Public Investment Programme is implemented. We are still preparing and tabling a motion for a resolution shortly, which will set out how these five-year national development programmes should be drawn up and monitored. The first such programme should be ready for implementation on 1 January 2021, when the new programming period begins and the new 'ESDP 2021-2027', which we hope will be adopted soon and will be at least 8% increased, as foreseen by the European Commission's proposal. At the same time, we are creating the institutional framework for the new model of growth, the new model of entrepreneurship, investment and financing that corresponds to it. The New Democracy raises all the problems - regarding entrepreneurship, investment, development - in the issue of taxation, the existing issue of taxation. It creates, however, unconsciously populates, because it conceals the country's bankruptcy, which was largely the result of the chronic undertaxation, tax evasion, tax evasion, as well as the disastrous consequences of the first and second memorandum. But companies themselves, aware of budgetary constraints, as has shown in recent survey, are predominant to 70% as their main problem with bureaucracy and the high administrative costs that this entails. The MODY'S also considers as one of the four factors affecting the country's merits the digitisation of public services, especially those relating to businesses. So on the basis of this data, we are changing not only politics but also philosophy. After years of announcement we act "Firstly empty, then I check". Already fifty-five thousand companies have notified their establishment on the relevant platform in this way. We are now forming the new single audit mechanism, which is a complement to this new system. Finally, we are digging all the procedures for the establishment, operation, supervision of businesses. As you know, the digital 'one-stop shop', which allows business to be set up and has already been set up by more than a thousand businesses in a few hours or a few minutes. This new logic will be extended over the next few months across the business spectrum. These changes result in the reduction of administrative costs, and this is important in particular for small enterprises, which are most charged. Most importantly, however, we are creating rules that are objective, transparent and universal. We are thus changing the attitude of both the state and business, looking for a new relationship not of mutual suspicion and hostility but of cooperation. We are overcoming the anachronistic legacy of mutual suspicion, which inherited governments that otherwise were in favour of business and sworn to entrepreneurship. And in so far as budgetary conditions allow, of course, we are now moving towards targeted tax reductions, for example, the reduction of the income tax on legal persons from 29% to 25% over the next four years. As far as investment is concerned, New Democracy and PASOK should be ashamed of their past and of the situation they have delivered. They delivered a state that had turned it into a party pit and delivered a development law that had made it their personal clientele, as they testify to reports of all the control mechanisms - Greek and European - but even the prosecutors' investigations that do not say to end, even though there have been so many years since. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the Vice-President of the Government]] I'm gonna need two, three more minutes, Madam President. We solve the accumulated problems of the past, create a transparency regime, and on this basis the new development law operates, without interference, without customer or selective practices of the past. At the same time we have worked out and are already in consultation with the draft law on strategic investment. We also create new support structures for small and medium-sized enterprises and give special incentives for the establishment in our country of either foreign investment or, in particular, intra-group services such as research centres and other related activities. The area of funding is at the stage of creating a package of some fifty financial instruments and programmes covering financial gaps - it is the parallel banking system we have just said - and identified needs mainly concerning small businesses, farmers and free traders. Together with the Ministry of Finance we have completed the draft law on microcredits and the next few days will be posted for consultation. Finally, the National Development Bank bill is completed with the technical assistance and cooperation of the French Development Bank and will be given consultation from the new year. I will table for the Minutes at the end of my speech the list of these fifty-four financial programmes for Members' information, because they are not well-known. With regard to PPPs, for which questions are also being asked, we are also open to these forms of funding, in order to cover faster gaps in infrastructure. Based on international experience, we have set a payment limit at around 20% of the National Public Investment Programme. We therefore have a financial space to accept such programmes, which we quickly approve, after, of course, by the necessary control to prevent over-prices and to ensure the public interest. As far as private debt is concerned, which is one of the most painful legacy of the crisis, it is also a priority of the next period. We have tabled an amendment, which will be voted on before the end of the year for the extension of the extrajudicial mechanism, which will be accompanied by further simplification and extension of its scope. Soon, too, the protection of first residence will be clarified and the relevant regulation will come to Parliament. Our aim is to protect this, to extend to the first residence of professionals, to protection of a permanent nature and to be accompanied by a broader housing policy for those who are not resident. The new model of development we are creating requires the active involvement of society. That is why we have specialised the Ministry's development strategy in a hundred forty-two actions and we have posted his relevant action plan on the Ministry's site. That's how we're open to society control. And this is a form of permanent public accountability. I will table in the Minutes the main draft laws which are being prepared and which I think are areas for our country and which will employ Parliament in the next few months. All this shows that the development strategy is taking place. All of this shows that the exit from the memoranda allows us to turn not only to the poorest layers of society, as we had to do after 2015, 2016 and so on, but also to turn to the problems of intermediate blocks and middle class. By exploiting the degrees of freedom we have gained, by exploiting the financial space that we have achieved with our policy, we can set more ambitious targets and I believe that in the next elections the Greek people will trust us for another four years to complete precisely these objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-eight students and students and three teachers from the 2nd General High School of Agia Varvaras. We welcome you to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Guys, we're talking about the state budget for 2019. This is an important moment for Parliament and we are glad that you are with us. I will now give the floor to Mr Hatzidakis - who is changing with Mrs Gara - and then Mrs Gara will speak. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Gara. Ladies and gentlemen, the day after the bombing of SKAI - and that would happen with any attack anywhere - is certainly a day of melancholy, but it is not a day of fear. We all have to stand up to the extremes and extremes, because it really does not fit a modern European democratic country, what is happening at this level in our country and is still happening over the last few years. We are an exception to the European Charter and I do not think that all democrats - regardless of individual accessions - can be pleased with this image. In any case, I come to the point. The Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Drasakis, certainly likes me, and he knows it himself and I think he is to all of us. I did not, however, hear what he said in the same spirit and I will explain immediately by insisting on evidence. While the government celebrates how things go, see what the picture is. Overtaxation strangles the economy. We are the first country in the OECD to increase taxation from 2015 to today. Even worse the situation has escaped and we have the worst proportion of all recent years of indirect taxes, which a shipowner and a retired person pays them equally. And this is done by a government representing Robin of the Poverty. I heard Mr. Drasakis saying there were years of undertaxation. In fact, it was low VAT, it was low fees for oil, drinks, and you didn't even decide to put them up, so that the householders could pay more to the supermarket. At the level of competitiveness that is crucial for how the economy progressed, while we had gone to the World Bank from a hundred to sixty in three years, from 2012 to 2015, we have retreated and are in the seventh second. Despite the positive words of creditors, Greece is retreating. And that is a critical size, for what I shall refer to immediately, which is investment. In terms of investment from Greece and abroad - large, medium and small - we have one third of the investments we had in 2007, i.e. two years before we were in the crisis. We have 1/3 in absolute numbers. You want me to go to something you care about, and you used to advertise it in public investment? So in the Public Investment Programme, we have a low decade. In 2017, it closed with a low decade. And, of course, it is not the programming of the previous years. It is up to the government's conscious decision to get it the budget numbers to work against the Public Investment Programme, which finances useful and critical projects in the country. The development law you so celebrated when you adopted him is almost in the theory sphere after two - three years. On the ETUC from this step, the Prime Minister claims from time to time - I hope he will avoid it tomorrow - that we are first in the European Union. It's just a bit too much. I saw the European Commission's site. On the basis of the European Commission, we are seventeenths in the payments of the projects to the absorption, and twenty-seconds in the compatibility of the projects. Someone would hold on to your words. Should we go to the banks? Mr. Drasakis spoke of the parallel banking system. Before we see the parallel banking system, let's see the systemic banks the four main banks. In 2014, their capitalisation was about 35 billion euros and now is just over 3 billion euros. Do you understand that? Do you consider all these positive signs? All I said about competitiveness, public investment, private investment, banks, are all signs of a healthy economy? No matter what these are, and the evidence I shall quote immediately. Development from 2015 to 2017 in Portugal 6.1%, in Cyprus 9.3%, in Ireland 13%, while Greece cumulatively had 0.9% in all three years. You, of course, are not bent on it. You're at this stage of constant celebrations. And while sharing showers - you get ten, you return one - you try to forget what the citizens experience in their pockets. And in their pocket they experience the twenty-nine taxes you imposed from 2015 until today. In their pocket they realize that their tax debts and insurance funds on your days have risen by 60%. In their pocket they experience 4.9 seizures made over your days. Should I say it differently? A million fellow citizens have woken up since 2015, they have checked their bank accounts and seen that their Ministry of Finance has taken their money. And the worst communication policy to make, all wrong to do, the elections will be lost, because people experience reality in their households, in their pockets, in their homes. In any case, it is certain that this situation, while you remain, will continue in the next period. You're already committed to the primary surpluses that's been going for forty more years by 2060. You've made commitments to the superstition going for ninety more seven years by 2115. And, above all, you're acting like a government pushing down the economy. Why? Because you have on the one hand the recipe you are applying overtax. It was also confirmed by what Mr Drasakis said earlier. On the other hand, the structural changes that you are taking under pressure and the creditors, you often adopt them reluctantly, keeping your nose. So how will you convince the markets, the investors? That is why the theory of right and left economists is disproved. After so many years of crisis, everyone would predict that Greece's economy would be escalated. And we lean at the end of the table with no hope and no prospect. That's the point. I have used very specific figures, ladies and gentlemen. And here we have to note something. Numbers and people are now saying the same thing. And in numbers the grim reality is reflected and people experience this grim reality in their everyday lives. So we have reached our conclusions. Even more Greek citizens have reached their conclusions. They saw where populism and aerialology lead. This was the only added value of the presence of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL in recent years. There is no longer the repulsive Left. We can move on - and I wish you could do so tomorrow morning - in the elections to bring about a normal European government at the place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u90	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u91	Here, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u92	I like Mr. Hatzidakis too, but not to turn to the name of sympathy. What did I say about overtax? I said that before the crisis, when the economy was up high, the governments were reducing the taxation of riches and profits. And Mr. Christodoulakis and Mr. Haloskoufis. We had then estimated the loss of tax revenue to 100 billion, only because of the divergence between the average tax level of the euro area and our own. That's what I said, Mr. Hatzidakis. And that is why I said that this lack of revenue at the time is one of the factors, along with others, for the country's bankruptcy. Tell me a country in the world that went bankrupt and has no overtaxation. A country! So we've received the problem. We manage it as fairly as we can and by using, as I said, the financial area targeted, we are trying to proceed with tax relief. That's the reality. Secondly, a spring exists when the productive tissue is not destroyed. When the productive tissue is destroyed, there is no spring and even when the recession lasts ten years. This is the drama that this country has suffered not only from the initial crisis but from the deep recession in the first and second memorandums. And now we sit down and read IMF analyses of the damage that the memorial design did at the time. Finally, Mr Hatzidakis, I hear these days wishing and praying not to defeat SYRIZA, as you said, but to break up, not to exist. You will be praying for too many years. Do you know why? Because the Greek people make the decisions. And the reason why the people will make their decisions is because they will count and what we have received and what we are doing and what a prospect we give for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u93	Mrs. Gara has the floor. I shall then give the floor to Mr Pappas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Madam President. Unambiguous and absolute condemnation of the terrorist attack on the media group of SKAI and any other move or attack that hampers the journalistic or information work and free expression. And this attack is an attack involving the entire democratic world. We must take our measures and be very careful. Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to previous colleagues, I was asked a very recent question. You describe the permanent measures which are being introduced every week as measures that are pre-election. They're bombards as you say. And I have a question. The 2000-euro allowance to every Greek citizen announced yesterday by Mr Mitsotakis is a Christmas boynama? Are we going to enter this conversation to make such comparisons? So I'm on my way. The budget debate every year, ladies and gentlemen, is characterised as the top parliamentary procedure and rightly so. Rightly since this process describes and reflects the ideological and political position of each government, and describes the productive model it designs and serves. Every time I am at this Step, I insist and ask for political arguments from all sides of the political spectrum. I have heard a large part of the speeches, and I have seen a total lack of arguments on the part of, above all, the Officerial Response and an awkwardness in the budget that has been tabled. We hear an vague catastrophe without it being proved. However, I realise that our policy is disastrous for their own projects and for their own ideological approach. Here we are talking about two different worlds. And two different worlds are presented. Ladies and gentlemen, our country in recent years has been through a ruthless economic, political, social and institutional crisis. Was it, uh, random? I do not think it was random, as the policies implemented served your beliefs and your model of governance. A productive model of neoliberal logic, the reduction of the social state, the service of large business groups and friends of interest. I would therefore expect to speak frankly about all this on the basis of the policy. You should tell us, in other words, that it was a political choice to deforestation of the social state because it acts as an impediment to extremist capitalist development. That the dismantling of public health and education was a political option to create space for private companies. That the dissolution of industrial relations and rights was your choice, political choice. The introduction of the underprivileged wage for young people, wage cuts and mass redundancies was also a political choice because your model is based on cheap labour costs and cheap labour. The rapid increase in unemployment was also a political option because it creates a competition field and reduces wages. The departure of the new scientists was an option. I do not remember, however, a measure against this mass evasion. The depreciation of public information and entertainment by closing ERT was a political choice because you support the trash and manipulated information product, undermining the cultural field of society. The non-respect of the environment was also a political option, as it is considered to be a brake on investment. That's why you promote investment, like gold mines in Thrace. Unfavourable measures, overtaxation, imprisonment of the professions, have also been political choices, because small businesses are also a brake on you in the operation of the multinationals. Increased insurance contributions, the dissolution of the insurance system, the five-day hospitals had to be imposed on you, so that they could lead the private-insurance insured, as well as many other measures, which were your own political choices. So why do you not present your real program, your policy, your values, your thoughts to the Greek people? And judge. And compare. Because, I repeat, we are talking about two different worlds. Ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand we have other values. We have other faiths. We have a different interest in the people. And we have another policy mix. That's why we make other choices. This is reflected in the current budget which we are debating. The current state of the economy is already improved compared to 2014. This is also recorded in all economic indicators. Indicators that illustrate, however, the improvement of social groups' lives, particularly those most in need. We supported public health and education. We've reduced unemployment. We've reduced poverty rates. We've created jobs. We supported professionals, farmers and young scientists. We increased funds in social welfare with housing programs, social income of solidarity, child benefit, daycare facilities and much more. We have created a friendly investment environment. We cut off the long arm of corruption. 2017 and 2018 were years of rapid improvement in the business balance. The ratio is now three to one company that is set up when a few years ago, if you remember, companies were massively shut down by thousands. The recovery of entrepreneurship is not random. It reflects our commitment to reducing bureaucracy, administrative burdens, simplifying licensing, improving the investment climate and turning the production model towards innovation and extroversion. And since they made a comment before about the Public Investment Programme, one thing I will say: For the first year after decades, a special financing programme was set up in Evros for the basic infrastructure of thirty-six projects of over EUR 26 million. We've never seen it before, at least as long as I live and understand things. As far as young people are concerned, as there is a great deal of talk about Brain Drain, I repeat: I do not remember any initiative in previous years, no action for your days to suspend the departure of new sciences. On the contrary, today a number of young scientists are staying and working in the country or returning from abroad. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. High funds were directed to research at Greek universities. New membership positions have been created. High-qualification posts are being opened to public administration and hospitals. Support programmes for new business scientists have been set up. The Digital Agriculture Programme has been created and large energy projects will be run by engineers and young scientists. Three hundred and thirty thousand new jobs have been created and the trend is growing. All of this is a sample of our own policy, our own productive model, our own plan for the development and recovery of society. A society that is going to stand firm on its feet and works, creates, produces safely and confidently. A society that will find a good man in the state rather than in the face of it. A society that enjoys the fruits of its work. And you know: all those numbers, the drawings, the percentages, they hide behind people's lives, human dignity, which you stole from previous years. So this is why the country is turning a page. The forces of regression, interlocutory, interests, poverty and exploitation have already been defeated. We see only in front of a strong Greece that claims its place on the world map, for a democratic, modern, remarkable, productive and a society that lives with dignity and with the head always high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u95	Mr Christos Pappas has the floor since the Golden Dawn. Then I will give the floor to Mr. Yakumatto and then to Mr. Pallie. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I should like to make a reference to the last fiasco of SYRIZA in Thessaloniki and the flawless failure of the Prime Minister's speech. I present and submit to the minutes a photograph of Mr. Tsipras' gathering in Thessaloniki, as she was presented to the ERT. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It seems clear - you'll get it from the Minutes too - the one counted to one audience, which was a thousand four hundred seventy-seven citizens. And if we put all three in the red bracelet that took us to other times -- they reminded us of the IPLLA militia -- we have a thousand five hundred. In other words, a thousand five hundred and fifty people that fit the bus have just thirty coaches in a city of eight hundred thousand. This alone proves that you have lost the declared to the Greek people, and we need this House to dissolve and move on to elections. It is clear, therefore, that your government, having lost all moral support to the electorate and against all these supposedly weaker social strata, those who have elected it, that is to say, reiterates the false promises today in the form and the budget. One wondered why foreign lenders, who until you were elected to authority, now love you? Anyone wondered why you love them, too? And you're getting to the indecent point of indulgence and endurance to be literally nostrils, to be their rats? To nail the country abroad because - and it is true - you traded our Macedonia with the pensions? Has anyone wondered why there has never been any real negotiation on your day, but full acceptance of the terms and conditions set by the lenders? The government, with all the memoranda it has passed, in the medium term, the cuts, the interim agreements, has shown itself determined to sell anything and to ask it to remain even an hour, even a few weeks in power. That is why this government is nationally dangerous. It is only this fact that proves that the government of the 'first time left' is brought in and behaved by creditors' appetites, just as was the case with the governments of New Democracy and PASOK. Now, after about four years of governance, in exactly the same way and with the same netting as foreign lenders, what was it that gave you, supposedly, the moral advantage over the rest of the parties that ruled? The fact that you have made the country, a country of bahalakis tourism internationally, that you have become the country, a place of destination of each gang of illegal immigrants, that you are ruling with your relatives and friends who are honest - to say this - delinquents, laundry of the Exarchates, vine-philosophists, unemployed, turned them into binoses and water buffaloes of your government? In "Tourists" with the money of the Greek people you converted them. That you tried with your willing interlocutors to perpetuate Orthodoxy through the so-called constitutional review and denounce Clergy, to dismantle what remains of history and national education? All of this is not a return that has been smuggled even late and popular by the representative of your component, Mr Mitsotakis - who had voted for it all without exception, the memorials, mosques, the laws on illegal immigration, anti-racism, the cohabitation pact - but a grid of exchanges that is conscious of the loyal and sacred traditions of our country, only for your temporary survival and so that you can come directly with your ideological prejudices, your left ideological throttles. Let me remind you, Mr. Tsipras - who are not here at the moment - that your hypocritical segregation with the image of "Austei" in Mount Athos, when you visited it as an atheist, although it may temporarily deceive the naive believers who gave you their vote, does not save your soul. It does not save, even worse for you, your government. It does not save you against the nation and history, a story that will record you as the most partisan and xenophile government from the beginning of the Greek state, including the occupying governments. All existing indicators of the Greek economy spectacularly illustrate your spectacular failure at all levels of private and public economic reality. Consumption, as a percentage of GDP, fell below 20%. The number of building permits remains in the vicinity of ten three thousand since 2014. The industrial production index goes from bad to worse, even compared to 2017. The deposits have not returned to our money recapitalised banks, which remain zombie banks. You're a zombie bank! The rate of unemployment, with the broken figures, remains the largest in the European Union, as well as the proportion of the population at risk of poverty, which is at 14%. All this information is officially published. It's on the website "interneosi", so you don't question them. I read: "A hundred businesses close every day. More than EUR 8 billion is the unpaid public debt to private individuals. More than EUR 110 billion is the private debt to the State. The decline in private savings is 5.2 billion euros. Six hundred thousand professionals even owe the power. Four hundred thousand entrepreneurs have delays in the payment of the EUPM. Five out of ten are unable to pay insurance and tax obligations, despite the arrangements - and you will see it - and despite the hundred and twenty instalments you will promise. At the same time, compared with last year, 130 billion euros were lost from the market. Sectors such as the one with the first-needed species have experienced a new drop in sales this year from 4% to 10%, and not even a new job has been opened in productive sectors of the economy, beyond, of course, the state-owned appointings I have mentioned, of these few and selected yours. The spearhead of the Memorandum Policy that you have adopted better than your predecessors is the implementation of the programme to make use of public property, which continues with the new measures. The surplus of EUR 6.9 billion, i.e. 3.62% of GDP, results from overtaxation and the cut in the public investment programme. According to the Report of the National Bank, the surplus in 2017 reached 4.2% of GDP and had a negative impact on the economic activity of 12% in 2017. This means that the surplus is undermining the growth rate, but you continue to use it as a communication surplus, as a trick, the cost of which is borne by the wage earners, the low pensioners, the owners of real estate, the threeteen families, the free professionals, the islanders, in order to give you a pre-election pocket, a single social dividend, and to give it mainly not to Greek but Greekised illegal immigrants. It is estimated that EUR 162.6 million a day by the end of the year will have to pay households, businesses, real estate owners, in order to achieve the budget target in order to get the surpluses out and to give this so-called social dividend. I am going to refer to something that many speakers have not mentioned - and badly - and that is the issue of the budget for national defence. As far as national defence is concerned, for 2019 we have a budget which in fact continues to reduce the vertically defensive expenditure imposed by creditors in recent years. Our homeland remains intact. It is a budget that actually leads to disarmament of our country, when Ankara raises the issue of the renegotiation of the Treaty of Lausanne, at a time when it perpetrates the Aegean, when there are certain fears of a hot episode in the Aegean, which will create a fait accompli. The defence budget for 2019 may be increased compared to the corresponding 2018 and 2017 budget, but it is still - for people to know this - lower than the 2016 budget, less than EUR 53,59 million. And I wonder: Until when and with what means will the Armed Forces constitute a good force of deterrence for the benefit of the patronage, when defensive expenditure is cut, the staff are falling and the salaries themselves? Only a national government, a national people's government of the Golden Dawn, has the political will to re-establish the domestic war industry, rationalise the equipment programs and maintain the existing weapons systems in an excellent operational situation. To conclude, the Golden Dawn had stressed at every opportunity that this accumulated debt is not real, as the European Union's obsession with the protection of Mr Georgios has shown. Debt is forged, so that the country can technically enter memorials so that it can be led to mortgage and ultimately to the sale of its public property and, above all, the wealth of its subsoil. In this way, the current government - in exactly the same way as the previous, New Democracy and PASOK - continues not only the disastrous work of selling the patronage, but improves it for the benefit of creditors, since it binds the country for decades, for ninety years and even English law. It is therefore clear to everyone that the way out of this vicious circle of implementation of the plans of the new order and of the lenders can only implement a national, popular government which, with popular support, will conflict with the European Union's ratification leaders, as it has recently done another Mediterranean country in the south, Italy, which certainly has a government of popular support and not a left-wing government triumph.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the High School of Ioannina Kilkis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Yakoumatos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u98	Madam President, I would like to say, first of all, here, to the Temple of Democracy, that this manly attack on SKAI is an act that we all have to condemn, but also to try and help, so that we can strike this insaneness and this mess that is being done in Greece. It is not only the 'SKAI', where democracy is being put, information, but also every citizen now lives in a regime that reminds us of being a special occupation status. So be careful, gentlemen of the government, the security of the citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to speak today because I am speaking - and I am sure of this - in the last budget of a government of unsuccessful apprentices, a government which has deceived as much as any other government, which has divided as anyone else, which has attempted to muddle its opponents as much as any other, which has attempted and attempted to eliminate in every way any party or any political opponent who stands in the plans for democracy against SYRIZA and SYRIZANEL. It disturbs you and rightly disturbs you, as it disturbs us and condemns the slogan 'democracy has sold Macedonia'. But remember, what were you yelling at in Syntagma Square with the indignant and the Bollocks? What were you yelling at at the polytechnic walkways? You said that "the junta did not end in 1973". That is what you were saying then and you did without shame, and you have the courage now to do us lessons of democratic patriotism, without having asked for an apology for those misery. Unfortunately, however, you are leaving behind your debts, unemployment, accuracy, which even more erods the income of the Greeks and the uncertainty of each Greek household. You have been dominated with a lack of credibility, but above all with a lack of respect for the citizen, for the citizen who believed you. Do you want me to remind you of your grand announcements, that you will smash the memoirs, that you are flesh from the people's flesh and other such heavy statements? But I will tell you that in order to survive you have finally decided to eat the flesh of the Greek people. I will not remind you that in 2015 you received a country that came out of the crisis at a positive rate of growth, with reasonable primary surpluses, with the repayment of late state debts, with a very strong banking system and without capital controls, a country that had been on the markets twice and had agreed to the country's exit from the memoranda. The main budgetary imbalances had been corrected. The economy was recovering. Taxes were beginning to fall. Oil was 0.78 minutes then, while it's 1,16 today. Only this example and many more, such as solidarity tax, tax reduction, VAT reduction. Insurance contributions had started to decrease and outstanding debts had been reduced to 50%. In other words, then there were important conditions not just for a mild growth, but for a development explosion. And instead of taking advantage of all this, you have reached the edge of the cliff. You charged the country in the name of the proud negotiation with over 100 billion. You proceeded with over seventeen pension cuts and twenty-nine tax increases. Your only feat is that you have managed to create a country of depression and national misery. The budget that the government brings to the vote reveals the collapse of the illusions and delusion you have been cultivating and reveals your inability to see reality. It is not your fault, however, for the citizens to take on the hardships of your own mistakes, which are many and incomprehensible. What's the result? We are constantly plundering into a low-wage economy. What's the reality? Remunerations of EUR 400 and 300 with flexible working relationships, with poor workers who cannot be supported. Greece has lost potential wealth of 31 billion over the last four years, forming the only development surprise worldwide. Competitiveness is falling, investment is falling, wages fall, flexible forms of employment dominate, long-term unemployment prevails. And here's the big drama: Fifty years he can't find a job and he's doomed not to get a pension. Young people are also resurrected along with statements that do not substantially return to the banking system. The credit contract continues, the government's outstanding debts have not been cleared, when four million Greeks have been seeing seizures in bank accounts in the last four years. Leave how many houses they get in auctions. It's what you said: "No house in the hands of a banker" and now we've arrived since January 1, 2019, twenty-two thousand houses are ready to go out to the hammer. The liquidity of public bodies is deteriorating, the state is growing. That's enough, though. That's enough! Citizens are not misled, they have memory and judgment. They will never forgive your oligories, your myths and the tales of Halima. It is time for the truth, the time for judgment and as much as you try to keep in office, the elections are coming and then the people will give you a dirty answer. Ladies and gentlemen, we must leave - and we leave - behind with your government's leave of the tax raid that has been brought down by households and businesses. It's true that magic wands don't exist. For us in New Democracy, our main pillar of strategy is the implementation of a new economic policy, a development shock, so that we can get out of the stagnation we are today. The Prime Minister walks around like a besieged man. The uncertainty, however, cannot go on any longer. So as soon as possible to get to a verdict, to run elections to get the place out of you. I am voting against the last budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and I hope - and I certainly hope - that the next Prime Minister will be Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy as a government. So if you dare, make an election. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Pallis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Madam President. I shall refer to Mr Yakumato, because the previous speaker has unfortunately spoken in an empty Chamber, there is no need for dialogue here. I will just say to him - he is now gone - that this is the SYRIZA government budget, it will be implemented by the SYRIZA Government and after the elections. Elections will take place in 2019, because we have a democracy and at the election site they are normally held, according to what is planned, so don't worry. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 we received an economy in conditions of war. As much as the opposition is trying to convince the citizens that the memorandum that it has agreed and brought about by the current government was unnecessarily flawed. In the autumn of 2014, it had already demonstrated that the programme would not end by the end of the year. After five years and two Memorandums the PASOK and New Democracy governments had not implemented an important part of the necessary reforms. On the other hand, they had chosen to put all the burden on the imposition of horizontal and substantiated taxes and on the reduction of public expenditure. None of the previous Memorandums have been successfully completed and it is not at all certain that today, if you were government, you would have led the country out of memoranda. I'd say it might have been your choice for the country's long stay in the memoirs. The final blow was given by the Samara - Venizelos government, when in the view of a third memorandum, any implementation of the program frozen, leading the economy to suffocation. The Samara - Venizelou government has deliberately chosen to proceed to elections without a new deal with the lenders in order to drugize the path of the next government. You were hoping for a left-hand parentheses in which you would charge all the sins of the past, but the parentheses are, for the first time, a government of four years. Fortunately, you have been disproved, ladies and gentlemen. The SYRIZA Government has negotiated and compromised - that is true - but it has chosen to keep the country in its European course, no doubt at a cost, but with a view to many benefits. The negotiation showed our partners that reforms could not be achieved by perpetuating the recession. The dreadful material cycle, the so-called death spiral, with the austerity to succeed in the recession, the new deficits to bring new austerity and worsen the recession, described the policy of most European countries. In its attitude, therefore, the SYRIZA Government has demonstrated that there is an alternative, contributing to a change in the one-sided response to the crisis throughout Europe. Over the last few years the bets given - and I would say that many of these have been won - have been, on the one hand, financial credibility and, on the other hand, fair allocation of resources and support for the weak. Yes, the weak in our society are the people who, without a plan, emigrated to our country decades ago, when Mr Samaras, incomprehensibly then, made a call to our neighbours from the north. They are the Roma, who are Greek citizens and some want to see them as foreigners. They're all those people who have need. You have to tell us your opinion. The government has therefore provided the necessary time to move forward with the necessary reforms, which have been postponed for decades because of the dependencies of traditional political forces. Financial stability and stable surpluses also provided the necessary space for the establishment of a social state, better organized and more substantial. That is what I would say, therefore, was the profit of the third unavoidable memorandum. All the budgets over the last three years have redefined the state's priorities based on the needs of its least privileged members - yes, it is our choice - and the need to maintain social cohesion, a cohesion that has collapsed at the expense of the economic difficulties and the deterioration of the quality of life of many of our fellow citizens. The 2019 budget follows the same strategic choice. It is worth gaining financial space, with social benefits for the benefit of weak social groups that count most of the wounds. We recognise, of course, that the road is still long for socio-economic rehabilitation. Nevertheless, I believe that this road opened by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL is the right path. That is why I support the political proposal of the SYRIZA Government. I support the EUR 910 million that has been set aside for social cohesion as a whole. I support the 177 million for the reduction of insurance contributions from farmers and free traders, the 260 million allocated for the reduction of the ENPI, the 400 million for the grant of rent, especially for young people. I support the three thousand jobs for the permanentisation of the 'Help at Home' institution, which you have been dragging them for so many years, entangled by the people in need of his services 'Help at Home' and by the workers themselves. I support the 22 million for the recruitment of the four and a half thousand special education teachers, a need for a modern democratic society. I also supported the non-cutting of pensions for six hundred and twenty thousand of our fellow citizens and the yielding of a social dividend of 710 million to million beneficiaries. I am voting in favour of a fairer distribution of resources to local government, on the basis of criteria such as mountainousity, islandity, the level of unemployment and poverty in each region. I will tell you, for example, that the northern Aegean has never been allocated such an amount for so many and such interventions, for the sports facilities that dozens are in the northern Aegean, for infrastructure projects, for the needs of disasters which have not occurred in your years, for dozens of school units that are being upgraded. I am voting in favour of the fact that the design of public works is based on research and quality of life indicators. I am voting in favour of supporting islands, with all the measures envisaged. No one is now condemned to minorityity because it happened to be born and living on an island. Ladies and gentlemen, where the increase in tax revenues is a historical record of taxes, we see successful reforms in combating tax evasion and increasing economic activity, in collecting VAT, in voluntary disclosures of undeclared income, which alone brought to the public 800 million, in targeted controls. Where opposition is seeing investment poverty, we see the largest Public Investment Programme in recent years. Ask the district managers and mayors how the Public Investment Programs have been exploited at this time and how many projects have been done in your local area. They're not ours. They're mostly yours. So, to close, we must decide which bank of the river we are going to stand in a risky Europe that is dragged into an explosive mixture of neoliberalism and extreme right you have embraced. So today I am in favour of this budget which the Government of this government is bringing forward - and the next SYRIZA government will implement by the end - for the economic development we call 'yes', but on terms and limits to the benefit of all. Thank you very much. I hope you speak to our fellow citizens with less courage and more appreciation and not in a disgraceful way, because people experience them and understand them. And don't rush. It will take many years to see your own government again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u101	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Kumucako for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the last phase of the country's governance by the SYRIZA - ANEL. The time that goes away brings together the end of this governance. It does not mean leaving the budget which we are debating today, its last budget. It is clear what it confirms and what this budget represents. It is summed up in only four words: overtaxation, surpluses, underdevelopment, underinvestment. And these four words also give the outline of SYRIZA's political philosophy and economic recipe. It's the recipe that went back to the economy. Which cost the Greeks 100 billion. Who still maintains the capital control. Who has removed all power from the economy. This is confirmed by twenty-nine new taxes that you have imposed, 9.5 billion austerity measures, the impoverishment of the Greeks, since one in two owes tax and most owes up to 500 euros. This is confirmed by the time-limited public debts, which are more than the country's Gross Domestic Product, the competitiveness of the economy that is constantly retreating, the economic freedom that is shrinking, the institutions of governance that are downgrading, the credit shrinking that continues, the bank shares that have been redeemed, the liquidity and viability of important players, such as PPC, which are deteriorating. Finally, the state that is growing, without planning for citizens, but with a dark plan for the party. This is the grim reality! But that doesn't bother you. You have been celebrating for the last time because your vision is a dependent entrepreneurship and dependent citizens. I would like to ask you, however, why, while you triumph, do you not hear a single bracelet from any part of society? Why didn't anyone say "bravo, did you do it?" Only the appointed ‘later’ or those who expect to be appointed also in silence, silently and carefully. You are not listening and you have not heard any good of the young people in this country because you have deprived them of their prospect. You will not get credit from the unemployed because you deprive them of the vision of full-time and decent paid work. You won't hear a good reason from the free professionals because of the Katorugalos law nipple. And those who left the country don't even listen to you. Because they just know well that as long as you rule they're not going to come back. But this is the case when one chooses to invest in the logic and policy of subsidised dependence. This is the result of creating as the only vision for the average Greek citizen, for the Greek society integration into the public and the allowance from power. As long as you triumph the economy declines and growth goes away. And who do you expect to congratulate you for, then? You have led an entire society, and that is the most poisonous of all, in fatalism and frustration. They think nothing changes anymore. But come on, it'll change very soon. Allow me here to make a personal and broader comment. I would be the first, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA to congratulate that government, in whichever government would really get the country out of the crisis. In a government that would give the country, throughout the country and the citizens, those supplies to move on together, to develop genuinely. But you're not that government. Mr. Chakalotos is here. His words repeat them unregulatedly over and over again. It's tragic. "We," he says, "a government with a class division". I answer: So you are a government of some, you are not the government of all Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u103	And you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u104	So you are a government that is consciously investing in dogmatism and eventually in division. That's who you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u105	And you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u106	Listen, Minister, calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u107	I'm listening calmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u108	Your word is that, your words are those. You're a government with a class division. You are not the government of all Greeks. And the country is faced with the challenges it faces, internal and external, it needs the only factor of national power that can take it out against. And this is the national unity, the unity of the nation. You have no sensitivity to that. You're conscious of it. You constantly create new fields of confrontation, split dilemmas, made, but there with perseverance. Look, the infamous "or we end or end them" includes, encloses and summarizes your political philosophy. Under it you apply every act of yours, every piece of yours, every political declaration of yours. But, and because I have also heard a colleague earlier talking about extremes and extremes, it is this biasing reason, it is this divisive policy that raises extremes and extremes. The violent reason is the will of the violent act. Like yesterday's SKAI. No terrorism will terrorize democracy. No terrorism will terrorize free expression. No terrorism will intimidate pluralism. But the verbal conviction is not enough. It's a half reaction. The verbal condemnation makes sense when the democratic state transforms it into action. Find, then, and arrest those seeking to terrorise democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure - and I am closing down, Madam President, in less than a minute - that we are now witnessing the last act of the SYRIZA drama - ANEL. No matter how impressive a finish you prepare, don't forget something: It's final, it's over. The curtain will fall, the few left-wing viewers will go and the lights will go out, thank God. It is a matter of little time for the Greek society, the Greek citizens to regain their luck and to stop this blind course with Greece sculptors in national, economic, institutional, internal security. Time is short, curtain falls, viewers go, lights fade. I am not voting for this budget, the last of your administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u109	The speaker of SYRIZA, Mrs Karasarlidou, has the floor. Mr Baltas, the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres and Mr Georgiadis will then speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, the 2019 budget is a budget after eight years of reasonable budgetary expansion. It includes positive measures exceeding EUR 900 million. The political forces with positions of extreme liberalism, which undeniably bear responsibility for the bankruptcy of our country, what are they saying today? I have been unwittingly and unwittingly - because colleagues should be ashamed of the country's bankruptcy - they say they want to crush not only SYRIZA, but also his ideas. What ideas? The ideas of social justice and the preparation of this place. Every Greek citizen must remember that by going to the elections. So these powers have so far been engaged in catastrophic scenarios, scenarios that have been blocked in their entirety, because we have succeeded - after eight years of difficult fiscal policy that forced us to bring the country to a recovery orbit. Today all fundamental indicators show a steady improvement and in 2018 it closes at growth rates. Colleagues, the end of the memoranda was not a natural and expected development. It came ruling over the sacrifices of the Greek people, from their bravery, from his temper, his patience, his perseverance and the confidence of the Greek people to us. Today's budget vote justifies us, vindicates our Greek people and our government. And the citizens of the country rightly expect relief and support and recovery measures. The opposition has one single argument, namely that the government is engaged in a policy of impulsement. But, ladies and gentlemen, do not underestimate the intelligence of the Greeks anymore. In a favoured rule of law, it is the state's obligation to provide and it is not at all obliged to defend these benefits. You are turning the truth of a fair policy that respects and appreciates citizens because all you are interested in is coming back to power, taking the power again to crush the rule of law, to crush the workers, to crush every fair development plan, and I fear - if you had the margin - to lead home to a new bankruptcy. No matter how difficult it is for you, no matter how difficult it is for us to provide citizens with a vision and a plan for the future. We are the ones who restored collective bargaining, increased the minimum wage, abolished the subordinate, and at the same time create a credible rule of law. We are the ones who changed the image of the National Health System that has collapsed over your days. From 2015 to 2018, 1.420 million was granted for social dividends when not one euro was provided from 2010 to 2015. We are implementing ten actions to combat child poverty and child protection. One hundred and fifty - three thousand students have school meals. Nine hundred thousand families get a child’s allowance and a hundred and twenty - seven thousand children are free at nursery stations. We have reduced the insurance contributions to farmers, to free professionals and the self-employed, and we have finally and irrevocably managed to abolish the pension cut. Do you know what the warning of our development policy is from that of yours, extreme liberalism? We are all concerned with each citizen, with each social group and with their real support. We can incorporate the social state in terms of economy and strengthen it because it works in return. For example, the money given to the citizens for the social dividend will, even to the extent, strengthen the Greek market and consumption. The strengthening of the necessary human resources, the qualitative upgrading and digital transformation of the Public Administration offers and can offer a change in the way in which it is organised and operated, the upgrading of the services, and hence the saving of time and money for both public administration and citizens. It was the Government of the New Democracy that brought about the status of the availability and redundancies of civil servants, which is its current account. We overthrowded the injustices of the New Democracy government. We have put an end to the status of the availability and redundancies of civil servants. We have established the National Staff Register. We have finally introduced the fragmented transparent and simplified mobility of civil servants. In 2019, therefore, and while we have now come out of the memorandum and have won the application of the recruitment rule to one by one, but also through the financial area that is being created, the government is directly taking up four and a half thousand recruits of permanent teachers in special education, totalling 15 000 permanent teachers, in total, in 2019-2021. We proceed to three thousand two hundred and fifty-seven recruits of permanent staff in the municipalities for the establishment and improvement of the "Help at Home" programme. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Madam President, to finish. We proceed to targeted recruitment in the Social Welfare Centres, as well as to the recruitment of specialist scientists, such as engineers, veterinarians and rural people to meet increased needs of local government bodies in both regions and municipalities. Also, with a pilot, the "Help at Home" programme proceeds to rationalise the workplace in the public sector by recruiting permanent staff with respect, however, to the constitutional provisions and always through the procedures of the ADP, with recognition of the pre-services of today's workers. The argument that there is a state enlargement is completely false and wrong. It is clear that the exact opposite is the case. Since 2009 there has been a large reduction in the number of both regular and contracted workers. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that there has been a regulation that makes it potentially viable in the short and medium term. We are implementing and are ready to implement the fair development plan. The vote on this budget, the 2019 budget, proves a great deal that the country is now relying on its own powers and can with a plan look optimisticly in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u111	Mr Baltas has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, institutionally, the time to vote for a budget is at the top of an annual session of Parliament. Because the budget does not, of course, capture only figures, it reflects a country's overall, social and political course, and it opens a path from there on. And not just for the time that the budget itself includes. In this sense, therefore, this budget has something new - my fellow Members have already said so, and I repeat it - it is the first budget after the memoranda and opens up a new path for the country slowly and cowardly. Because the possibilities do not allow for more. But it slowly and tires in a direction that is expansive, presupposes development processes, for the benefit of society and, in particular, of the layers that have been most affected by the crisis. I would say that the moment of such a budget also opens up a wider path. In 2021 we celebrate - we will celebrate regardless of who will then be in the government - two hundred years from the Greek Revolution. That means that our responsibilities over this three-year period, all of us, are great. Because in 2021 we will somehow apologise for what we did as a society for two hundred years. All the good things we have achieved, all those that we have failed, all the tensions and crises that did not lead to things going where they should go. And from there on, we must show that we are now a normal country within a democratic Europe with its institutions - which were also started so strongly - to go in the next two hundred years. In such a context, we are not all obviously the same. There are real differences that can be debated democratically within the parliamentary framework. What's the main difference? It has been said against coronary: neoliberalism on the one hand, a concept of society based on society on the other. Some say from time to time that they do not understand what neoliberalism is going to say. Explain it very simply. Neoliberalism and philosophical and historical is based on the principle that the individual is the centre of study of things, the centre of crisis of developments, and so on. It was said in summary: 'There is no society but humanity'. On the other hand, and without being compulsory Marxist, it starts from Aristotle, if you like, the view that man is "an animal politician", meaning an animal in a city, an animal social. With a social conscience, it is also a social conscience. As the movement of societies is the controversy, if you wish, some called it a class struggle, and once Mr Laskaris abolished it, by decree, where slaves fight with the free, the rich with the poor, the pedophiles with the rulers, the slaves with the feudals, the patrons with the proletarians. That's where we start. Different starting points. If the context is democratic, these disputes of principle, which have ending practices and policies very specific, can be put within society, analysed in all their contexts and their ends, so that society decides who and under what conditions it will be shown every four years in the institutions that we have to govern. And here comes the second question. On what terms today we can have this debate. I would now say to the side of the Officerate: the way in which the political disagreement is handled is understandable, because it actually has no argument. And I'm just explaining. We have had to vote for a memorandum against our deeper beliefs and say that we will apply it faithfully because the country's dignity must be recovered despite the cost it will have in our society. At the same time, we will do everything in our power to ensure that the cost of this memorandum that we apply is the least possible for this society. That's what we tried to do to this day. On this basis, however, the memorandum that we were supposed to have brought to the vote was passed by the New Democracy, the PASOK and the Potami. By apparently implying that he is also voting for his laws and obviously implying that if during the famous negotiations we were able to win more than the ones that the Memorandum extended, they would agree. Another argument from SYRIZA's economic and social programme is not the opposition. That is to say, a argument that stands and maintains its history infinitely. Secondly, on the other big issue, the national ones, again SYRIZA continued to take a previous course in practice and acted on the national line for the Macedonian one. The national line wasn't fixed by SYRIZA, he just accepted it at some active time. This was mainly the result of the policy of the father and sister of the Head of New Democracy. In this sense, the New Democracy should say this: if I wanted to discuss seriously politically, we would like to thank SYRIZA, but we have shaped this line and designed it. So we're glad SYRIZA comes to what we said. But the New Democracy doesn't. He can't stand there either. Instead, he has launched the well-known false and so on. and has now reached the point, the last abstention of Mr. Mitsotakis recently at the New Democracy conference, "We have to end what SYRIZA thinks". That's absolutely creepy. It is above all possible for democratic debate and leads to the extremes, at the bottom of the barrel called fascism and Nazism. That's where I don't have much to say. A lot has already been said and time is running out. But I'd say to Mr. Mitsotakis this time. Let's see, if he hasn't seen or seen it for the first time - I imagine that's the case - the work of Kubrick "Spartacus". On the Roman Empire, the uprising of the Spartacus, which naturally led to his crucifixion, brought this on the emperor’s side. He forbidden the name of Spartacus to be heard forever against death. And, oh of the miracle, the name of Spartacus not only didn't stop pronounced, but it's a name that still inspires all who fight for democracy and justice. Let us see this project again or for the first time, and we are discussing again what it will say to "fine with what SYRIZA believes".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u113	Mr Georgiadis now has the floor from New Democracy and Mrs Papapeigas will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the country's budget and we are hearing various arguments. And it is important to exchange the arguments and to clarify some of them. Previously, in the speech of the Prime Minister with the President of Officerial Representation, Greece was the usual case in Greece as to how much damage was done to the Greek economy in the first half of 2015. And it makes me a terrible impression - and I am glad that Mr Tsakalotos is here - why Mr Tsipras is attacking the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis when he refers to the damage of 100 billion and Mr Tsakalotos himself is not going to resolve this dispute with Mr Regling. You, Minister, don't you know Mr. Reggling? Haven't you made a deal with Mr. Regling to settle the Greek debt? You're not talking to the ESS? So you yourself, Mr. Chakalotos, why don't you go to Reggling, say, "Dear Mr. Reggling, why are you charging us 100 billion dollars and lying?" "And here's the right argument of Mr. Tsipras who went to add the damage to the Greek economy, to the public debt," which is an argument of the First Elementary, because in the Second Degree you have learned that it is wrong. So, Minister, instead of making the knots in the Greek Parliament, go there to your bosses in Europe, tell them how many billions of losses you have done, because Mr Regling said you have done 100 billion losses. Neither Mr. Mitsotakis nor Mr. Stournaras nor anyone else. I would remind you - and this is even more important, ladies and gentlemen - that Mr Reggling counts the Greek economy until the last euro. Because he's our main lender. So it remains to him to have the most accurate calculation, because on the basis of this calculation the loans to the Hellenic Republic are determined. So obviously his calculation has the greatest credibility and obviously there you do not dare to raise such matters. So the 100 billion damage was done in the head. Secondly, I am listening all the time to hear that the extremely high primary surpluses agreed by the Samara Government were impossible to achieve, at 4.5%. Some ten Members of SYRIZA have said that so far, as far as I have been able to follow, have said so far to justify the damage I mentioned earlier. Excuse me. You, and last year and this year, as the matter goes, have made more than 4.5% primary surpluses. A lot more! You have barely proved in practice that 4.5% of the primary surplus was ultimately not impossible for the Greek economy and you have given our lenders, unfortunately, a very opposing argument to us. Because while we as the New Democracy and the Governor of the Bank of Greece are also supposed to tell our European partners that our commitment to primary surplus of 3.5% is an excessive commitment, we are all asking that the agreement be changed and that the 2% target be transferred, at the same time as we say this, you come and say'rear primary surplus of 6%, 5.5%, 7%'. But, of course, when the lenders see that you manage to do 5.5%, 6%, 7% primary surplus, why do 3.5% to 2%? So what is your political choice now? It is to “strangle” the economy to achieve high primary surpluses and get a small fraction of them and return it to the economy through the benefits. This is the main argument for foreign lenders because they must not reduce the primary surplus target. And there is the crime you've committed in the economy. Because if you had not achieved these high objectives of the surplus, then the growth rate of the country would have been much higher. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, what the SYRIZA Members, Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Tsipras celebrate about, in all speeches and all fora, to prove how well they have done in the management of our finances, namely, that they achieve extremely high primary surpluses, is not a cause for SYRIZA's triumph and signifying success, but is proof of the economic failure. Because, with these great primary surpluses, which take money away from the real economy, you have fallen out into the main economic objective, which is economic development, and so every year, the only goal you are constantly falling out is the level of increase in the Gross National Product. Why? Why, so that you can do what you are doing with this budget, that is, Venezuela of the form of Maduro, share benefits after you have ‘strangled’ the whole economy, what are you doing? You're reducing the rate of growth, you're offering great arguments to foreign lenders, they're happy to get their money. I still remind you, Minister, that you were here, a few meters beyond Syntagma Square, with a banner behind "We don't owe, pay" and you put them with foreign lenders. And you came as Minister and I hear Mr. Siomple saying that no other Minister was as cooperative as Mr. Tsakalotos and SYRIZA. As far as the memorandum is concerned, I imagine you were not there on the table across the street, that you wanted to become Minister, to get the praises of Shoeble for how good and cooperative you are with the memorandum, but you did that too. Warm congratulations! So you're close, all of your economic policy is wrong. Previously, with Mr Kumucako, this has become a point of order, and I say it about those colleagues who were not in the Chamber. He accused you of class policy, and you said: do you not have a class policy? Firstly, with regard to the classics of your policy, Mr Juliarakis' confession is known in this House, in committee, when he revealed that yes, you have made a class choice. As regards your question now, the answer is 'no', we do not have a class policy. We are simply aware of something very fundamental. What's that? And I'm coming to Mr. Balta, to close. Listen, Mr Balta, I am very interested in almost every speech of yours - I got your book and I read it with interest I have to tell you about the names of communism - that you want in almost every speech of yours to present yourself as a communist. So listen, it's communists! They're genuine communists, normal communists. They defend it, they call it, they propose another economic system. I happen to disagree with that completely, but they are Communists in the Chamber. A communist who believes in the euro or in the European Union or in the capitalist economy, Mr Balta, is not. Either you choose to go from here or, otherwise, to say it clearly and not to waste time between us - you are a normal capitalist, because that is the European Union, it is capitalist. Take note, however, of what the problem is for the Minister to understand and for me to finish. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] While you are in a capitalist European Union that operates on free market terms, because you have these adolescent dreams of your ideas and you want to fantasize, like Mr Baltas, that he is a communist, you go to apply your communist childhood dreams to a capitalist system. This, of course, creates what Greece lives today, this misery, this poverty, this inability to move forward. Pick, finally! Or you will be communists, Mr Baltas, and you will go to central planning of the economy, to state-controlled means of production, to subordinate labour relations - this is the model that I say is not working, they say it works - or you will go to capitalism which means, Minister, just to say it, low taxes, low insurance contributions, incentives for investment, economic competitiveness. The mixer doesn't work. It's catastrophic. He convicts the country in the gutter. Of course, after I am voting against the budget, I too should like to state my prediction, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people are sovereign, this will be the last budget for SYRIZA! Of course, there is an unambiguous condemnation of the current terrorist attack on SKAI TV and the newspaper "KATHMERINI". This terrorist attack seems to be quite serious, much more serious than we've seen lately, and I hope the police quickly proceed to arrest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, could I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u117	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u118	I agree with the last thing Mr Georgiadis said about 'SCAI'. It was a very serious blow. I will not comment on all the speech, but because he said that he needs an exchange of views, I think you have not set our criticism of 4.5%. With regard to the 4.5% primary surplus, it is not that we triumph that we did it 3.5%. I agree with you that both 4.5% and 3.5% are very large. But what was the result of 4.5%? In this way and at the same time as the forecasts for very high growth, these two together made the debt viable and, therefore, you did not need to go and ask for a debt reduction. This is our big difference. We knew that 4.5% is 'too much', but also 3.5% - to accept this - but what you said about growth rates was so far beyond reality, which is what helped the Germans, since you told me about Shoeble, because they said: 'Now, with 4.5% growth and 4.5% primary surpluses, we don't need to get anything about the debt'. That is the argument and not the simplest argument you have used. To make an exchange of views, but only on the main issues on this question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u119	Mrs. Pepariga has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u120	In recent times, almost every day, either in the positions of party officials or in the journalistic panels, the splitting polarization within the House, a climate of disgrace, etc., is lamented. In fact, I have heard a number of people today who have spoken about the climate of acid polarization within the House and outside the House. Others throw it in New Democracy, others in SYRIZA, both of them. This climate of polarisation led to the appalling and convicted bombing of the "SKAI". In fact, this is an invitation: if possible every day, all parties, every politician, every social factor - if you like - to make the statement: 'We condemn violence wherever it comes'. The great majority - certainly not all - who support this strawberry are liars and hypocrites, because at the same time they recognise state violence and repression, employers' violence for which they do not have any debate, imperialist violence for the oil pipelines, wherever they pass - will pass through here, will pass through war operations or military exercises as preparation for military operations. All of this is regarded as legitimate violence, but to the people, in the people's movement, they do not recognise the right to defend their interests, as each time and at every stage by means, in the way, in the forms it chooses. In that sense we say it's hypocrisy. Of course, the interests of the people in no way can serve them. The opposite happens. Various groups may use some "veilers" antiquator or various groups set up provocachis to expose the popular movement and open the way for greater violence. Because, in fact, Mr Georgiadis said something, I wanted to make a reference. Look, the story has shown that, before all, violence turned against the labour movement and the role of the JRC in it, not only when the movement was rising, but this violence was used and when the movement had also made temporary retreat. Those who are against violence, the main aim of which is that movement - such a movement has not been developed today - is not equivalent to the needs - which the system can question, not the SYRIZA Government or the Government of New Democracy. Because, in fact, many times we have spoken of falsely confronted, we call it false, not because there are no individual differences, but because these individual differences are going to cover up the general common line of navigation. Can I tell you something? By 2015 - to not go to 2012, let it - practically it was confirmed the common route line of New Democracy and PASOK and it is no coincidence that at the critical time that there seemed to be a government instability - not in general stages of the system - they made a government with Karazafiris once, with Kuveli the other day, which if anyone said so a few years ago, they would call him "you are a dogmatic communist" or "you don't know what you're saying". Since 2015 - and especially after the theatre of the first semester, the resistance - to this day, as it has now been confirmed that all the debate and all the intercourse is on the common line of cruising, the controversy could only take extreme acidity. And it's not the first time. And since 1975, we've had phases. Even wood has fallen into the House. We've seen scenes of infinitely good in this House, not to say before 1967. You have therefore chosen a number of topics, which you are presenting - in particular the New Democracy and SYRIZA and the other parties - as red lines, in order to cover and cover the common line of navigation and to put the people of referee between you, whether for stay or for rotation. I'm going to set an example. The New Democracy says: "The Prespes were made, because SYRIZA agreed and gave the Prespes to take the pension reduction." We don't blame SYRIZA for that, but there's something much more serious. SYRIZA was the most good child of the European Union, NATO, of the United States strategy in America. It's an example. An example is not always the one who by generation defended a system. I will not say the word servant, because it often means otherwise, defending a system and a strategy. The best example is the former, the dissent, the one who left - let's say - a meteorologist. That's the best example. Therefore, it did not have to sign the Embassy Agreement to give the temporary withdrawal of no reduction in pensions. After all, as the issue has been said, it does not throw out the budget and the budget shows it. Although pensions will not be reduced, the total pensions will be reduced. There's Mr. Chakalotos and others who count. The ages and how long are we gonna live? Two hundred years? It can't be done! It'll reduce the population, that's the way it is. You figured it out. You are more realistic than the New Democracy. With regard to Article 16, the New Democracy has lifted up again, as if it did not understand that at the moment higher education institutions in Greece are operating on private criteria and with principles of complete, complete adaptation to the needs of the market. Does New Democracy not understand? No, it makes it its flag and its flag SYRIZA does not create private universities, when in Greece the 2/3 of schools that exist after the high school or vocational schools - and there are even higher university departments - are private. The same work that private universities do can be done by state universities. Another topic - the whole thing! - is that one is close to entering each other's bedroom, to find scandals in the friendly environment, in the social environment. We are not concerned with this, not because there cannot be any particular problems, but we do not have to do this. The fact that one who left there has gone to be a MP in the other party is true. Look at you, especially after 2015 -- we knew and before 2015 what the SYRIZA line was - which seemed to be who SYRIZA, going from one party to another is a cigarette street. And if you can be a minister or a congressman, it's half a cigarette street. It's neither apostasy nor a takeover nor anything. We don't go into reasoning who got what he didn't take because he went. It's objective that you don't change a camp. Let's say another very, very characteristic one. In the case of benefits or computation, this is neither an inducement nor an inducement. I have heard Mr Mitsotakis say that he will also give the EUR 2 000 lotteries and the rest. No benefits or compulsions! And I ask you: is there any government, from the most extreme - let us say it - anti-popular, authoritarian and so on - that has not done any benefits? Is there a government in the history of the Greek state or - let's go more recently - since 1975, which did not make any employee benefits? But there is no government! A government can't stand! And there are benefits and benefits. There are benefits made under the pressure of class struggle, there are benefits made to integrate and manipulate consciences, never universal, by sector, by sector with differences, so that there is also the separation of 'high wages, wages and lower wages' and there are benefits - to use this term - which raise the productivity of work, increase the degree of exploitation and increase the wage gap. When the universities opened up and entered children and the working class and middle classes and farmland, was that a provision? But it was a need for the system! When manual work is reduced and the more complex - let's call it - skilled work, workers must be more educated. So, what are you talking about? And I'll say it clearly: He caused me - what can I say? - Literally disgusting the Prime Minister's position at the political committee meeting - I do not know what you say - of SYRIZA, who said the following thing: "The New Democracy and the PASOK have become the workers missing 1 euro from the pocket. We give them 20 euros." I do not know how the Prime Minister says that and I do not care about his personal experiences, because politics is not carved either by my own personal experiences and adventures or by Mr Tsipras' personal experiences. To the one who is missing 1 euro, there is not one euro in the pocket, there is a lot missing, there are 100 euros missing, 200 euros, 300 euros, 500 euros. And let me remind you of the last: An election video released by SYRIZA in 2015 and in this sense SYRIZA is very consistent, it did. It's not right that it was inconsistent. It shows Mr. Tsipras who meets an old man in the street and says the old man: "Alexis, if you do one of ten, I will support you!" That's it! That's what people should have noticed. We won't make this video as a JRC. If one were to say "if one of these ten things you say, keep one," it was impossible to make videos because it would be insulting. We are struggling - we are not a government - to respond to all the ten that we say. If the circumstances allow you to do nine and a half, do at least nine and a half. So, move on the same door and - to finish - I didn't see you quarreling. Cyprus is going to partition. No conversation about it! Greece has become a huge military base. The costs we do for NATO are enormous, disproportionate globally. Such fights can't be. What fights are there? They're about Article 16, about the same Mitsotakis best friend, SYRIZA's own best friend. Easy! These and only differences prove that in a few years the people can see other things. Whatever he thought he would not see until 2012 and by 2015 he could see it from 2020, 2021, or even from the 2019 elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, until Mr. Megloumoustakas comes to Stepma, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House is organised, thirty students and students and three educational sessions from the High School and lyric classes of Charitanis Larissa. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to resort to a reduction in speaking time, it is essential to ensure that the time is respected without delay. We are starting with Mr. Megalustakas, the year's implementation. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President, and I hope to keep my time. First of all, before I begin my speech, I would like to express my anger at what happened last night to Skai and Kathimerini. And I want to say that we as the Central Association are here to do everything in our power to avoid such murderous attacks. For luck, we probably didn't mourn victims. And in order for everyone to contribute to this, they must stop parties targeting journalists with an embargo - one and the other great - and, of course, journalists must stop serving political groups. And that's how I close this. I want to start my speech with something Mr Baltas said. He said the budget reflects a country's course. And that was very right. So what we should have heard today - and in the past few days, throughout the debate - should not be 'taxes from here, taxes from there'. "Who brought most?" They say the PASOKs. You're the ones who are defending that you haven't brought so many. And then there's a little kitten in which we all understand - and you and the citizens - that the taxes you brought were because of bad planning, and that's why you get them back. The previous would have done the same, if it were government today. So don't fight in here about who brought taxes and what reductions and who brings them back and who doesn't. You should be struggling about how to get our country on the right track. Because he hasn't come yet, even though he's been out for a hundred days and a few days, as you say, from the memorials. You have called him a new, transitional, memorandum, a left budget for this budget. However, I see him as a budget of fictitious social importance. You have the flag of 'a social state', 'the state that cares about citizens'. That's not true. Being concerned about citizens is not evidenced by an allowance or by a provision that is unstable and is not intended for the common good. And why am I saying that? In order to be able to share the surpluses, to have surpluses first of all, we must aim at development. We are not aiming at growth, when the surplus is well above the rate of growth. It can't be done. As much as we cut off, which we can no longer cut off from the people, we will not achieve growth. We therefore need to take another package. What is most sad about us is the fact that there is no substantial reduction in the debt. Debt is still unsustainable and our economy does not walk in the right tracks. We share or rather better, share and promise that the next ones will share with borrowers. It was this policy that led us where we are today. This is the policy that has led to the ten-year crisis and we do not know how long it will last. That's how you put us in the memorials and we're going some way to be in them. What each government should do is to exploit the productive structures of this country as a whole. And I'll get some examples. We must invest in tourism. Tourism has increased and revenue from tourism. However, this was not because one day we improved everything, but you need to see what has happened in Turkey, Egypt, Tunisia, Morocco, the neighbouring countries, of which we have taken very much from their own pie in tourism, because of the crisis that all these countries face. We don't really care about small accommodations. You brought back a few days ago for alternative tourism a bill that was passed. It's late to bring it now. You've been close for four years to the government of the country. We must develop even the smallest production web in tourism, as we should support farmers. I do not understand how shipowners can avoid paying taxes on oil and our farmers paying. This is hard to digest, especially from a left-wing government. You should also have acted immediately, so that you would inform the farmers of some tools they have, such as the COMPAs and the cooperative groups. If we go to my village, to the cafeteria, and we talk about COMEP and a cooperative group, farmers will think we're talking about aliens. Shouldn't you organise a campaign for their information to take advantage of the weapons you have brought in this time in Parliament? They'll hear COMES, and they'll think they're something like NGOs. Let's get the citizens of this country out of the dark. That's how growth will come. We had a meeting a few days ago on fish farming in the Committee on Research and Technology. Thirty-seven years now the aquaculture sector is struggling to build serious structures within the country and fortunately it has done so. But he has done it without the help of the state. There are twenty-five presidential decrees coming out to regulate issues when fish farming in Europe is second force and proportionally profitable in terms of tuna is first. Even if the United Kingdom leaves Europe, it will still be first. It was us, or rather it was the policy that was inadequate, which led our own units to leave Turkey, which gave them the know-how, the way companies should invest there, and at the moment we have made them the third power in the world. Why don't we take advantage of it? That's what we need to see. We cannot be the ones who have the feta in Greece and do not do serious checks so that the milk does not enter and baptize Greek. All livestock farmers would have put ovine and caprine animals in Greece, perhaps not, in order to produce slices similar to the demand in the world. How will growth come when you reduce public investment? How will growth come from the private, when there is no political stability, when you, the state, the private, have this surplus that you are proud of? How are we going to go forward if we don't take advantage of our young people, our scientific staff? I have said several times from this Step forward that because of Brain Drain we have given our scientists abroad, scientists whose Greek families have fought to study them. That is what we need to see, not only if we share, which are important, in some social groups, but we need to see how development comes. There is no growth with 36% unemployment among young people. Who do we define as young? The ones who are under twenty-five years old. These people cannot create with this unemployment rate, but also with the low incomes they have to date. Let's see what's going on today. PPC and banks are falling apart. We are pre-crisis in these two areas. Greece's growth is about 1.4%, when in Europe the proportion is 2.4%, and countries that are in a situation comparable to our own, are begging when our debt is 180% of our GDP. I grace period characterize 2019, in which you share these benefits in the world. Is it 180% of GDP and we are talking about Bulgaria, when it has 24% of its GDP? We are the last in Europe to eat privately. We didn't leave the memos like this or we shouldn't have to leave the memos like this. And what did you do? Your years of government since 2015, and then you have increased the public expenditure, when I first heard Mr. Pappas say that in 2019 we will be ensuring 400 million, because we will digitise all public services. It took you so many years to do it? If you did so from the outset, it would be a development reform, you would be guaranteed over 1 billion to this day. Why would you do that in 2019? Why would you let it spend more than four years, to do so? We needed these reforms, these countermeasures, not to bring the pension cut back, and then take it back, because you did not make a proper plan. To close, because similar things are heard by the Civic Opposition, I will say that I, being a centre and looking positively at the efforts of all, of course, those who are for the benefit of our country, will take as a presumption of good faith and patriotism the intention of you and the next intent to change our country. But for this to happen, you must sit at a table and find them among you, with the whole political system, because only in this way will we show firmness, seriousness to creditors, to our partners in the European Union, to demonstrate by force who we are and what we want. On your own, and you and the previous ones, all you've done was bring me memos. No matter how much you blame them, that's what you've done. So try the solution that we are proposing to give the floor to all those who are in this Parliament. All you have to do is win that and nothing less. Only with this attitude will we go forward and with no kind of cutbacks, such as the one made in spending on education, such as the one you are doing in the health sector. We all have to prove the whole political system - because we owe it to Greece - that we really care about all Greeks. We owe our fellow citizens the hope that the political system has grabbed them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u123	Thank you too for keeping time. The President, Mr. Tragakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u124	Today's terrorist strike on "SKAI" and "KATHMERINI" shocked us all. The proof is that the sovereign institution of the House, the Conference of Presidents, unanimously condemned the terrorist strike and welcomed the statements made by our President, who spoke about the whole of Parliament. Every time I talk about the budget, I say that the budget is the most important bill that brings any government all year round. My hope and wish has always been to keep the state budget, because it is not usually observed. The debate today, ladies and gentlemen, on the 2019 state budget - let me say - is of particular importance. It involves a good and bad news. The good news is that this is the last budget submitted by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. The bad news is that the country has a full dissolution picture and this image is damaging the economy. Greece is constantly falling at levels of competitiveness. Greece today is a country that cannot claim investment, cannot go out on the markets to be financed. The exit, supposedly, from the memorials is another lie, as is the return to the markets. Because Greece is under surveillance, strictly, and the most worrying thing is that it is unable to borrow, such as Cyprus and Portugal. So the budget is the last of a government whose political time is ending and that is what is good. The bad news is that, along with him, the country's room for recovery is being narrowed. The real economy, the market, is suffocating. Taxes and contributions choke growth, prevent return to normality. A glance at the permanent red table of the Athens Stock Exchange, the low turnover and the non-existent investment interest is enough to see that time ends, both for banks and the economy. Why? Because the architecture of the exit itself - the net outlet without a preventive financing line - created uncertainty in the markets that was reflected and in the formation of the investment environment. Besides - and this is very important - the programme of quantitative relaxation has been lost for our country, the 'Qe' programme, 2.6 trillion euros which our country could have needed more than any other country, with the sole responsibility of the government. She's the only one who couldn't use it. Another missed opportunity for the country because of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 budget reflects the government's political choice to implement a middle-class policy to create surpluses that shape a trend. Austerity measures still exist. The budgetary targets remain high. The overtaxation of households and businesses continues. The state is growing. Public debts shall not be repaid. The Public Investment Programme is shrinking. In order not to cut pensions and give benefits, the government has decided to suspend implementation, mainly of development measures, so it is being cut off from investment. Victims are usually the suspects: the Public Investment Programme, tax refunds to individuals, and socially sensitive sectors that face the consequences of the internal attitude of payments. For example, for public spending, let me make a comment: Public expenditure has collapsed in 2017 at the lowest level of the last decade, with their cumulative delay to date compared with the target of EUR 2.6 billion. And as if that were not enough, public investment is further cut by EUR 550 million in 2019 in order to finance any looped countermeasures. As the Financial Council points out, this practice is a reflection on the development impact of the way the financial area is made available. In fact, given the high growth multiplier of these resources, it is about imposing an additional growth tax by the government. The country, however, needs an investment panoramic public and private investment, as both the undetermined formation and the stock of the fixed capital shrink. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, public investment expenditure is reduced by EUR 1,32 billion in relation to the objective, witnessing the underlying implementation of public investment expenditure. The combination of reduced costs and delays in tax reimbursements and the apparent new delay in repayment of State debts in the private sector lack valuable liquidity from the market, i.e. the real economy. In view of the fact that government allergy to private investment, one would expect that the government would make use of the only investment tool it has in its hands and not sacrifice it for temporary impressions, such as the Public Investment Programme. The draft budget is the motto of today's governance. It seals the end of a four-year cycle of the Greek economic theory characterized by deception, irresponsibility, maladministration, inefficiency, the idea of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. At a time when the OECD estimates that global economy growth will be reduced, the government has not given any impetus to the market, budgets growth of 2.5%. And this in a year that we all call it an election year, where both businesses and the tax evasion mechanism are on standby. The 2019 budget shall be an election budget. The Pension Benefit Fund shall be further reduced for 2019. Insurance contributions to the funds are projected to increase. The salaries of civil servants will be reduced compared to this year, despite the recruitment announced by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget marks the end of the illusion, irresponsibility, malpractice, inefficiency and idea of a government that has cost the country dearly. The country needs capital, investment, jobs, but above all it needs a climate of confidence that will sweep suspicion inside and outside Greece. Fortunately, the end of SYRIZA - ANEL governance comes and seals the beginning of a new cycle of responsibility, pragmatism, seriousness signalled by the new Republic's next governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, too. Mrs Tasia Christodoulopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u126	Good evening. To date, we have heard all the speakers talk about the budget with the usual stereotypes: 'austerity budget', 'anti-development budget', 'anti-llar budget', etc. But what's the budget? It's a photographic moment from the future. It forms part of an overall policy pursued by the government, and anyone who wants to criticise will have to compare the opposite political plan to the political plan implemented by the government and described - in any way described - in the budget. However, we did not see anything specific. The other stereotypes are said to be that the third memorandum was the worst memorandum. That's a stereotype all the opposition is saying, summing up. And I wonder: did the citizens not understand that it was the worst memorial, and indeed with a past of struggles, conflicts, disputes, criticisms that cast governments one after another? The Greek people and the Greek society did not understand, then, that we brought the worst memorial of all the previous ones? Where's the people? Where do you see it? Your colleague, Mr Koumoutsakos, said: 'But nobody tells you a good reason.' We are told, or do you consider yourself to be expressing the Greek people, so are you legitimate to say that it is the worst memorial? Also, the other stereotypes that are heard - fortunately the rest of the Opposition separated its position and remained the New Democracy with the Golden Dawn, no chance - are that we exchanged the non-reduction of pensions with the Ambassadors' Agreement. And well, the Golden Dawn is always in the conspiracy theory, because the extreme right is the most irrational political current that may exist in a country and all that fantasizes. But why did the New Democracy enter this adventure match the Golden Dawn? Because it cannot admit that there are political forces or governments, such as the SYRIZA Government, which fights for the socially weak, particularly for pensioners, so that pensions are not cut off. So he has to find something else, something strange, something important. And what's he trying to do through it? He is trying to incriminate the retired, rejoicing, and telling them: "Lords, SYRIZA nets you". Why does he not invite them to resign and voluntarily request to reduce their pensions in order to reveal this construction, which SYRIZA did? We're talking about funny things. Apart from the stereotype, it's ridiculous, because that's what it's all about. So we come and say, what does the New Democracy say? He says, "What do you give now? Benefits. Where did you get this financial area? Of the bloody surpluses.’ What did Mr Mitsotakis say the other day at the conference? He said: "We will pay EUR 2,000 to every Greek who is now giving birth to a child". Where will Mr. Mitsotakis get the money, he didn't tell us. Of the bloody surpluses we've gathered? Is that where he's going to get them? Where will he get money for the request, which was applauded, that he will increase the minimum wage and take him to EUR 705? Where's he going to get them? From our own bloody surpluses? Because here, at last, we need to talk seriously. All the economy-related people on the New Democracy side spoke, and they said, "But what are you doing? " Benefits. But I hear benefits from you too. Did you realize that this policy is a success, even at the very last moment, and do you copy it as well? Because I cannot explain these constant contradictions. Furthermore, in the speeches, we did not see a note or a comment, something about the current concerns that are taking place throughout Europe. Why is the extreme right growing? What political and economic climate is taking advantage of and growing? Where is the social state in Europe? How much have all the governments demolished it? And why does the SYRIZA Government pursue a reverse policy and say to strengthen the social state so that the peoples and societies of the extreme right do not become hostages? Because, you know, the social state, in addition to the dignity it is suffering, also harms self-confidence because each one feels alone, he is unemployed, he is poor, he is marginalized and cannot be grouped together with the corresponding ones. So he loses his social identity and comes the extreme right and gives him the national identity. He says, "It's okay, I give you another "we" and that's that we are Greek, we are French, etc." Nationalism, ladies and gentlemen, to exist and function, needs enemies. If he doesn't have any enemies he dies, he shrinks like a bathtub. And we, thank God, from enemies of Macedonians, Albanians, Turks, refugees, homosexuals, how many more do we have, how many will the world last and not go to the extreme right? Luckily, it's not going. And I wonder, gentlemen of the New Democracy, why do you copy it? 8%'s down. What do you want? You want to get her glamorous, get her world? What exactly are you doing? And you're mocking the benefits. I even said, in a previous speech to the House, that you are like the Maria Antoinettes that you say: “What does the bread matter? Why not ask for a pancake?’ You are mocking what the government has decided to do for the socially weak, you are precisely because, in any other logic, you are not interested in all of this. I went the other day to the report by Mrs. Kuneva in the Constitution for the two years since Marx was born and read in a dashboard a quote from the eulogy that Engels had made at his funeral at the time, at which he said attributes: "As Darwin discovered the law of evolution, so Marx discovered the law of evolution of human history. The simple fact that people must first of all eat, drink, house and dress, so that they can once deal with politics and with science and religion,” is timely as never before. And you are mocking exactly what we are taking to get people to be citizens again, to seek and give answers to the crisis in the policy you have condemned them. And you're criticizing and saying, "Development. SYRIZA does not bring growth." Do you know this global economic crisis because it happened? You know that capitalism doesn't like the profit rate it earned? So, you know, right now, at the moment we're talking, are there a lot of parked trillions of dollars that never invested? Will you highlight this parameter, or are you telling people that once you're elected, or imagined, will the subject of underdevelopment be over and that growth will take place on your day? What kind of fairy tales are you talking about in society, talking and criticizing SYRIZA and swinging his finger? So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a very serious fact, the budget that we can say everything, say about the far right, and about the yellow vests, because life is not always one coloured, it produces this blackness, but it also produces a yellow one that has voluntarily chosen it to destroy the austerity mechanisms. Around austerity is currently discussing Europe, about what it will do, how long it will last. Great Britain's leaving. There is an incredible crisis in Italy. And you in the Constitution want the balanced budgets to come in so that neoliberalism is worth a century, because the Constitution doesn't change every day. And against all of this we hear nothing. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I think, apart from the fact that you cannot defend anything from today's concerns and share them with the societies that fight for their future, you are also dangerous. This is mainly what concerns me, the other fact that you are identified with the Golden Dawn is fine, it can be judged by your word. The Golden Dawn you invited and legalized it in these infamous rallys for Macedonia. She was hidden and came out with banner thanks to you. You legalize it with the student conquests that you greet them, because youth is right and cares for the homeland. You legalize it with what you said about the construction we set up to give the Prespes, get the pensions. That is what you are doing and these are dangerous things for society, for the political system, for democracy. Well, come to your senses as long as it's time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u127	Mr Thanasis Theocharopoulos has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to condemn the terrorist attack on SKAI. Democracy is not threatened by fierce terrorists, cowardly criminals. And of course, it is not just the verbal condemnation. We need to find the perpetrators. People were at risk. All of us must finally be given a message of non-resistance to violence from all democratic forces. And, above all, to stop the divisional dialogue, the divisional controversy, the conditions of extreme polarization, which fuel, which throw water into the mill of those who are invading our democracy. So, awakening, it takes us to be able to defend our democracy. As far as today's debate on the budget is concerned, we have in front of us a budget that confirms our claim that the policy pursued is not in favour of weak social strata. Of course, having signed commitments for the coming years, which are essentially a heavy surveillance programme for the country, we need greater openness and fewer triumphs. This is a further budget of taxes and an increase in disparities. Craig confirmation is the ratio - I want to dwell on this - indirect and direct taxes. It's the worst of the last few years. Just the opposite of what the Left has always said, that the proportion of indirect taxes to direct taxes must be reduced. 60% now are indirect taxes, which are of course burdening the weakest. For every 1 euro, about to pay out of their pocket for a direct income tax, another 1.5 euros will be taken by means of indirect taxes. This is what I consider to be an unjust but also deeply anti-left and anti-progressive policy. From where you spoke, of course, as opposition to development deficits - I did not hear it today by the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis, but this expression was his favorite - you have reached the very opposite end of having as the only, essentially, budgetary objective the hunting of excessive primary surpluses. This is a deadlocked policy, because, especially in the circumstances of not achieving sustainable development, it means bleeding everything. Where is he confirmed? It is confirmed by the outstanding public debts that increased from EUR 73 billion in 2014 to EUR 103 billion in August 2018, and to the insurance funds, of course, tripled from 2014 to 2018. Along with the overtaxation of employees, professionals and businesses, you are reducing by EUR 800 million overall the social costs, including unemployment benefits, the financing of hospitals is reduced by EUR 79 million and the pension expenditure reduced by EUR 279 million. And for Supplement, you reduce the social security contribution subsidy for young workers from 103 million to 51 million euros. This is, indeed, a policy against workers and the weakest. To confirm, the International Labour Office has recently come, one of our allies in general negotiations - unlike the International Monetary Fund - and says that the greatest wage reduction in Europe in 2017 has occurred in Greece. Because - what he says is the reality, one cannot question it - the elastic forms of work, the underlying forms of work, etc. have been widened. The recent data from EUROSTAT also come, which say, in fact, that social expenditure in Greece is 26.6% of GDP, a little below the Community average. That is not the question, however, but the distribution of these. 65% is social spending, essentially pensions. Insurance is not sustainable. I heard the Prime Minister, Mr Chakalote, saying the day before yesterday that 'the insurance policy has made it sustainable'. I disagree. I'd like to know if you agree with that. Why am I saying that? Because with this number of pensioners, the number of unemployed and the number of workers in our country insurance is not sustainable. With workers of EUR 200 and 300, and not only is the issue of small wages, but also of their contributions to the funds, insurance can never be sustainable. This is where the democratic forces need to sit and discuss - really, this is where national understanding is needed - on how to make insurance sustainable, because we have lost new opportunities. But I come to the breakdown I have told you. In our country, for the issues of family and support, the figure is only 4% compared with 8.7% of the Community average. For housing and social exclusion, 0.9% of our country, compared with 4.2% of the Community average. For health and SMUs, 26% in our country, compared with 37% in the Community average. For unemployment, in which we have the highest proportion in the European Union, 3.7% in our country, compared with 8.1% on the Community average. And if anyone thinks that these are just percentages, let me go to the absolute numbers, 190 euros per person are these expenditures in our country, while the European average is 368 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u129	The figures are 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u130	Yes, this is a 2017 survey that refers to 2016 figures, where you were government, of course. And the problem must not be solved by a reduction in pensions - I am saying the opposite - but by an overall restructuring of the insurance system, so that there are no misunderstandings about various policies being carried out. The truth is that we need brave policy change, so that we can actually create sustainable jobs. We cannot triumph for EUR 300 jobs. When the Minister of Labour had taken over, he had gone abroad and said to negotiate that we have thousands of workers with 300 euros in our country. Then he forgot. He had taken over after Mr. Katrugalo. So he was referring to the age of Mr. Katrugalo. Is there at least any development perspective shown in the budget? Unfortunately, the answer is no, since the public investment programme's steam engine is also reduced by EUR 550 million over the medium term. I consider that to be a great step backwards, too. The irresponsible bleeding of foreign funds affecting the stock market is characteristic. Why is that happening? Because there's uncertainty that doesn't inspire investors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. In conclusion, there is tax drainage, undergoing and flexible work, a reduction in a social state and a lack of a development perspective. In this environment it is wrong to disperse the EUR 710 million, which the citizens of course need, which you will share from the bloody surpluses of over EUR 7 billion. What's our disagreement here? Our disagreement is this: Wanting to achieve excessive primary surpluses and over-recruitment to give back it is a wrong strategy. Because you take from the poor a lot and give just one place back. This is a deadlock policy. The next government must negotiate, from now on, the reduction of primary surplus targets from 3.5% to 2% over the coming years. There's no other way. It is not sustainable for such a long time. I support the fact that public debt must be made sustainable in other ways and not in this way of excessive primary surpluses. Along with a country's reconstruction plan, with progressive tax reform and a stable tax system. I have heard you, Minister, say that you have not done so. It takes three - four years to make a fair tax system and a stable tax system. So why didn't you do it? Has anyone in the European Union been telling you not to have a fair and stable tax system this four years? Why didn't you go ahead and say you were going to do it for the next four years? The voluntary policy on the recycling of poverty is not a social-democratic policy and does not lead to an exit from the crisis. A genuinely progressive policy can only strengthen health, education, work and healthy entrepreneurship. Unfortunately, the budget is moving in exactly the opposite direction to the required direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u132	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Theoharopoulos, I'm not going to comment on a lot of things. I agree with some people, some of them I disagree with what you said. I just want to say one thing. You also study and we talk about it, because the issues you raised are right. With regard to what you have identified, namely a bad mixture of social policy, and therefore how much we pay for pensions and how much for education, housing, etc., look at the evidence - now I do not make a cheap confrontation of your own government with ours for months - 2008. Look, that is, after thirty - thirty-five years, in 2008, i.e. before the crisis and you will see that this distortion existed. There was a cross-check that in the file on social expenditure we spent a lot on pensions, almost nothing on housing and a little on children. We say this: This is what we have tried to deal with not by reducing pensions - that was the fight over the last two years after 2017 - but with the surplus going half to development and half to such social programmes, more targeted. Why did we start from 2018? Because we have also created a financial space - the 260 - for the children and we continue. In my speech tomorrow, however, I will put another issue to you, namely how we can make this budget and future budgets have not only a balance within the dossier of social expenditure, but between social programmes and development. These are the two questions we need to discuss. One, then, is to decide how much social spending is going and to see what the composition is. I have not understood one thing, and that is why I ask you the same question - and I conclude with that, Mr President - that I have done Mr Staikoura. The 900 million we're saying, do you think you'd spend more, same or less? It's the first question. And the second question is within these 900 million we have the right balance between developmental, tax reduction and social expenditure from housing? That, I think, is the real debate we need to have between us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u134	Thank you. Mr. Thodoris Dritsas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u136	No, it's not predictable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u137	Let me give you an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Thodoris Dritsas has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u139	Mr. President, is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u140	Please, when you take the floor. Are you a parliamentary representative? When you take the floor as a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u141	But the Minister doesn't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u142	Facilitate the process, please. It's not a matter of the Minister. You don't understand. The Minister may be in the mood for a long talk. It'll happen from the outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u143	But, right now, is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u144	Of course it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u145	Why are you doing this? They'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u146	What am I doing? Where do I apply the procedure? They expect dozens of colleagues to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u147	One answer, Mr President, to give.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u148	First, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u149	I beg your pardon very much, I ask the floor on the Rules of Procedure: Rule 64(2).
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u150	Are you asking for the floor in the Rules of Procedure? Really?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u151	I am a parliamentary representative and I am entitled to react to the position of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u152	Whatever time you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u153	Sure. Read Article 64.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u154	Well, don't you respect the rest of the speakers? Take it that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u155	I respect the procedure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u156	Is it both true? All right, all right. You have the floor, blackmail, that is. That's the impression you give here, and that's not good. I don't give in to blackmail.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, we are asking why we want to respond creatively. This is done, and we apologise to colleagues too. This is one thing that we also set in the Revision Committee of the Constitution for 2008, for 2007, discussing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u158	Do you have a place?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u159	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u160	But, what are you doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u161	I'm reacting to you said by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u162	You may react at any time and at any time within Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u163	Article 64(2). Read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u164	What can I read? That you can react any time you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u165	I have a right, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u166	Really?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u167	Of course, on the position of a minister. I have a right. We'd be done. There is a question that is very serious. Then, in 2008 and before, the social budgets of the Greek public were among the most, say, populous in Europe. And we said that by comparing social state and social solidarity, we are giving the most money. But when you looked at expenditure, you saw that most of the costs were not going to rights providers, but to operating costs and wages. The proof of a social policy is therefore the reason between what reaches the natural recipient of the right and the intermediates, which are usually the mechanisms of the central government or the general government. So, if something needs to be healed, it is this relationship, and if we could heal it by providing for that reason in the Constitution, that is, what to go to the rightholder and to what extent the intermediary can consume, whether it is a state or a general government. This question is of real importance. In that sense, we see all the 900 million you say. You are addressing, in particular, the New Democracy, these questions, but today also to us and to all the concerns you have developed here. We listen creatively and react in this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Drizzas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you a strange political story from my youth that I think fits. I remember when I was 16 to 17 years old in Piraeus, the political group was always intense. We had strong civilization from our youths. We've always had a lot of different conversations. As strange as it may seem to you - biscuit would be - for young people, following the newspapers of that time, we read the budgets and the budget debate. I remember - we made this fun of the company - saying 'A, a budget. (Parliament adopted the resolution) And we said to each other "wrong, unjust, inappropriate, anti-developmental, tax-driven." From that time on, ladies and gentlemen. This debate is stereotyped when it is made with such an easy approach. And now I understand that the role of counterpopulation is very easy. It has nothing but to raise problems, which are always there and always will exist - correctly - many times and particularly acidified, but avoiding linking them to the cause and cause, last year, last year, the counter-period, five years ago, time, time, and future prospects. So, well, there is a political reason for zeroing, anointing, degrading, because that is exactly the modern political rhetoric, that is to say, rendering the opponent - up to that point - and ending up and needing nothing else - with lines and with all this, and we are therefore ending. But, just after such a deep crisis, such bankruptcy, with bankruptcy and degrading not only economic but also social and value and institutionalism, can the House continue to discuss at this level? And it is possible to discuss, for example, whether the surpluses of 3.5% are stacked, which, of course, cannot be a surplus of 3.5%, which is prologue with a policy. But at what juncture, ladies and gentlemen? At the juncture where it has now been forgotten that "take up to 3% of the deficits". Italy and France now find themselves in the mandatory and pressing apology for having a deficit in their budgets so that they can shape conditions and conditions of recovery. "Absolutely for all 2%" whether it was in the memorandum or not. These are the conditions of modern-day globalised neoliberalism and the correlations in Europe. Are we going to have a debate on the primary surpluses beyond this reality? Are we going to talk about Tsakalot, about Juliarakis and about Tsipras, who accepted and fought to balance this 3.5% surplus? About the debt. Are we going to have the debate on surpluses without talking about debt? A glorious glorious glorious thing and what Mr Theocharopoulos said yesterday and what Mr Cremastino or Mr Scandalidis said yesterday about the necessary consensus. Debt. Is it not a huge European and global issue of debt and the deletion of a significant part of European debt or of its regulation under other conditions? Is Greece isolated? Is that something she can regulate on her own? He fought for this government and was completely alone, there was no political party that supported Tsakalotos, Juliarakis, Tsipras and all the ministers and the government, just when they kept and under these conditions the question of debt regulation open, as they were, to the point where they came from and linked it to everything else. Don't we know for a year that pensions will not be cut? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, about a year ago. Why do we know? Because when Tsakalotos, Juliarakis or Tsipras gave the battle to avoid imposing the pension cut, they had such important and complete documentation that no one could oppose it, neither the Germans, nor the French, nor the Dutch, nor anyone. The arbitrary and enforcement of Tomsen imposed that compromise, but the documentation was recorded. There was no Minister of Finance or Prime Minister of the Eurozone telling Tsakalotus or Tsipras then "no, you're not right, it's not right for you." Everyone admitted that the evidence was correct and the contradictions and conflicts and the various economic, political and other games that were played in this controversy swing were played. But this was recorded when the reality came about a year ago and confirmed the Greek Government, who could, when Tomsen's calculations proved to have collapsed and the calculations of Tsakalotus or Tsipras and Juliarakis had been confirmed, say 'no, will the pension cut be imposed'? This reality that will be written by history and also by the archives at some point, we ignore it and we are looking to find this irrational, which Tasia Christodoulopoulos has rightly said, which is also seeming to be irrational: "We are being sprayed by some other aliens from somewhere else." We are looking to find the'secret agreement' of Tsipras with the Europeans for the Prespecies Agreement as a reason for justifying the non-cutting of pensions, of course, because otherwise we will recognise that we have a government that has credibility, which has documentation, which knows what it does, which is a step-by-step step, but, with the aim, because that is the reality in our time. Unfortunately, great leaps and great visions cannot be formed. I wish we could, both Europe and Greece and the societies all. But, in the face of this huge alienation of people, the demolition of social groups and the emergence of individuality in an outrageous competition, which one scanning one another, it is impossible to form long-term strategic policies. You have goals, you have compositions and you walk step by step. And that's been captured all four years. And I conclude, Mr President, by saying that this is why we have come to the conclusion of the Memorandum of Understanding. It's no accident. Unemployment has therefore declined to 19%. That is why we have moved on to primary health, which is institutional, within the crisis, reform. That's why access to health for uninsured people. That's why school lunches. That's why children's allowance. That's why the rental allowance. For this transport equivalent, nurseries and everything that shapes self-confidence and the possibility of avoiding the humanitarian crisis and justice as a development factor. There is no way of developing with a broken society. There is no way, if work does not find its role and dignity, unless a development factor is employed together with investment, together with entrepreneurship, work is an equivalent development factor, with all that that means to wages and pensions, working hours and conditions and everything, then there cannot be growth and much more sustainable development. This is SYRIZA. This is his government. That is why, if we want consensus, we must be honest. If we really want consensus, we must also be responsible. If we want perspective in this country, we need to understand what has finally happened in this country which has developed enormously at the time of stock exchanges and in a few years it has sinked, collapsed, fell on the rocks. If we do not draw these conclusions, how can we talk about them anyway, one proposal or another? In this respect, therefore, Parliament is all called upon to respond, because we have no right to disappoint the Greek people again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u170	Thank you. By the time Mr. Stylus arrives, I'd like to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the High School of Castritsi Achaia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Style, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, let me refer to the current situation in Greek society: economic destruction, three hundred thousand padlocks, a million unemployed, ruthless pension cut, seventeen on SYRIZA - ANEL and twenty-nine tax increases from the current government of national salvation. More than four hundred thousand young people, mostly graduates with postgraduate degrees, have left the hostel. In fact banks are suspended, red loans exceed 80 billion euros and are sold in funds at 5% of their value. Current debts to taxi and insurance funds have reached 140 billion euros and owes one to two taxpayers. The primary sector has created suffocation conditions for the Greek farmer. Competitiveness disappears. Investments collapse, wages fall, flexible forms of employment prevail and 60% of new recruitment is part-time. Long-term unemployment prevails, especially young people. Births decreased in the crisis by about 29,500, while they had fallen in the 1940 ’ s, which was 300,000. The population of Greece, according to recent studies, will decline from 800,000 to 2,500,000 by 2050. Ladies and gentlemen, the question arises how the other countries in the same situation as us have succeeded. Greece and Portugal have been two of the poorest countries of the European Union for many decades. Both applied to rescue programs and memos at the same time. However, the different logic and political commitment to implementing the reforms has had visible results in Portugal. And I can explain: While Greece's GDP has shrinked by 25%, Portugal has shrinked by 8% by 2017. Portugal had started recovering all the losses. Greece until a few years ago was above per capita income, and today Portugal exceeds 2,000 euros per year. A corresponding picture is also given in a number of indicators of growth and competitiveness. For example, Portugal is in the thirty-fourth place in DoING BUSINESS, while Greece is in the 72st place. The programme of Portugal was completed a year earlier. In Greece, additional programmes were needed and the risk of a Grexit. Thus, the budgetary effort in Portugal was less, resulting in surveillance being until 2026, while surveillance in Greece will be until 2060. How, then, did the Portuguese manage? They effectively and without delay valued money from the European Union's structural funds, simplified procedures in public structures by removing bureaucracy, differentiated their products from their respective markets that could not compete because of low costs, such as China. They invested in quality. They created new associations of exporters and strengthened the existing ones. The productive growth policies of smaller enterprises in Portugal improved survival and international competitiveness. Productivity increased by 6% while in Greece it decreased by 12%. The strengthening of the processing, the industrial base and extroversion of the vehicles became the growth and creation of new jobs. Catalysts are the role played by increasing exports as a percentage of GDP of more than 10% from the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the comparative advantages of our country is primary production, agri-food. The recovery, in my opinion, will come from linking production to processing and, in particular, industry, which is the basis of extroversion. It creates more than 16% of gross value added, reduces imports, has higher productivity by 22%. In our country, however, the continued abandonment of agricultural production and processing has been rooted in the minds of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, resulting in the abandonment of the primary sector and the shrinking of the country's manufacturing base. The proportion of Greek industry in GDP is below 10% and the European average is about 15%. Farm production is at 4% and falling. The farmed areas and livestock, according to the official figures of the Ministry of Agriculture, are reduced. Farmers and farmers are leaving the profession, the Greek country is devastated, the country is small. What is the absorption of the NRP and the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme? I will give you some information - you know it - which is the official record of your ministries. The "Competitiveness of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises" programme is about 16%, in the "Research, Technology and Innovation" programme it is about 5%, while in other areas you give special priority, such as social inclusion, for example, you are 43% or in employment you are 38%, because we have a difference in perception. The development part of the Rural Development Programme has not been absorbed into a single euro - I say it again, until now, not even EUR 1! - from the processing measure. Ladies and gentlemen, we need strategic visions. We must use and invest in the specific features of the different regions of our country, to highlight and strengthen the comparative advantages of the Greek region in a multicentre model of development with specialization, as well as export classics and new networks. Connect the agri-food sector, i.e. production with tourism, with services, with applied research and the creation of new quality and competitive products. Every year millions of tourists visit our country. We must meet their nutritional needs with our own products. Ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget is a small budget, which we are voting against in principle and as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u172	So do we. Mr. George Papaliou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I note that despite the fact that all the intercurrent catastrophic scenarios that you, Mr. Officers, have presented, as well as PASOK, have collapsed, you insist. I would say that you live in your world and not in the world of reality. We didn't say there were no problems. We never projected - far from us! - the Success stores of the NW government - PASOK. But the course of gradual reversal of things has begun. There are difficulties. However, we are trying to overcome these difficulties with our policies which are reflected in the 2019 budget and to open up a new way for the country. Ladies and gentlemen, in August 2018 the cycle of fiscal adjustment was closed with the country's exit from the "memorandum" austerity policies. This exit is not a formal process. This is a substantial development. The country gradually recovers considerable margins and degrees of autonomous economic policy. This is also demonstrated by the measures that have recently been adopted, but also those which are to be voted on by the House, which shape the new reality in our country. In 2018, as a follow-up to the previous years of governance of SYRIZA, it was characterised by the further improvement of the fiscal situation, the marked improvement of all economic confidence receivers, the upgrading of the country's credit rating, the reduction of unemployment from the unthinkable 27%, and 60% for young people launched in the New Democracy - PASOK government, 18.6% and the increase in employment, the small but significant improvement of wage index and the reduction of income inequalities, as well as the reduction of the threat of extreme poverty and extreme poverty in itself. Finally, the overrun of the economic result achieved, has led and given the Government the margin of return on part of this surplus, in the form of a social dividend to those categories of citizens most in need. The 2019 State Budget is the first budget for budget expansion after a decade. The year 2019 will be the first, as of 2010, full year of economic policy, outside the framework of the budgetary adjustment programmes. The budget reflecting the change in the fiscal policy mix aims to strengthen the household income available and to create conditions for strengthening healthy entrepreneurship, by progressively reducing tax burdens, for households and businesses, and reducing insurance contributions for specific business categories. Likewise, with the forthcoming increases in the minimum wage, the abolition of the subordinated and, in addition, the reintroduction of the collective autonomy of free collective bargaining and collective agreements. In addition, the budget aims to support sustainable development by strengthening targeted and concrete development actions, combating unemployment and boosting employment, in particular young people. They are designed and implemented and will continue to implement sectoral programmes with main employment actions for unemployed graduates of HEIs and TEIs, the grant of enterprises for the employment of young unemployed in higher education graduates in smart specialisation and productive activity sectors, new integrated interventions for training, practical training and certification linked to dynamic productive activities, peaks sectors, professional support and training for young scientists. All this, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the new development model that is being attempted, it is based on productive logic, knowledge, innovation, extroversion and social fair distribution of the wealth produced and it is replaced by the economic model of the past based on lending and imports. They are included in the holistic development programme, which sets objectives, priorities and specific actions, which are part of the axes of social fair productive reconstruction that are being promoted. Finally, the budget aims to address, in a targeted way, chronic social protection deficits, by transforming the voluntary welfare model for vulnerable members of society into a model of universal care and solidarity for all. The pillars on which development policy is based and will support development policy are economic stability, sustainable development by promoting the digital economy, in particular the digitisation of the public sector, the attraction of investments, the formulation of favourable conditions for strengthening newly created enterprises and the shift of small and medium-sized enterprises into productive investments, the strengthening of extroversion on the basis of the utilization of the country's comparative advantages, focusing on the primary sector, combined with the processing of agricultural and livestock products, tourism, energy and support for human capital and workers' rights. Also, an important pillar is the development of inclusive, with the reduction of social and regional disparities, the support of isolated mountain and island regions, the promotion of ecology, cyclical, social and solidarity, without the exclusion of our fellow citizens living in forgotten Greece from education, training, health and social protection services. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by pointing out that the first Memorandum of Understanding lay the foundations and creates the conditions for the new production model, on which the country will go in the coming years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This takes ‘carcas and bones’ with social solidarity policies, energy communities and strengthening cooperative collectives, group schemes in the primary sector and not just. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. At all levels, there will be two different political options corresponding to different poles. The neoliberal policy is expressed by the conservative fact that, unfortunately, it has embedded and extreme right-wing positions, tending to transform into an extreme neo-conservative shape, to which the representatives of the extreme right give it. Unfortunately, however, it is also expressed by PASOK's 'neo-liberal social democrats' who, in the name of their desire and desire to be strategically defeated by SYRIZA, do not hesitate to use all means in political controversy, just and unfairly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u174	Your time is over. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u175	The neoliberal choice at European level is reflected in the retrograde forces of the xenophobic extreme right. The other option, progressive, left-wing, highlights and implements policies aimed at the country's socially fair reconstruction. These are the problems that are posed both in our country and in Europe. In this regard, the 2019 budget and the policies followed by SYRIZA up to and including the elections next year, in which the people will be invited to give the answers they need, because they have a memory and a crisis. The people will not allow the country to return to bankruptcy and have opened the way to comitology and the memoranda. And 'the meaning'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u176	Thank you. The Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity now has the floor, Mrs Theanos Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting tomorrow, after leaving the country from the memoranda, on a budget which records that the economy has returned to growth at 2.5%, the highest of the last decade. Growth is reflected in increased export employment, demand and, of course, in ECA income for the third consecutive year. It's about 900m euros. The development is, however, achieved without reductions in pensions, without an increase in insurance contributions, which on the contrary reduces for young farmers and freelance professionals and by reducing business tax and business VAT, since you like it. Most importantly, however, it is achieved by increasing the minimum wage in February and by increasing social costs. These are the first samples of writing in our government that would have been impossible to happen if we hadn't come out of the memoirs. There's more to it. You'll see it next year. That is exactly what New Democracy is afraid of, that is, of the people seeing what a government can do outside memorials, our own government. That's why we're saying it's our time. Development with an increase in social costs means an increase in expenditure mainly for welfare. We are increasing the welfare budget by 75% from 2018 to 2019, i.e. from 1,836,000 euros to 3.225,000 euros. In 2015 we received a budget of EUR 790 million and fifty-four employees This was the privileged state you delivered. In three years' time, we have increased the budget by 408%, that is, from EUR 790 million, to EUR 325,000, because we believe that high welfare spending is essential to society and at the same time development, unlike Mitsotakis and BSE. We did not exist in the European Prosperity Charter even in the eras of prosperity. In the crisis, that system collapsed. In 2015, the country recorded the highest rates of poverty and child poverty. This success story you handed us over. With immediate measures to address the humanitarian crisis, the decline of unemployment, the CRL, access to two and a half million uninsured public health system, we dropped the rates of poverty and child poverty by two units in 2017 with incomes of 2016. That is, only in the first two years, in 2015 and 2016, we spent EUR 1,600,000 for the weak, when the New Democracy and the PASOK for five years had not spent a single euro. Now all of a sudden, yesterday, Mr. Mitsotakis remembered the weak ones. We received a customer, subsidized and institutional state, two hundred allowances granted from a hundred twenty different sources, thousands of institutions that no one knew how many were and how many are serving. Citizens had to have something to do with some kind of centre of power or some degree to see what they are entitled to and to take it with endless bureaucracy. Now we hear that SYRIZA created a state of benefits. Tell us what benefits you'll cut. The answer, of course, was given by Mr. Mitsotakis to PPC who said that he would incorporate all benefits into the minimum guaranteed income. Yesterday he announced that the minimum guaranteed income would be EUR 900 million, i.e. 0,5 % of GDP. He threw it down. In the summer he said of a billion euros. We are already giving 850 million to the CRL and a total of 3,200,000 euros to all benefits. I'll ask you another question: make the bill. So, he's gonna cut everyone's benefits, you know, who's not extreme poor? In other words, it will cut off from the four-member family whose income is over 5,000 euros all the allowances. That was the IMF plan, that's what the New Democracy replicates. He called for a "storage" in pensions, unemployment benefits, marriage, maternity, funeral costs, public institution and elderly, family allowances, disability benefits, student housing subsidies, the transport of students and tents. We didn't cut off a single euro. On the contrary, we've increased. So I return to the question: What allowances will you cut? What is the welfare budget proposed by the New Democracy for 2019? It's a rhetoric. You don't have a welfare program or a budget. Only communication fireworks and crocodile tears for the child, the ingenuity and the demographics that you have just discovered in the three-year period 2015-2018. Twenty years ago, the Intergroup told you what to do about demographics. You didn't do anything. For us, the huge increase in the welfare budget is not enough. It needs a change in the prognostic model. Only this combination combats social inequalities - that is, increasing spending and changing the model at the same time - which also recorded very high indicators at the time of prosperity. With our policies, for the first time, we dropped the index of social inequality in Greece. That is why, along with the increase in expenditure, we are changing the welfare model with two axes. Firstly, we are establishing a welfare state for all citizens and not just for the poor. This strengthens social cohesion, reduces disparities and improves growth indicators, as demonstrated by the northern countries that you all like to mention. We've been applying this for the child for the first time. In other words, first, we offer a hundred fifty - three thousand school meals for all children every day in 2019, until 2021. All primary children, five hundred thousand children, will have warm quality school meals. Secondly, there will be an increase in the child's allowance from EUR 650,000 to EUR 1,020,000 in 2018, resulting from a million four hundred forty thousand children last year to receive a million five hundred three thousand children, that is, a hundred and twenty - three thousand more children. The New Democracy says it will reinstate the tertiary and polytext allowance. He ignores that with our own system 55% of laundry and tritecs have increased for both children or two the increase is 75% to 110%. What do you mean you'll bring back the old system? Would you cut them? Thirdly, we will have an increase of vouchers for nursery stations from seventy thousand children in 2015 to a hundred twenty-seven thousand in 2018, that is, forty-eight thousand more children, aiming at a hundred forty-five thousand in 2019 and 2020, establishing new thirty-three thousand places for infants. I oppose Mr Mitsotakis' announcements, which show complete ignorance of the problem, and therefore argue that with EUR 1,000 less - we have heard that too! - from what we give for each voucher, he will give a thousand euros less and will find all the children a place in nurseries. Mr Mitsotakis, we have given for the child within three difficult years 1,300,000,000 euros, that is, 500 million euros more than we have received. I hope you do not mean that you return to EUR 800 million and that is where you will add EUR 2 000 for every new birth. As far as the housing allowance is concerned, 400m euros is not about extreme poverty, it will be received by four hundred thousand families for rent or loan. In 2020 six hundred thousand families will get 600 million euros. Fifth, horizontal policy is decoupling, the law on assumption and adoption and camping for all children. Second Axis: The new pro-active state will be transparent with digital services and services that abolish customer relations and bureaucracy. It is the two forty-two digital community centers, the heart of the welfare of the municipalities, as even the mayors of the New Democracy say today, which the New Democracy not accidentally voted against. In this we set up an additional hundred family support centres, a hundred and fifty full-time care centres, which will coordinate three thousand new permanent employees of "Help at Home", the KAPI and the KHPI. It is the Digital OPEKA, the Social Solidarity Benefits Agency, which we founded and which will provide transparent, speedy and intersection of six databases all benefits and benefits and will also give the disabled on the same day from early 2019. It is the electronic disability file that abolishes EUR 46 and facilitates the disabled. It's the digital recording of all the institutions we didn't even know how much it was. It is the digital application of the law on assumption and adoption, which will open the new year. It's e-coordination for constellation and dehabilization. The New Democracy is attempting nationalist folding, grafting its amputations unfortunately, or trying to graft them - I don't believe it - on a golden basis. We are moving to a pro-active state for all, which respects the citizen, with transparency and digital services. That will be the challenge of the next elections: the division and nationalist resurgence or a society of solidarity in coherence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-four students and students and two teachers from the Gymnasium Castritsi Achaia (second section). We welcome you to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Constantine Karamanlis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my position, I think it is my duty to express my full support for the workers and journalists of "Kathimerini" and "SKAI". The terrorist attack is also the result of the extreme polarisation that we have all experienced in recent months. And let me say something else with which I think most in this Chamber will agree. Anyone accusing and attacking the media - whether it is private or state-owned - because it is not likeable, shows how he perceives the functioning of the press and information in a favoured democracy. A top parliamentary procedure is currently being conducted in the House in connection with the debate on the state budget. Ministers and MPs of the government majority claim that this is the first Memorandum of Understanding Budgets. The reality, however, in our view, is very different. We are as a country trapped in budgetary discipline by 2060, which is unprecedented for a sovereign state. We are unable to get out on the markets and one in both Greeks owes the tax office and the insurance funds. They talk to us here, Ministers, about an expansion budget, and you support this in an almost festive way in the abolition of the reduction in pensions, but you have introduced it in May 2017. To date you have made seventeen interventions to the detriment of pensioners and you have increased taxes twenty times. And I wonder if that is a left-wing policy, if that is social policy. Ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, one in two Greeks owes tax today, with a total debt of more than EUR 100 billion. Almost two million of our fellow citizens are faced with forced collection measures and one million of our fellow citizens have already been confiscated. If that is left-wing politics, then I guess words have lost their value. At this point, you will allow me to focus a little on the area I am supervising, that of infrastructure and transport, which is also the area with the policies pursued by the Ministry, unfortunately, shows that we are also at a dead end. First sad observation: In the last four years the government has not compromised a great deal of work. What does that mean to just Greek? That you have not even started a new project. That's the reality. What you do successfully - and I acknowledge it to you, the truth is - is that you complete the major projects which you found by 70% or 80% ready from the previous governments. You will allow me to stand on the example of Patras to Tower. It's a big project that you could have done, but you chose to block it. It is a project that was prepared to finance in 2014, a project that the entire Peloponnese expects with anguish to do. What did you do? You split it into eight pieces, canceled the auction, so we could finally get to see what? The first four pieces of taking them into a particular contractor company, which will probably not be able to carry out the work and the work four years later, not just to have started, but to be by EUR 50,000,000 more expensive than what we have left you. What about the worst? Prepare to do exactly the same on the northern road on Crete. Because what are you doing? It is cut into three sections, of which you are auctioning both, but both are auctioned with two different kinds of contests. Conclusion: Four years now the Ministry has failed neither to plan nor to fund, but in fact neither to implement a major infrastructure project. Secondly, it is regrettable that the situation that all citizens are experiencing, particularly those who are not privileged, namely those who use urban transport. You have levelled Athens' urban transport. The numbers speak for themselves. Of the 1,800 buses and trolleybuses released in 2015, they are currently running around 950. What did you do to the transportation of Thessaloniki? You state them. You've reduced the fleet, reduced the revenues. Even the mayors who supported statism and who belong to your area, complain. Finally, you dissolved STASY, the company that was a model, since in 2014 it had not taken a single euro from the state budget. In short, you have accomplished the impossible. And the price of the ticket increased to Athens from 1,20 euros to 1,40 euros and the financial situation of these companies, you dramatically and much worse transportation has been achieved by Greek citizens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I come to the third point which personally makes me sad, that of the political stumbling of Greek citizens in the tragedy in Matti. That is how the Prime Minister himself came to justify the delay in the EUR 2 000 allowance on the grounds that the citizens will waste it. I know the Minister himself, Mr. Spirtzis, has been to Matti personally many times. I will not blame him, as others have done in this Chamber, neither for the dead nor for the uncertainties of the government. What I am going to say to him, however, is that the government has still not paid due attention today, and that proves why the citizens themselves, the firefighters who have lost relatives, who have lost their property, have not been compensated. However, as a government, and especially the Minister in particular, I believe it is an insult to Parliament's institution. He reluctantly refuses to come to Parliament himself and answer the questions we have asked about what action the government has taken both for the tragedy in Matti and for the tragedy in Mandra. A New Democracy Party has tabled two topical questions in November 2017 and this year in June, which have never been answered. This is not an honour for parliamentarianism either, but you will allow me to say a word about your government, because in this Chamber if we have to do something, even if we disagree, it is a dialogue. I conclude by saying that I have explained to you the reasons why the New Democracy will vote against the budget and I hope that this budget will be your last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u180	Thank you. Mr Christoforos Papadopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. I am not one of those who is enthusiastic either by quote or by confrontation with numbers. On the contrary, I am very careful about what is called the experienced reality of citizens, how they feel, how they enjoy the consequences of politics. I will not therefore say that we are living in a happy society, in a society of prosperity and justice. The opposite is true. However, there are some figures which are indicative and inspired in the consciousness of the majority of people. We received the government of the country in 2015 with unemployment at 27% from 9% in 2008. GDP loss was 25%. The loss of income was 36%. The minimum wage was reduced by 22% for all young people by 32%. The wages and pensions were squandered, and at the same time everyone could find the production dismantling, the closed businesses, the closed shops. Today's reality does not need much analysis. The 344,000 new jobs, that is, the 27% rate of unemployment that went to 18.6%, is important for many thousands of people and families. The tripling of companies that open up compared to those that close gives opportunities for jobs gives the possibility of a more optimistic perspective for a large part of the population. Reducing undeclared work from 19.1% in 2014 to 12.4% shows the conscious effort to shrink this part of black, gray labour, undeclared work and targeted active policies in the workplace show a huge effort to reverse the generalised trend in capitalism - and especially in the European area - for flexible labour relations and job insecurity. I could quote other elements about how we interpret this social optimism that can be created by a mix of different policies. For example, I mention the increase in building activity by 17.9%, the increase in exports and it goes on to say. Nevertheless, it is of interest to see in general what are the two political strategies that conflict both in Greece and in the European area. Economicists are talking about supply finances on the one hand and demand finances on the other. The economics of the offer are trying with unique value to improve the profits of companies to create the framework for increasing profits and when it is good to do so, as New Democracy says, then we will share the pie. But let us not forget that reality itself disproves them. And in the whole world and in Europe, they are now talking about job-free growth, about increasing GDP, about increasing business profits, and society is not only collecting anything, but at the same time it comes into a more social crisis and reacts in any way it can. That is why we have been seeing this whole period developing struggles outside the original intention, in fact they show this huge social policy deficit and the increase in the inequalities that exist. On the other hand, our policy is based on what we call an increase in demand. In other words, we know that, both theoretical and empirically, without an increase in popular consumption there are no jobs, there are no investments. No one can place investment projects when he knows that austerity has depleted any market potential. At the same time as our effort is aimed at demand, it is trying to fill a gap of decades, the absence of a social state, a welfare state. You all know that our basic argument and the evidence we have shown, so that we can clearly convince not the IMF, but the European counterparts, was that the pension in the Greek family does not only cover a pension need, but it covers the entire privileged part that is absent from the state. In this sense, the measures we have taken, which the Theanoo Fotio has said so much more in detail, are about universal access to public health and especially to uninsured people, who were excluded, they have to do with the recruitment of teachers, they have to do with primary health, they have to do with school meals, the allowances of children, rent, heating, the CRL, the equivalent of transport, which, apart from the part of social solidarity, also have a part of economic development, economic potential. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because I have little time, I want to make a little observation. I said earlier that there is no possibility, expectation, for large investment in a time of capitalist crisis. What are the characteristics of the capitalist crisis? It is that there are "weighted" funds, which do not take the risk of productive investment, instead prefer to "carry" at a minimum interest rate on some large banks or play on the stock market. With this in mind, then, we had to devise new tools for development. We are told by the Vice-Presidents, yes, but you have reduced the programme of public investment. At the same time, however, they forget to say that we have developed and are looking for new financial instruments so that we can create precisely that investment that the private sector cannot take on. So it is not just the public investment programme, it is cofinanced, it is the ESRB, it is the European Investment Bank, it is the European Fund for Strategic Investments, which in total, in this three-year period, offered the Greek economy around 13 billion. In this sense, when you want to make strategic planning, you have to use any potential that gives you a whole grid and power system and at the same time develop those friendly powers to go along with the plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u182	Thank you. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Fotis Kouvelis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, the condemnation of terrorism against the SCAI is unequivocal. We support the workers at SKAI and at the same time point out that our condemnation, condemnation of this bombing of terrorist activity, is unequivocal, without unspeakable, unsubstantiated and unsubstantiated interpretations, as is done on the part of the Anti-Population Committee, to attack this event against SYRIZA as well. Ladies and gentlemen, the fiscal policy of the years 2015-2018 was aimed at homogeneous, objective that was achieved, to correct the country's structural budgetary balances. After eight years and in 2016-2017 he first recorded in the modern history of the Greek economy budgetary surpluses of general government, which are expected, during certain estimates, to be maintained in the long term. The budgetary figures of the economy are being improved, and whatever the opposite, opposite reason in this finding of improving budgetary levels must appear to be documented, but I have not heard any such documentation from the side of the counterpopulation. The fiscal policy is aimed at, turns and turns, admittedly with careful steps in strengthening household income, supporting sustainable and fair growth and addressing deficits, chronic social protection deficits. And why fair growth? Why does the government choose to speak of the need for fair growth? Remind me of some distant past, but in the recent past, the development of those high-indicators seasons, high-rate, 4.8%, 4.9%, and sometimes 5% had been approached. However, the question comes back: Who was the overseer of the economic result produced by that development? Was it Greek society? Has the effect of developing on society's joints spread? Apparently, no. And that growth opened the way and we were driven, our country was driven into the economic crisis. That is why insistence on fair growth. Of course, we want to tackle - and the budget is specific - the chronic social protection deficits and I must say to you with complete honesty that these deficits that we want to address on social protection are a priority, are, if you like, the political foundation of this economic policy, social protection. That is where the budget is aimed at reducing tax burdens, reducing insurance contributions, persons and businesses, through social protection measures, by boosting employment, especially young people. And my question once again - and I can assure you that it is genuine - is this: why do you not confess, ladies and gentlemen, that unemployment has fallen? We are not happy that the reduction is below 20%, but at high levels, high in our assumptions and needs of society and we want it to be reduced even further, but why do you not confess it? Why is the reason for your absence when you refer to unemployment and are working on fraudulent courses, with a parallel opposition, to question the value of this decline in unemployment, which is more than 10%? Of course, let me repeat it. The budget is aimed at social protection actions. The aim again is to strengthen social cohesion and economic activity. Ladies and gentlemen, in my time, I would like to point out that the cancellation of the measure to reduce the personal differences in main and secondary pensions did not arise at random, was not lightning in hunger, was the result of the financial performance of the last three years and of course of the sacrifices of the citizens. Rewarding these sacrifices in a sustainable and fair way is once again our aim. And I am sorry - and I tell you this genuinely and sincerely - when you are trying to reduce the value of this measure of cancellation of pensions and choose the divisional ratio, the extremely dangerous reason for democracy and the cohesion of the socio-political function of our country, saying that the government has exchanged and sold Macedonia with the non-reduction of pensions. Think about it. Think of how dangerous this is, not only today, but on a journey of years, precisely for this socio-economic cohesion that our country must ensure. Let me come to the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. The appropriations under the State Budget for 2019 amount to EUR 339.100,000, compared with EUR 322.200.000 for 2018. In other words, for 2019 they are increased by 6,900,000 euros. The budget appropriations of the Ministry of Maritime and Island Policy will cover specific costs relating to the result to be achieved, including the development and support of society, in particular in this area, will cover the costs of subsidising the ancestral lines for the uninterrupted movement of the passenger on the island, for the preservation of the maritime roads into the country and for meeting the needs related to migration and refugee flows related to actions linked to improving competitiveness in the maritime sector. Of course, from these budgeted funds, an important place will be made available to the tertiary education of the representatives of the Port Authority and the Greek Coast Guard, as well as for maritime education. I must tell you that naval education is our priority, and it is no accident. It is characteristic of this priority that we have put, not only on my own state of affairs but on the part of Mr. Dritsa, Mr. Kurubli, the establishment of the Academy of Commercial Navy which has recently begun to operate in Kalymnos. Of course, we want to grant housing allowances to students of the Academy of Merchant Navy who are studying away from home. We support and develop an integrated programme for the safety of shipping and the safety of human life at sea from this budget. We support actions linked to the protection of the national heritage and the architecture of the island regions of the Aegean, even actions linked to culture, to sport. Within this amount we want to make use of, we have as care for the return of revenue to the public port authority. At the same time, there is the Public Investment Programme, because this will finance the Ministry's actions to develop island regions and to meet local social needs, as well as actions in the field of migration within its competence. I want to make a special reference to transport equivalent. The transport equivalent is a measure to enhance the equality of the people of our country, taking into account the particular characteristic of Greece's multiple insularity and is an element of social cohesion. The concept of transport equivalent is that the islander pays a ticket similar to the means of transport on land, on land. In 2018, 60m euros were granted, while in 2019 the measure will apply to the entire island region, except for Crete, Evia and Lefkada, and the amount will amount to 156m euros. I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that the regulation also concerns the transport of fuel for small and remote islands. Indicative of my point, however, is that this development - as I described just before - must be fair, equal and, of course, for the whole country, in that country, which could be called the only literally 'Police', with our endless islands, with our excellent seas and the possibilities for fair growth that we are seeking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, too. It is known to the House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Migration Policy "Urgent regulations of the Ministry of Migration Policy". Furthermore, the Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy ‘Environmental arrangements of the Ministry of Environment and Energy Clearing it from 20.11.2018 Convention between the Greek State and the companies ENERGEAN OIL AND GAS - ENERGEAN AEGEAN AEGEAN ISLANDS REQUIREMENTS FOR RESEARCH AND PRODUCTION HYDROGONDROKERS AND KAVAL OIL ANONYORIA, amending the Convention on the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the marine region of the Thrace between the Greek Government and the KAVA OIL ANONYREIA ratified by Law 2779/1999 (A'296) and other provisions’. Mr Tasoulus from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u185	One way, ladies and gentlemen, to understand each other is to hear what each other says about each other. I chose something more interesting today to hear what a distinguished history professor says about us. William McNill was a Canadian history professor for many decades at the University of Chicago and wrote an impressive book entitled "The Transformation of Greece after World War II". It ends this way: "If we take as a criterion the satisfaction of human desires and ambitions, then the growth of Greece over the last thirty-five years - it means the period 1944 to 1978 - must be seen as an incredible success story. Things that seemed unthinkable in '45 became a reality for millions of Greeks. There has been a transformation of human life that has no precedent in the history of Greece. This transformation has affected an entire population within a single generation and has brought about such a change in social structure, so that it has made it impossible to return to the old life with a focus on the village, of course, if we are to exclude the total collapse of urban society and the radical impoverishment that would lead millions of people to starvation. Your views on the old political system, his plausibility, and his viciousness, are not new. Similar views that supported the regime of the seven-year dictatorship led the late Georgios Rally in 1971 to publish an impressive book entitled "The Truth for Greek politicians". In this book, which Rallis boldly took out in '71, explains what McNeil admired and called "Transformation of Greece". Rallis writes in 1971 against the alleged fraud and allegedly fraudulentity of the invoking of the dictatorship: "In the official Greek figures, in the period '54-66, the average annual increase in gross national income amounted to 6.7%, of agricultural and livestock income in 3.5% and of processing in 9%. This rate of economic growth has led to an increase in per capita income. While in '55 it was 250 dollars, in 1964 it reached 600 dollars and in '66 $790. The state budget contribution to the public investment account from 1.5 billion drachmas in 1955 went to 5.7 billion drachmas in 1962. The good fiscal policy has made the Greeks gain confidence in the drachma and forget about chrysophilia, with the result that for the first time, after fifteen years, they will again begin to deposit the banks. The deposits in '56 were 4.5 billion drachmas, in '63 they were 31 billion drachmas. The stability of the drachma allowed the internal lending to be resumed and PPC's bonds to be issued, which contributed greatly to the electricity supply of the country, were issued." [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] Why did this happen? Because something was followed, which is not followed today. This economic miracle was the sole result of the householded fiscal and credit policy of the 1953-63, which allowed the then deficit budget to show inconveniences to investment aid and increased production. At the same time, with the disposal of surpluses due to household management, a tax reduction policy was followed, especially for lower incomes. What is happening today when we are looking to find a magic solution for problems that we have solved effectively in the past? Today, all the economic policy objectives of the country have failed. The loan contract ended in August 1918 and the objectives of exiting the markets, the objectives of reducing suffocation rates, the objectives of improving good working conditions, the objectives of reducing indirect taxes in favour of fairer direct taxes, all have collapsed. We have inability to access the markets. We have a thousand seizures every day. At least 2.6 billion is owed by the State, and for months now it should have paid the private sector its obligations. The development law applies thirty-two months and a euro has not been disbursed to the private sector. The unfair indirect taxes increased 4.1 billion euros from '14 to '18', while direct taxes between '14 and '18 remained the same unchanged. All this is summed up as a way of dealing with the budget you are asking to vote on, calling for a 2% growth and a 4% surplus, while calling for a 4% growth and a 2% surplus. This whole story, all this failure cannot bring our own vote to this budget, which reserves at the end of the SYRIZA government's term of office, in 2019, a weak comfort to certain benefits that are necessary to the Greek people, which has been deprived of much, but which these benefits - and here is a difference worth thinking about - do not come from the country's wealth birth, they do not come from growth, they come from a reduction in the level of those who still have to endure their tax obligations. The aim is not to reduce the level and draw the kneeling Greece upwards. The aim is to increase the level of economic growth by increasing the economic level of the Greeks and Greeks to improve the economic supply to the weak, in such a way that, in reality, the prosperous work of growth itself can do so, and those who cannot monitor this side of the welfare of development being supported by the state by mechanisms provided for. These mechanisms will not reduce the level by kneeling everyone, but will correct the level upwards so that the social grocery store and the social pharmacy will come to the normal grocery store and the normal pharmacy. So because you insist that you do not understand why Greece has ceased to be Pseudomonas, but to close the eye on a new Pseudomonas, which you intend to impose, we must vote against your budget as a whole, insisting on the old good recipe for growth, investment, good jobs, which the 19 elections will give an opportunity for a new government to bring them into the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being followed by the bottom-up theories, after it has been toured in the report of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and the way this House organises and operates, a delegation from the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection of the European Parliament, which will then take part in a joint meeting of the Special Standing Committee on European Affairs, the Standing Committee on Production and Trade and the Standing Committee on Public Administration, the Public Order and Justice of the Parliament of the Greeks. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with SYRIZA Maria Triantafel.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. I think that Mr Tassoulos a moment ago used the invocation to support, in fact, or rather to strengthen the view that there was a success story after the end of the Civil War in Greece, a success story that is of his resignation. He tried to defend this party, mentioning McNeill and Rallie. There was, you said, an economic miracle between this 1953-1963. However, there was another picture in Greece, an image that says that if we now have an inability to access the market, then there was an inability to access even to education for a large part of the Greek people, an image that says that in those years, unfortunately, a large part of the Greek people were in exile. Although many of what has been said by the honourable Member earlier are elements which we need to discuss - and I am talking about overtaxation, but not just - I think there is a gap. This success store once stopped and we see that 2010 was the bankruptcy of this country. I think that we need to look very seriously and without polarisation to see what the causes are. The causes exist in the system itself, and I think we should discover them, discuss them and heal them. So it was tabled and the last budget, in fact, of this government, will be voted on tomorrow. Let me remind you that the government's constitutional term is over and in 2019 there will be elections. So this budget is being submitted at a critical historical juncture for both Greece and Europe. The rise of the extreme right-wing parties and the backwardness of democratic ideas at European Union level is the point and the conflict that determines political developments within the European continent. Over the past few years democracy and politics have been on the margin, while strict discipline and commitment to bureaucracy have dominated and rebuild a step - step by step - European social achievements. Generalised discontent gave birth to political representation crises and to the rise of extreme racist and neo-fascist perceptions. At the same time, a displacement of forces is increasingly observed and new planetary hegemonies emerge. The West, as a benchmark, is declining and increasing the economic, cultural and philosophical influence of the countries of the East, especially China. This evolution changes the world puzzle. It causes geopolitical reclassifications and restores the terms on an international scale. Europe is called upon to find its footsteps and to return to its identities so that it will again be the important social force with its own particular elements, with the revival of the social state and the defence of democratic freedoms against hatred and intolerance. And within this climate, you are afflicting the division, after you have been arsonizing - arsonists - statements at the most critical turning point of the European Union, at a crucial turning point for the country. You're talking about privileges, you're talking about traitors, and I'd say it's right-wing and the wood tongue, even though you're charging them to the Left. I would say that you do not understand how dangerous these are, and I would say that today - I am referring to the Centre, to the powers of the Centre - when a black front is formed, which states that the European Union itself, both for our country and for Europe, is fully united. "For a place in the sun", in my opinion, equal distances are not enough. At this stage, therefore, the Greek Government gave all tons of its own battle to defend democracy and European cohesion itself with initiatives and proposals on national and international issues. Skopje's resolution penetrates the whole political sphere and around it unfolds two political positions. On the one hand, it is the attitude of SYRIZA, national confidence, peace, coexistence of the Balkan peoples, real patriotism. On the other hand, it is the attitude of the New Democracy party, of fear, of insecurity, of economic failures, of nationalism, of defeat. I would say that, unfortunately, such behaviour occurs to hide sometimes dark political routes. So there is today's budget. I have to say that a lot has already been said about economic sizes, how it was before and how it was after the economic landscape. It was said about unemployment that you took it to 9%, less than 10%, and took it to 28%, that 25% of GDP was lost, that the debt came from 120% to 180%, that wages and all. I think, however, that we should now determine whether this budget actually submitted can create a strand of hope and we should explain - as is always the case in the budgets - the previous ones and see if there is any prospect. There are twelve positive measures - the most important positive measures - which stand out in this budget: the non-implementation of the measure of the cut-off of main and supplementary pensions, the reduction of HPAI in mid-term, 10% of which will benefit only small property holders, not totalling EUR 150,000, the reduction of a third of the main rate of insurance for freelance professionals, self-employed and farmers, and the application of a minimum income base for subsidiary insurance and one-off payment, the grant of a housing allowance to households who pay rent or a instalment of housing loan with income and property, the reduction of a dividend of 15% to 10%, the reduction of a tax for businesses from 29% to 28%, the grant of insurance contributions to new workers, the recruitment of four and a special staff to the special scheme for special treatment, the permanentisation of more than three thousand workers for the 'Boystem' programme, and the application of a number of one-year-year-on-one-one-year-year-year-old households. Is it just enough to reconstitute the social state? Obviously not. There has been a lot of discussion about the production model, what perceptions and with what economy the country will develop a more competitive way on the international scene. Is it just the reduction of taxation or the tested recipe for redundancies and cuts? Of course not. Whenever the social fabric has been applied, the economy has been dissolved and the economy has been dismantled. Greece experienced this with the choices of Samaras and Venizelos, who dismantled the middle class and completely destabilized the country. So, away from these two stereotype concepts, we need to think about orientation and about where the Greek economy should turn. We need to think both as a political system and as citizens how the Greek economy can become more competitive and modern. We need to produce and create wealth, we need reasoned interventions. It has been said again and I think it is a plausible phrase: we need a success story for popular classes. I think that in a Europe with so many problems, in a Europe in which neo-fascism dominates and I would say that they have...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u188	Close, Mrs. Triantafel.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u189	I shall close immediately, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. I think that Greece should, once again, become the example. In this context, the existing Left, SYRIZA, entered the real track of class struggles of the role of a national force outlet of the country. We're a national force outlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u190	Mr Athanasios Davakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for several days now, we have heard various interests in this Chamber from colleagues from SYRIZA and ANEL about the fact that we here represent the New Democracy party. SYRIZA claims that he represents and shares - to use just the words of his speakers - in favour of the classly weaker Greeks, while the New Democracy represents the interests of the elite, the few and the powerful. The recent colleague and sympathetic, Mrs Triantafyllou, said, ladies and gentlemen, the right-wing privilege is division and the wooden language. He said, and also that we are here to prolong fear, insecurity and selfishness. The New Democracy, this great popular party, represents the interests of many, represents the interests of all those who, according to the ancient tendency of the Greek people, want to overcome themselves, want to change their destiny, want to become better, want to create a favorable perspective for themselves for their children. That's what this party represents. It is not enclosed in class insures and in class forms to create and articulate the theorem and narrative of left ideology. It is the party that gives the right, the opportunity, to the child of the farmer and the worker to come and speak from this Step. It is the party that gives children of all Greeks the right to move forward on the basis of moral principles, based on dignity, labour and credibility. This is the New Democracy line over time. This faction deserves more respect than you, because it has a long history and all those elements, which make it proud of this work, which has spent so many years in this place. As far as the budget is concerned, the four-year ANEL - SYRIZA budgets can, in my view, be divided into three sections: these are the budgets that the SYRIZA promised, but it did not. They're the ones who did, but they didn't promise. It is also the budget that it promises today, but it will not be implemented. We all remember what had been said, this whole rhetoric, the pre-government ANEL - SYRIZA - period: the Thessaloniki programmes, the 13th and 14th pensions, the abolition of HISPIA. All that sounds a little superfluous now - and I would say - and without meaning, but that is the basis, which you have taken from the vote and you are a government...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u192	In September we had elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u193	Since January 2015, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u194	I don't want a dialogue with the ministers, nor do the Ministers with the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u195	Yeah, but I'm interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u196	Do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u197	You tend to zero the shorter of time. You, in the Prime Minister's view, are running a hundred days. I believe that in January 2015, the Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, and you, his assistant, were your chief.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u198	In September we had elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u199	Yes, but there was also January 2015...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u200	Mr Davaki, please do not address the Minister and the Minister to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u201	Yes, but there was January 2015, which we are paying today. Instead, twenty-nine new taxes have been applied, pensions have been cut, especially widow’s pensions, the reproach for which must be redundant to the government’s financial staff, the destruction of public investment and the posting of payments. We read in the press that over-excession reached eleven months of EUR 3.5 billion, while we have been behind spending at 3.3 billion. The primary surplus, in other words, ladies and gentlemen, of the budget was escalated to EUR 7.6 billion. What I would like to add to these few that we are forced by the time to say is that the explosive mixture, which prevails in the Greek region, will be irreversible in some time. There is a climate of insecurity due to the great infractionality of various violation groups. It has become the Greek people of the Greek region of racism against our fellow citizens, against our fellow citizens, who are constantly violating, giving the right to various other marginal and extra-institutional groups to arrange for these security issues. At the same time, as far as the issue of our farmers is concerned, subsidies are now set on the basis of the problems of forest maps. The political leadership of the Ministry of Agriculture must look at this in particular. Furthermore, the Ministry must also see the issues of compensation, as does the question of the ELGA regulation. Finally, the regulations of the ELGA are not the plates of Moses. The ELGA regulation, on the basis of which subsidies are granted and all that they need, needs to be formulated in the light of local circumstances as appropriate. There's got to be a change. The ELGA regulation changed in 2012, unfortunately, with very small steps. I'd say he's becoming more tax-based. In Laconia, there is the issue of acarpia, the wood, overtaxation and an increase in production costs. This is well known to all the regional colleagues. What about this matter? It's not a question you should just look at it. I understand that there was before. It has not changed anything and the situation is at stake. There are also issues relating to education. We are dealing with school transport on the basis of Mr Gavroglou's committee, which recommended it a long time ago. Schools are being transported, which have a great deal to do with the demand of local society, with full - I would say - clearly and firmly based on scientific needs have been created in many areas, such as Sparta and are being transferred to other areas near Athens, such as Tripoli. These are paranoid things. You need to look at these very carefully. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying that on 24 October I tabled a question to the Minister of Defence, Mr Kammenos, concerning forty-five questions, which correspond to eighteen announcements made by the last three, four years of his term of office at the Ministry of Defence. He replied to me with the publication of the Ministry of National Defence, which is published every year and mentions the current actions of the Ministry, which have nothing to do with the political announcements of the Minister of National Defence, such as the revenues of the real estate exploitation of the Ministry of National Defence, what has been done with the authorisation of April 28 from the Ministry of Defence to the Minister for the upgrading of F-16. No knowledge. No point of view. What about the big investment in the Fleves, which would give 100 million euros to the Navy General Staff, when the Minister goes to the Naval Testing School and says 'I will put on my salary for our fleet'?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u202	Mr. Davakis, I can't let you talk more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, I'll be in five seconds. Also, what about the various contracts, which he had found in drawers - he said - and which are no place today? All this shows who the Prime Minister's interlocutor and partner is. And all this shows that all these unconscious announcements and unprecedented announcements create huge problems in a major sector that the Greek state administrations are the men and women of our Armed Forces, but also all these weapon systems which ensure the integrity and territorial independence of our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Davakis, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u205	In a short time, the Greek people will respond to everything that all colleagues have said in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not pleasant for the President-in-Office to interrupt you. But you must respect the next ones who go up to the Step. I'll be here for three hours. I have no reason to be unpleasant. But all Members must speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u207	You are very strict, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u208	Not with you. I'm with everyone. That is the mandate that we received from the President of Parliament today at the Conference of Presidents so that we can finish tomorrow in time. The Minister, Mrs. Koudura, has the floor for ten minutes. Please, you too, keep up the schedule.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, 2019 is the year - station for Greece. Our country has long recovered control and responsibility for planning its future. The 2019 budget is the first after the successful exit from the memorandum, the first after many years without new austerity measures, the first to lead our country to a new era of high growth and prosperity. It is the year when the Greek people will see the labors and sacrifices of the last ten years to find a reflection, a commitment to the Greek citizens we have made to the full. We have achieved a great deal in the last four years, because we have worked collectively and led the economy to a positive growth rate, at the highest in the last decade, of over 2%. Our economy has gained new momentum, which is reflected in the steady improvement of all individual economic indicators. We claimed Greece's international strategic role. We have earned the trust of foreign markets. We've recovered our credibility. All international bodies have recognised the significant progress in achieving budgetary objectives, the return to normality and stability, the relaunch of our national economy. We achieved a decade-old record in foreign direct investment that increased over 27% in 2017 and a continuous historical record in exports. We drastically reduced unemployment from the negative record of 28% in 2014 by ten points to 18% this year. We've increased employment. More than three hundred thousand new jobs have been created over the last four years. We restored injustices, as we committed ourselves. We have ensured access for all our uninsured fellow citizens to public health. We have introduced measures to support the weak, already since 2015 with the first humanitarian crisis bill. We supported public schools and the creation of new kindergartens. We've reduced the charges of the insured. We rescued the insurance system. We've reinstated collective labour contracts. With the budget area that we have created, we have ensured for the third consecutive year the distribution of social dividends to our three and a half million fellow citizens. The new budget, which we are asked to vote on, brings only positive measures, measures with a developmental character, but also a clear social sign, so that Greeks and Greeks can constantly see improvement in their everyday lives in the coming years. For the first time, after almost a decade, there will be increases in wages and pensions. Not only have we prevented pension cuts, but six hundred and twenty thousand pensioners will see an increase in their pension from January 1, 2019. In addition, we reduce HISPIA and insurance contributions for freelance professionals, we support youth access to the labour market, we upgrade the 'Help at home' service with the recruitment of new employees, while we proceed to reduce corporate taxation by 1% every year for the next four years. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the first government to recognise the value of tourism and its decisive contribution as a powerful driving force for growth, economic and social progress and prosperity. With our strategy and with a specific plan in four years, we increased more than 35% incoming tourism in 2015-2018, with an annual growth rate of twice as high as the average global tourism development. We have responded directly and effectively to very difficult challenges and adverse conditions. We overthrowed the negative picture that had been created for our country during the crisis and secured a continuous upward trend by achieving the highest performance in the history of Greek tourism. We made Greece a champion in world tourism. We have designed a single policy at national and regional level with a core of sustainable, balanced and fair tourist development. We have achieved a continuous record of arrivals - nine million extra international visitors in absolute numbers in four years - but also a record of all time in revenue and in all tourist sizes. 2018 is the best year in the history of Greek tourism with arrivals that will touch the thirty-three million along with the cruise and with nearly 2 billion more revenues than 2017. Our target for tourism three hundred sixty-five days a year in Greece became a reality. The spectacular tourist development we have mobilized is reflected in the economic performance of the tourist industry, the increase in turnover and profitability, as well as in the significant investments it has generated. Nearly fifty thousand beds have been added to the country's workforce in high-grade units over the past three years and a new wave of investment by domestic and foreign investors is under way. At the same time, the high performance of our tourism has attracted growth and all the productive sectors, which are directly or indirectly linked to tourism, such as transport, retail trade, focus and food, primary production, construction and property. We have sought and strengthened our institutional representation in the global tourism decision-making centres. We have been elected a member of the Executive Board of the World Tourism Organisation and took over the vice-presidentship of the OECD Tourism Commission for 2019. All international operators, as well as global tourism organisations, have publicly described Greece as "a model of tourism development" and have enjoyed our successful tourism policy as an example that other countries can follow for their development. In 2019 we continue even more vigorously with a specific tourism development plan and has been included in the national development strategy. Our aim is to continue the strong upwards of Greek tourism in the years to come, to encourage new investment and to create new growth opportunities in each region and destination of the country, so that the benefits can be diffused in all local communities. Following a series of legislative interventions to modernise the tourism sector and support the domestic tourism market, we recently adopted the first integrated institutional framework in Greece for the development, organisation and supervision of activity in thematic tourism. We have opened the way to create new jobs and new businesses with new objects, extended areas of professional activity and to respond to global trends, with emphasis on genuine experiences where Greece can lead. In 2019, we complete the overall reform to modernise and upgrade public tourist education. And don't forget that we opened the Athens Tours School in 2017 and 2019, faithful to our commitments. We are strengthening the role and work in all our educational structures with a bill that we will be tabling over the next three-year period, while implementing in-depth programmes for the education of unemployed and seasonal workers for the first time in ten cities across the country. Our priority is to continue and based on international standards of high-level training of human resources, which confers great value on our tourism product. I would like to warmly thank my colleagues and the officials of the Ministry of Tourism and EOT, as well as all the co-operating ministers with whom I worked closely and contributed to this great success of tourism. We have created a solid group and very effective, working for the national interest focusing on human beings. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in front of a very great opportunity. With the leaps we have made to the development of our country and to what we plan for the coming years, tourism can bring immediate new economic benefits to Greece. It will create new growth prospects and new jobs in all professional activities and especially for our young and young people who are the future of our country. I urge you to vote in favour of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u210	Mr. Amanatidis, Mr. Placiotakis and Mr. Stoyannides will be followed. Then I give the floor to Mr Spirtzi and Mr Gregorakos, Mr Mumulides, Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, and then another Minister will follow. Here, Mr Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not used to commenting on speeches by colleagues. However, I was very impressed by the speech made by my colleague from New Democracy, Mr Tassoula, who, with a parallelism, the least I can call it, is unfortunate. He paralleled the positions that SYRIZA has at the moment and we are talking about the plight of the old system and about the scandals that exist, with what the dictatorship of the old vicious system has said, so that it can be imposed. And he read us all down from Mr. Rally's book to document for the previous period. It did not, however, bother to substantiate and tell us what is due to Mr Samaras' success story, which is reheated again either here in the Chamber or at the New Democracy conference. To me, ladies and gentlemen, there is the absence of the strategy in what it wants - and speakers from the New Democracy have referred to - for New Democracy to be a great popular party. This cannot be done because there is the absence of a strategy, a programme for the next day and what it does right now is to have the look on its inside. Thus, it cannot give way to the problems of Greek society. It is not attractive and does not convince the reheated success story you serve because of your internal balance. So why, since everything was well, did the second programme not close, the last evaluation of the second programme and brought forward the election of the President of the Republic? The question has an answer, for precisely why did the New Democracy then invest in the left-hand parentheses and knew that it could not close the programme with the policy it had over the last period. You invested in left parentheses, but you didn't get left parentheses. Secondly, with a look inside you, you are dealing with national issues and while you say you want to unite, you do everything to divide the Greeks by investing in the lies that may bring you temporary micropolitical benefits. But the defence of national interests needs responsibility and seriousness. With regard to the Macedonian issue, in July 2017 in the pre-date debate on the Cyprus issue Mr.Mitsotakis admits that in 2007 and 2008, he uses it as an anti-professional to Mr. Kammenos that the official position, which the government had, is the complex name by geographical definition prior to the word "Macedonia" that will apply to all, erga omnes, for all internal and international uses. I'll give it back to you in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Amanatidis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] From that position of July to now, the New Democracy, in addition to the rhetoric it has used, has not yet told us what its position is, what its position on this matter is. The second question, the most serious, is this: If the agreement is passed, will it be abolished? And do not tell me, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the argument that the agreement has just been passed and that it has international effects which you cannot achieve. Then what results has our country had since 1977 for the Macedonian language, where we simply add that it is southern Slavic? Isn't that where it worked for forty years? What results have also been achieved in the interim agreement? Doesn't that work? It can't be anyway. You can't be with the policeman and the ranger, as they used to call it before. You only express fear. You consider our country's position to be degraded. On the contrary, our country's position was upgraded, either by the meetings and the visits of the Greek Prime Minister, but also by foreign presidents and high-ranking states - they came to the country - either with the tripartite and quadripartite agreements or with the regional conferences. Even with our position within the European Union, our country's position is upgraded. She's the one who guarantees the fastest growth when you have a good place in the world. Thirdly, which I have heard all this famous, because most of the other things have been said by both the ministers and colleagues. We don't do class politics, NYPD, you say. You don't do class politics and you do politics for everyone. Then, you must explain to us before you put the underpaid wage, because, while you are in favour of the free economy, with the 2012 cabinet act, you downloaded the basic salary in the name of competitiveness, which destroyed society and did not bring jobs. Because you said 'we will go down for young people and therefore the employers, since we believe, will run to recruit young people', so unemployment from 8% to 10% will reach 28%. So you should explain to us, since you do not have a class policy, because you have abolished collective and sectoral contracts. You should explain to us why you reduced spending on education that was half a percent for research. You have to explain why you have brought - and fortunately it has not been implemented and the government's change has been made - the law - 'loving' for the evaluation of civil servants. Now you're in hug with Verber. Explain to the world about insurance. Say you want the capitalist system clear to see who will vote for you from the insured and the old and the younger. So tell us about the funding of the municipalities that you want from the ENPIA. You said 2,000 euros for the new couples. Yes, sir. Isn't that a provision? I agree it's right. What is it that young people want now? Jobs. We have now reduced unemployment. You raised her. They want jobs well paid and, of course, a new production model. Minister for Finance, ladies and gentlemen, this is the last budget in the first four years of the SYRIZA government, because the second one will follow. The Greek people will trust us again. It will trust us and will not allow us to reinstate those who have brought us into bankruptcy by applying biased policies for the few, the possessors and the occupants, leaving them to the margins of many and society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Kozani High School (first Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Ioannis Pakisotakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing these days the last Memorandum of Understanding of the most ineffective, irresponsible and dangerous government, which the place has known since the reintegration to date. A government that deceived the Greek people, continues to lie unreservedly before the Greek people and target anyone who stands up against the will of its officials, calling him fascist, extreme, marginal. The question, however, that dominates the Greek citizens, is after the country left the memorials, why have you been waiting for months for the response of yesterday's troikas, which, of course, have now become your partners to approve the budget? You celebrate the pension cut, when you have gone to seventeen pension cuts and imposed on the Greek people twenty-nine tax increases, when you have committed the Greek economy by 2060, with primary surpluses of 3.5% by 2022, and of course, as his " mentor" Mr. Tsipras said, Mr. Alavanos, you have delivered almost all of the public property and cultural heritage in the management of an organization controlled by foreigners. All of this, ladies and gentlemen of the government, testify that you have not released the country from the memorials, as you referred to in Thessaloniki, but that you have chained it up and delivered it for the next hundred years, under the supervision of Madam Merkel and the financial constituencies of Brussels. Ladies and gentlemen, in support of my claim, I will mention a few more elements to describe the stagnation of the Greek economy today. According to the report of the World Bank “DOING BUSINESS 2019”, Greece records a new deterioration in the business environment. Also, according to the global economic forum, the Greek economy holds the last place among the twenty-nine more developed economies in the world, according to the index of fair growth. According to the survey, Greece should prioritise the reform of its educational system in order to achieve the reduction of differences between students from different educational systems and socio-economic environments. And because they see us young children, today's rulers are dominated by Paleo-Communist ideas in Greece and of course our dominant theme is asylum in universities and whether or not the violation of "Rubicon" in the building of the Philosophy School of EKP. At the same time, of course, it remains the only country in which non-governmental, non-profit and private universities are not allowed to be established, even in Cuba and North Korea. This is the situation of the educational system in Greece today. Of course, I will refer to the figures published last week by EUROSTAT, which put tombstones in the last myth of the Left and SYRIZA officials for the social state. The figures show that Greek pockets have been dried and that Greece is in the third category of the euro area in terms of consumption, but also per capita GDP. I think we all understand that the Greek economy is not moving in the right direction. The Greek economy remains uncompetitive, unattractive for foreign investors. With reasonable and practical SYRIZA what major investor dare risk and invest in Greece? When investment is literally criminalised in this country and when obstacles are created to prevent certain investments from being implemented, you should know that there is no prospect. I have heard here the childish argument that unemployment has gone to 21.7% this year. Watch out, when you load the public with poster, you have created slavery for young workers, who work uninsured and paid for four hours, while working 12 and creating a subsidised type of new flexible jobs, this is a payroll for the workers. And here is our difference, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - ANEL. You tax what moves and literally put thousands of workers in hostages by offering them nothing but allowances, while we in the New Democracy aspire to create many new jobs and well-paid jobs. And how's that gonna happen? With a reduction in contributions, with a reduction in taxation, with an increase in the liquidity of the Greek economy. Let me say two words about Greek shipping, although I do not have much to say, because nothing has happened. Greek shipping in the previous four years of governance SYRIZA - ANEL looks like a ship that runs through harmless passages. Only two elements: transport equivalent. A fragmented subsidy measure, with an arbitrary exclusion of areas. And why did it happen? To throw ashes into the islands' eyes, because we have abolished the reduced rates of VAT. It is obviously not part of an integrated programme to tackle island policy. Here, ladies and gentlemen, a sectoral programme is needed to promote island cohesion, by exploiting funding from European programmes, from the European Investment Bank and, of course, from Community funds. What I also wanted to point out is that the EUR 200 million secured by the previous government for the support of the Port House, so that it can fulfil its mission, are literally at risk of being lost. We're talking about 200 million euros. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At the close of my speech, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on a reversal of the Prime Minister's speech beforehand: 'They have undermined the dignity and pride of the Greeks. We've recovered it. They transformed Greece into a jungle of international developments. We are the leader of the Balkans and the Eastern Mediterranean," said Mr Tsipras. Mr. Tsipras, do you really believe all this? As you probably suffered memory loss, I should remind you that the recession had begun to deviate and the first positive signs had appeared in the Greek economy. In relation to what you have said, regarding the emergence of Greece in leaders' power in the Balkans, but also in south-eastern Europe, you have certainly turned it into a pig of international developments. Why? Because the Greek people do not forget that you have literally turned Greece into a clear vine with the management of the immigration-refugee issue and you have succeeded in isolating Greece from the countries of Visegrad.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Placiotakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u215	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Also, should we talk about the sale of Macedonia? Mr. Tsipras, the Skopje entered a negotiation without any negotiating power, and they took everything away from you. You received the ticket for their country's membership of NATO and the European Union, and you also granted Macedonian language and Macedonian ethnicity. Are you proud of this? In conclusion, I would like to say that the 2019 Memorandum of Understanding continues to be in the wrong direction, provides for more taxes and does not guarantee the country's development perspective. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I will vote against the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, may I have the floor for a few seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u217	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u218	I would like to say that all the budgets of all the European countries are approved by the European Union, and it is not a sign that the memorandum continues, that ours has been adopted. The same goes for all European budgets. It is good to know the European context, to know how the debate is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u219	Mr. Stoyannides will now be speaking. Immediately after Mr Spirtz and then we will go back to three colleagues plus Mr Psirianos, who is one of them as a priority, who did not speak the first day, because he was on a committee. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the 2019 budget. In the budget that we are debating today, you will not find any real measures. The budget we are debating is the first Memorandum of Understanding. The Ministry of Labour has launched and implemented sectorally as the first quarter of 2019 11 new budget programmes of 632 million EUR, with a total of eighty-eight thousand citizens benefiting. Let's see some measures, including the 2019 budget: rental subsidy from EUR 70 to EUR 210 per month. This measure will support up to three hundred thousands of families who either live in a rented house or are charged with the cost of serving a first home housing loan. A few months ago we legislated to abolish the provision that provided for reductions in the personal difference in pensions from 2019. Let me remind you that the personal difference was established by Law No.4387/2016. After six months the International Monetary Fund has forced us to legislate on the personal difference in pensions. When we legislated on personal differences, we proved that we do not want to reduce the pensions already, if the recalculation of pensions would lead to a reduction in pensions for some pensioners. The International Monetary Fund has forced us to legislate on the personal difference. We, when we legislated on this measure, confessed that it was unfair and we would try to change it before it was implemented. Time has justified us. The measure has been cancelled. The New Democracy - they are all absent now - is probably very tired of following the budget debate - was terrorizing pensioners for the whole of 2018. In 2019, the gradual reduction of the EMS is up to 30%. I would remind you that the ETUC was legislated on the days that New Democracy and PASOK ruled. The New Democracy blames us for 'deploring' measures which we have adopted. That's right. 'We shall be voting for' measures which we have had to legislate on by lenders, measures which we do not believe are unfair. 'We shall be voting for measures which the New Democracy has voted on, but which have not been abolished. We have been abolishing since 2019 the subordinate wages that New Democracy along with PASOK and the People's Orthodox Alert have legislated. I didn't hear them say a single word about it. I know that New Democracy fully agrees with the underpaid wage for young people under the age of twenty-five. The Minister of Labour at the end of January 2019 will announce the increase in the minimum wage, which New Democracy in 2012 along with PASOK and the People's Orthodox Alert at the 6th Ministerial Council Act with a mandate - and not elected - Prime Minister Lucas Papademos reduced from EUR 751 to EUR 586 and for young people under the age of twenty-five to EUR 510. Since September 2018, the Government has mandatoryly declared a number of sectoral collective labour agreements, allowing thousands of private sector workers to see very significant increases in their wages. We hear many times former ministers and Members of the New Democracy beat us to think that part-time and flexible forms of work have increased over the current government. Let me remind you that all laws on parttime work and flexible forms of employment have been legislated by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. The new Republic Governments have reduced their positions by two hundred in labour inspectorates. The current government strengthens labour inspectors and even legislated stricter penalties for those employers who block control over their businesses and protects them from employers' terrorism. Last week from the Step of the House, we heard Mr Mitsotakis telling us that the lenders agreed to abolish the measure of reducing the personal difference in pensions, because the government was backing the issue of Macedonian. He accused the Government that the cancellation of the pension reduction measure was a product of transaction and, in exchange, we retreated into national matters. So if what he claims believes is true, why did he and his party vote in favour of the pension provision? Evidently his actions run counter to his words. I'm really not happy with this image of Officer Opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 budget is the first non-remembrary budget of the current government. Other budgets will be followed with governments whose main body SYRIZA and Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras will be the main minister. You in the New Democracy keep counting the days you're away from the government. If these days are more than a thousand four hundred today, make sure you get over two thousand days. I urge you to vote in favour of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u221	Minister Spirtzis has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. I would first like to condemn the bombing at the SKAI television station, an attack on democracy. I believe that the condemnation of us who have disagreed and our wholehearted support to workers and journalists has its own special value and meaning. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the first out of the Memorandum of Understanding of the Government of Alexis Tsipras. There will be many more and we will prove that. It is worthwhile in such a process to discuss our vision, our medium-term objectives and to make a small regression, in order to draw all our conclusions to the country and to Europe as a whole, that is, how neoliberal dogmatisms, policies that have been implemented for decades, how the policies of what you have been saying so many years - the conservative party and the sovereign forces in Europe - have been competitive through the reduction of labour costs, that is, the life of citizens, the social state, have brought Europe into a social, economic and political deadlock, to a crisis. We see all the results throughout Europe, the deadlocks, the extreme right, the conditions of the Middle War. If in December 2015, in December 2016, in December 2016, Euclides or a government minister said that we would have gone out in December 2018 from the memoranda, that pensions would be increased, that there would have been support for the social state, that projects that had been afflicted by the country for decades and left behind the development and the citizens, if we said they would have started new projects that would have been announced for decades only as a dream, if we said that our country would have structures, a plan for productive reconstruction, voice and respect from the international community, would have accepted the obscurity, mud and mocking of counterpopulation and its friendly interests and the media. And we would hear what we hear today: the request for elections and the dream of Officerial Opposition to leave the government of Alexis Tsipras. What should we want to do first? We were listening to the 'left parenthesis', that we were going to collapse every month, that the 'cutter' is being activated, that we did not close any evaluations in every negotiation that was made, that we did not get the targets, that the third pension would not be granted again next year, that there would be no social dividends, that we would not finish the projects, that we would start new, that we would not get out of the memorandum, that we would not be able to maintain pensions until this year. This year, however, we also had an incredible slip in this agony of Officerial Opposition and its companions, that these, they say, were made in a bazaar with the Skopje Agreement. He doesn't even need to comment. I would just like to say that he did not give them to us, colleagues of the New Democracy, someone who is given to the Greek people. From the sweat of the Greek people also came out of a wise policy that respects this people, its sacrifices, every citizen, their problems. You can't and you don't want to understand it. What can we do? Today we are able to say that we have implemented what we committed ourselves to. We are able to say that the sacrifices of the Greek people were not lost. We are able to say that we can now start with the Greek people implementing policies that we want, which we believe, which we propose for our country and for Europe. We are able to say that we can now build a social state, productive structures, implement policies that are permeated by social justice, by solidarity, by what we say we are faithful to our principles and values, to our services to our people and to the citizens, by implementing its dreams - step by step. But let's go to the Ministry of Infrastructure. The two aspects that hit those who wanted the country's collapse and its commitment to political, institutional, social and economic levels with the implementation of the remaining decades of projects and the preparation and implementation of new projects were, firstly, the brakes on the country's deflation, the further increase in unemployment, the loss of other national wealth than what New Democracy has achieved, and secondly, the building of the country's credibility in the European institutions, in the international banking system. The timetables were respected, we kept what we had committed to the completion of projects, which the country never had. We are discussing the budget that has achieved three very critical targets. Firstly, he should be financially acceptable. Secondly, he should be rewarding to the sacrifices of the Greek people, incorporating all the relief measures announced by the Prime Minister. And thirdly, it must be developmental, because, apart from measures to alleviate and strengthen the private economy, it includes and maintains a programme of public investment aimed at completing the major networks, the country's contribution to the development and modernisation of combined infrastructure with our Balkan neighbours, the implementation of a wide range of social infrastructure and interventions to limit the consequences of natural disasters and a disastrous policy that did not allow infrastructure to be completed. I will thank Kostas Karamanlis for his good words today. We've done too much work. I'm going to pity him to someone we're going to say next. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to record, with a brief account, the targets we have set a year before and the planning that will follow to support local societies, healthy productive forces, fair growth, infrastructure integration, since many tools have been opened for the country since the three and a half-year policy that we have implemented. To have a clear picture, our goal is in the first half of 2019 to have EUR 6.8 billion compatible projects, certainly over 6 billion and in 2019 to have reached EUR 9.17 billion. Fortunately, in the negotiations that took place on the new ESDP, for the new programme period for infrastructure we have almost double what the Samara Government had negotiated in previous years. In the next few days, the southern part of the motorway of central Greece, E65, comes for ratification in Parliament, since the negotiations on its funding have gone ahead. The Sepolis subjugation began. It finishes the metro of Thessaloniki this year and enters a test run and a few months later the extension for Kalamaria begins. In the first days of January 2019, it is introduced for ratification of the airport of Kastelli and the House is obviously informed about the completion of the Patras - Tower motorway contracts. The first phase of the competitive procedures for the northern road axis of Crete and for the line 4 of the metro was completed. It finally ends, despite the technical difficulties, the railway link between Athens and Thessaloniki. The competitive process is completed and the Aktio-Ambracia competitions are launched. Kalamata - Rizzomylos - Pylos - Methoni and Chalkida bypass are auctioned. Of course, Mr Karamanlis is right in his comment that we are completing what others have started. And how can we not do that? The motorway of Athens-Thessalonica was launched in 1960, the railroad from World War II, the concessions for the last sixteen years, the road of Mesaras, several other years, Kastelli, Triasios, the Gonnos camp, the BOAK, the Railroad Egnatia, Chalkida, Kalamata, had announced them by the Mesopolian War. How, then, did we not complete the projects that had been under way for sixty years and not just completed, but not even half had they been reached? We have a huge list of anti-military works and their timetable, which I'm tabling. [[At this point, Minister Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the list referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] Mr. Karamanlis, to make projects, you have to have studies, or you have to give billions of damages, just like you've done for decades. I'm going to say two numbers because there's been criticism of urban transport. One million personalized cards came out with the online ticket and five hundred thousand unpersonalized. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I need a minute more, Mr President. I won't report all the projects. The whole world knows about it, we've made it in press releases. But I would like to make a few comments by closing down. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, if one of us dared to say "we want to end with the New Democracy not only about what it does, but about what it thinks", you know very well what would have happened and what we would have heard. Your President told you at your conference a few days ago and it turns out how affected by extreme right philosophy you were. I want to close by saying you're yesterday, you're the old one, and unfortunately you're unrepentant. You cannot and do not want to understand how the national sovereignty you have delivered has been recovered by the end of the memorandum. You cannot understand how the country's credibility was gained, how it was really negotiated, how the things we committed were kept on both sides. You can't and you don't want to understand how you build relationships with international organisations, with investors, when you complete works and competitions, when you're okay with what you're committed for. It was never historically...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u223	Minister, finish it up. We said for a minute and you've reached two. He doesn't have any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u224	I shall conclude, Mr President. There will be no progressive party and the left-wing political force, which divided society, the one that dragged to persecution and imprisonment, the one that filled with millions of citizens the courts, prisons and the landslides. It was not the progressive party or the Left who used public works as a tool of waste, opacity and inefficiency. It was not, it is not, nor will the progressive party or the Left who, in its days, left millions of Greeks for abroad, who have led our young people to leave the country, without any support and without registration.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u225	Please, Minister, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u226	It was not and will not be extrapolated from the closed borders, the xenophobia, the condemnation of northern Greece to mary and deportation. It wasn't and it's not going to be the party that built political careers in fake ethnicism, in areas like the Eye you said before...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u227	Minister, I'll turn off the microphone. I've been a trade unionist myself, and I'm "finishing it in half a minute", I've said it and I know it. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u228	You're right, Mr. President. The citizens know, the Greek people do not forget, and today's budget is the first of many to follow with left-wing governments, the progressive party with Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u229	The turn is this. Next is Mr. Gregorakos, Mr. Psarianos, as I said, because on the first day he was in committee, Mr. Mumulides, Mr. Varvitsiotis. There has been an internal change between the ministers and Mrs Gerovas will speak instead of Mr Kaloger. Mr. Gregoraco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what did my ears hear? Mr. Dendia, did you hear that? Because I have increased hearing. Mr. Spirtzis thanked Constantine Karamanlis the youngest, the current MP. He said he's done all right. I hope you'll answer it yourself or answer it yourself. Ladies and gentlemen, I am watching the House and I have seen all of SYRIZA's colleagues beating. No one spoke to us about the 100 billion that cost us the third memorandum. And the fourth Memorandum follows. If you continue the same policy of "Tsipras, give it all", Greece will go with mathematical accuracy on the rocks. Ladies and gentlemen, you are mathematically leading the country to disaster if you continue with the policy I have heard before. And you drive it because you lie a lot and you're arrogant. I would like to say, however, two words about what happened at 'SCAI' at dawn. People who believe in political violence think they are serving moral values - that is why they are very dangerous, because they do not understand the difference of violence - values that they think are superior to the lives of any man, any being, and that is dangerous. I personally assure them, because I live close to death and work with people's health, that there is no more precious good than anyone's health in the world. If you ask a mother who lost her child from a car accident, she will tell you: "I don't care about the earth, I don't care about anything. The child I lost interest in." Let some people think about that. Our democracy is durable, no matter how many people want to hurt it every day. She can stand the war they're in, and she'll be a winner. We are together with all those who think, think and believe that democracy is the most valuable city in the world and we will defend it to blood. I finish my introduction: "SKAI", courage in his people, courage in all those who are subject to any form of violence. Ladies and gentlemen, a country's budget largely gives its mark of economic policy being pursued. From this point of view, the budget submitted by the government to the House, which will be its last, could be very difficult to identify as a developmentist. On the contrary, with this budget, the government insists on the misleading of the Greek people. The great problem of the Greek economy is its development delay. In this problem, no financial adjustment is an answer. Whatever we have heard these days, there is no answer to the big problems of the country. The high cost of borrowing - which is why we do not go out on the markets too - is the high rates of service loans, and high unemployment is not treated at a rate of low growth. So the appropriate recipe is one and only: Investment, investment and investment. Unfortunately, this vital need, according to IOBE's recent survey, has been reduced by 23% in recent years. Equally negative were the points made a few months ago in the Budget Policy Council - which I do not think is about opposition - which says that the reduction is from 16% to 17%. Besides, we all know signs of cancerous investments. I am talking about private domestic and foreign, with the top of the Greek and Skouries. Not only do we have an investment increase, but also those that have been expressed for our country are faced with a number of obstacles to ideological, bureaucratic and many others. As long as I can point out that even investment in green energy from Greek business groups, which Yiannis Maniotis has fought very much, is blocking the scratches of unarmed government choices. We prefer the costly and environmentally destructive lignite we see in Megalopolis, indifferent to renewable energy sources. Although investment is breathtaking for the Greek economy, for the country, for employment, for the revitalization of productive activities, the lack of a favourable political environment is absolutely complete. The absence of substantial incentives for private investment also makes the business community's interest reduced. The government's widely advertised high primary surpluses are used to repay loans and to write off votes. The method of overtaxation, which the government consciously chooses and dismantles the middle class, in no case creates the conditions for the revitalization of the Greek economy. On the other hand, as most economists support, it acts as a brake on its development, it makes it resilient, it reduces demand and - most importantly of all - it reverses productive and economic activities. I'm done because I've had a lot of time on what I wanted to say at the beginning. In health, we see things as much worse than 2014. The concept of "degradation" takes flesh and bone. It makes you wonder if we live in a modern and civilized state of the Western world. The obligations of hospitals are growing constantly, but their budgets are falling over time. The TOMYs have failed miserably. There's no two hundred thirty-nine. We went twice and inaugurated Thessaloniki's TOMY. There's nothing. Three thousand doctors leave at the end of the year. We're waiting to see what happens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done, Mr. President. I'm really done. The health system works in red and if we don't hurry, we certainly won't have health in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, the insistence of SYRIZA on many issues and in particular on Article 16 of the Constitution reveals the way it deals with society and education. She wants a Greece that fights only for her survival, dragging, waiting for nothing better than herself. Even the example of Cyprus tells you nothing. Look at what the Cypriots said yesterday and what they did with their universities. Ladies and gentlemen, the government recipe in no way focuses on the key structural and structural problems of the Greek economy. Its only concern is to exploit overcrowding to serve political, party and election objectives. After all, election benefits do not only have a zero effect, but further strengthen the tendency of voters to look for prospects and expectations elsewhere. Anyone who monitors the international and the domestic political scene knows that retrospectives, allowances, appointments do not bring any positive results. We've seen it before when we did it. The government deceived the Greeks who voted and trusted her. That is why punishment is inevitable very quickly, very soon, not later than eight months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory of thirty students and students and two of their training attendants from the 2nd Kozani High School (second section). Welcome to the House! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We're moving on with Mr. Gregory Fisherian. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to express our complete and unequivocal support for the 'SKAI' and 'Kathimerini' complex, which suffered today at dawn, a murderous attack by 'progressive' young hoodmen, an absolutely fascist attack, as we have been accustomed to for several years now, covering or doing that we do not see a number of such fighters. I hope this is the last type of fascist attack, and I would like to fully agree with the Prime Minister, who said that this has been implemented, implemented, made by some cowardly guys and by dark circles. Indeed, these cowardly people and these dark circles hope from tomorrow to end their action, since all parties in the democratic arc condemn these fascist attacks that are taking place and of course, now we are all across the street. I hope that these attacks that started with paints, pedestrian pedestrians, with the burning of people inside banks and with various other minor incidents have been brought to an end for eight years. It is good to think that progress cannot be achieved in such ways as a fighter, where anyone who doesn't like something, bites his neck or pukes on him and demolishes him, throws him paints, shoots him or blows him up in the air. These methods are not even multi-democratic systems. For the budget: this budget is a category of budget. We have so far met three categories of budget. I have been referring to the period I have been in this House since 2007 specifically. We have therefore discussed many budgets. The three categories are the budget which is submitted and which is not implemented, a budget that is implemented, but we have said, but we have tabled and it is the third category of budgets that is 'but the big ones, of Friday's milk'. He doesn't know which of the three categories, really, he's part of it. I think it has a little of three, perhaps a quarter, because it is the first Memorandum of Understanding. So I was looking to find out where the minimum wage would go to 751 euros, if a 13th pension had been included, if the increases that had to come in have been made, if they had been cancelled by a law and an article or two laws and three articles all the previous memoranda and their implementing laws. So, if we don't put those on the first memorial budget, where are we going to put them? To the last? Of course, we're out of the memoirs. But, as we have said here before, we are not the ones who came out of the memos. They came out of the memorials and stopped paying. We in the memorials are here, present, and we'll enjoy it by the end, The level of confidence in the Greek Government is the smallest in the European Union, according to data from the sad Eurobarometer - what these loan sharks have, the lenders, the blackmailers, the bastards - a reflection of the low confidence in the fact that Greece is a euro-denominated European Union in the effective management of public expenditure, which we are increasing instead of reducing, continuously hiring new customers. So fewer and fewer people - since they are fired in the real economy, by the private sector, and we hire the public sector - will pay more and more, until we are all appointed to see who will pay us later. This is stolen from a cartoon. The first Memorandum of Understanding should mark the establishment of a new relationship of confidence between the state and the citizens on the basis of 'a new social contract', to remember old social democratic, socialist and central left-wing words. And, of course, he should answer just one question: How will this country - the old Katapaliadistan, today's proud Greece - have a high growth rate through a new production model? Instead, we have unfair taxes that sustain a waste state, which is becoming increasingly and less effective and more expensive. The additional taxes for 2019 are 1 billion. The highest indirect taxes in the euro area, which are the most reactionary. Indirect taxes are something 'Thatcher' and something like that. In other words, the indirect taxes on the left are far from the left because they go all over the world regardless. They're hitting where the indirect taxes are found. We therefore have the highest indirect taxes in the euro area. Since 2014 revenues in Greece from indirect taxes have increased by 4.1 billion - from 23.8 to 27.9 - while direct taxes have remained almost unchanged, that is, from 20.7 billion to 21 billion. The most unfair social taxes, the indirect, are smuggling the non-preferential Greeks, because a bread and a Internet connection requires both the poor and the rich and pay the same increased taxes - indirect - both of them. Reducing the tax rate on enterprises in 2019 will go from 29% to 28% instead of 26% that was said and predicted. One in five citizens pay 90% of income taxes. We pay 6 out of 10 euros - now it can be 7 out of 10 euros - for taxes and contributions, which are directed towards paying the salaries of civil servants and pensions. 4.5% - four and a half, not four and a half, which we usually say three and a half, is three and a half - of companies pay 83% of the income tax. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of the 87 billion received by the State, 21.6 billion - one minute, Mr President - go for the salaries of civil servants and 31.2 billion for the payment of pensions, i.e. EUR 52.8 billion for salaries and pensions. The country is hit by every indicator of investment: the budget, investment in all sectors. There is evidence that we have said and said. We're always saying we're struggling to have society upright. But we grow old and we whistle indifferently! From 2011 to 2017, the population continuously declines. Greece holds the last position on expenditure in support of family and child support. A couple with average wages and two children pay the highest taxes in Europe. In a country that grows old and its economy is completely injured, deinvestment dominates. We promised we'd make big investments. We didn't do almost anything for the country. This country needs development, not over-excessive and over-taxation, not even Thatcher did such a thing, excesses that we use to serve customer relations, while denounced the others, the old ones, who threw us into the hole with the memoranda, and now we're opening a bigger hole and going back in worse. How are we going to create jobs and income? What care will we take to the losers of the memorials?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u233	Sir, Fisherman, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u234	How are we going to break down the party state and customer relationship with the state and world and customers? How are we going to export instead of import, or at least balance it? How will the most educated generation return to the country, once fleeing the unskilled, unskilled, and now the foam of the Greek society is leaving to find work outside or to study outside, why is it forbidden to study it here? This Greece of investment and major changes is the one we need and not the one we have built by denouncing the previous ones and making three worse than they did.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Fisherman, I can't allow you any more. Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u236	I have here all twenty-nine taxes implemented by the SYRIZA - ANEXEL - the left-wing government of Panos Kammenos - registered one -. I hope that it will be thirty in the next few months, as the advertising of the twenty-nine laundry manufacturers said. Thank you very much. Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, I have received a call from Mr Kostas Karamanlis. In order not to come to the House and start the clashes, which were informed of Mr Spirtzi's nominal report, he told me to take the Minutes and read four lines, which are the reference he made to his face. He begged him not to come, so we could move on smoothly. So what Mr Karamanlis said is: 'What you are doing successfully - and I acknowledge it to you, the truth is - is that you are completing the major projects, but which you have found by 70% to 80% ready from the previous governments'. I think it is quite different what Mr Karamanlis said in the sense that he wanted to give. So we move on to Mr Themistollis Mumulides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me to refuse to accept that the opposition parties come from virginity, because that is about what we understand these four days. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by definitely condemning the terrorist attack at the offices of SKAI and Kathemerini, a suspected attack, a dark act against the Republic and expressing our support for the workers and journalists of the station. Currently, for the fourth day, the debate on the 2019 budget. However, because a lot has been heard during the debate - severe criticisms, particularly catastrophes, easy characterisations - it would be useful to remember and what this government received in January 2015. It is therefore worth reminding ourselves firmly that in January 2015 we received a bankrupt country, a country deported, almost isolated from the international community. The Greek society does not forget who led the country to that historical economic and social deadlock and to international depreciation, the result of wrong political decades. And, of course, no one forgets what the terrible phenomena of corruption, the interlocutory, have eroded the country's economy. We are listening four days to the description of a black image, mainly from Acoustic Opposition, we hear from the representatives of the New Democracy a description of dehearted, a description of total lack of colour, hope, a catastrophe everywhere. We have a continuous description of a black image, like the ERT's 'black'. And, of course, as a man living and thinking, I refuse to believe, gentlemen of Officer Opposition, that your color is black. In the political vertigo, then, of the Officerial Representation, in the hybrid rhetoric of the President of the New Democracy, we will respond with three words: memory, responsibility and future. We attended the debate in plenary a few days ago on the pension cut, but we followed the divisive rhetoric of the President of New Democracy. On the day that, for millions of pensioners, the non-remuneration of pensions was also legally forfeited - a very important success of the Greek Government - the Chief of Officers of the Anti-Population attempted to change the agenda in an unprecedented, opportunistic and epic way. He talked about a transaction, linking the pension cut to the Prespecies Agreement, raising tons, attempting polarization, and choosing to play with the memory of the Greek people. He chose to divide society, in an effort to weaken the great success and important work produced by the government over this four-year period under difficult conditions. Watching one - one of the announcements by the President of SYRIZA, Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, from the Thessaloniki Exhibition to be implemented, he understands that there is a problem - in the event of its failure - with his presidential courtman. So he attempts a unrealized civil war, a division. Watching this dialogue by television receivers, the Greek society perceives both worlds through the rhetoric of the speakers of each party. So we as a party are the sum of our speakers and I think that is clear in Greek society. We must know that the Civil War is a traumatic memory of our people, and every democratic force and every democrat must be an irreversible past and a joint effort. As for the Prespecies Agreement - which must be reminded that the name issue first appeared by the late Constantine Mitsotakis and was defended by the sister of the current President of the New Democracy, Mrs Dora Bakoyannis - will come to Parliament on time. The gathering of Thessaloniki last Friday at Alexandria Melathos is only the beginning of a course towards the people, with the aim of informing and telling the truth about the agreement. And this information course will reach every corner of Greece, mostly every citizen of northern Greece. Those who try to invest in distortion or conceal the truth, those who try to divide, with a view to their political survival, will also receive a response to the polls in the coming months. 2019 is a difficult year, a year important. It is a crucial year, a year for democracy, where every legitimate political controversy - and it is very important that there should be confrontations at Parliament level - has for me a historicly necessary point of meeting all democratic forces, which must be the defeat of the extreme right-wing forces throughout Europe. And that's why we're all responsible. Unfortunately, Europe is suffering. Europe must take corrective decisions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Today, the Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Georgiadis, said everything. He explained, in the most emphatic way, that we are living in a capitalist Europe. But Europe cannot continue as a Europe of technocrats, a Europe of numbers and often as a cynical Europe. This change in European policy in favour of social equality and fair distribution, in favour of Europe returning to the principles of Enlightenment, will continue to defend and claim as a party. It is historic that SYRIZA, the left-wing forces, the socialist and left-wing forces in the new Europe that we want, not a Europe that perpetuates a bad self, but another truly democratic Europe that defends democracy and reverses fascism. It is incomprehensible that Europe's economic political choices do not make any difference to the results of policies chosen and implemented. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. It is incomprehensible to ignore the vast majority of European citizens who live in fear of continuing poverty and unemployment. The rise of the extreme right is largely due to European economic policies, capitalist policies, Mr Georgiadis. Comparing numbers cannot be the idea of Europe's future, it cannot be the meeting point. It is historically necessary to compare societal and human. I close, referring to the year 2019, which is a year of elections: it is the year of mere analogy for local government. It is therefore the year of major consensus in local communities, And, by the way, let me say that those of us who want the Greek people united, reconciled and colluded with each other would have had for months to vote in favour of the simple analogue because simply analogue helps a lot in dialogue, coexistence and consensus. 2019 will be a year of new partnerships and co-existence in the central political scene. The country must move on. Europe must go ahead. The budget, which will be voted for tomorrow by the Greek Parliament, is the last of a government whose constitutional cycle is to be completed in 2019. It is, however, the first budget for a new, new, hopeful period, which will also be served for the next four years by the Government and the SYRIZA. SYRIZA will prove consciousness, choice and need...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Mumulides, finish it up. Don't make me interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u240	I'm closing, Mr. President. ...of the Greek society. Memory, responsibility, future are the main reasons for SYRIZA's coming electoral prevalence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u241	Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, MP in Athens, New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u242	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not only self-evident that the condemnation of the terrorist attack at the SKAI and Kathimerini television station today is not self-evident. I think that this condemnation should come in handy and every time a threat is launched - whether it is launched by a member of the 'Rubicon', as it had done a few months ago, but which you systematically mock up, or who are launching it politically, such as the Minister of National Defence who had said a few months ago: 'Why are they not blowing up a channel there in Faliro?' - we should condemn her because we know that it can lead to much worse situations than the ones we think about. Yesterday's attack, the size of the bomb, shows that a new generation of terrorism has been taken in the country, which has access to such equipment. And that is what I think the Minister for Civil Protection should deal with with with it with a great deal of seriousness. Did I just hear Mr. Spirtzi, who described us as an amazing Greece, which is being done fantasticly, new, nice and I wanted to ask him this: Four years now, this Greek guise ever intends to begin? You accepted that this work must be done. You accepted it. You have ratified the convention, despite the reactions. Why doesn't it start? What strangles? What effectiveness? How many four years of SYRIZA will it take to make a project that you can get from the contract and complete it? How many? May I remind you of the port of the cruise? I would like to say that. There is also the port of cruise in Piraeus, which also had 110 million financing, the master plan of which Mr Spirtzis himself does not sign and ratify, to start, which also had 95% funding from European programmes, from the European funds. That's not what's going on either. He told us about transportation. Indeed, there is no greater failure of social policy than failure in the transport sector. Western Athens is suffering today. One bus an hour has Petroupoli, one bus an hour has Haidari, one bus an hour has the Cameroon. Half the buses are locked in the trains and the OSCE debts are constantly rising. The transport has remained in the era of another Athens, without infrastructure, and of course we have not seen line 4 of the metro, which will finally connect West Athens to the rest of Athens. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Would you excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u243	Go on, Mr. Varvichiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u244	I would like to ask myself about this, which she has told us, that if Greece today is stronger, if it has managed to regain its international authority, if it has managed to regain its financial capacity, if it has managed to speak to its partners with respect. Who is this Greece that speaks respectfully? Greece threatened by Eddie Rama, like the Greeks' properties in Himara, and the challenges remain unanswered? Mr Kotzias is here, who had announced that he would solve the problem with Albania. So you told us in the summer after the Prespes, after this delightful agreement, which all the Greeks embraced, as you can see and everyone is glad to see because you have granted what no one has given in the past. We were all waiting to see this agreement with Albania. Instead, what have we seen? What was the improvement of your relationships? On the other hand, we have seen the Albanian police act in an unacceptable manner and you have accused as fascists of those who unanimously asked Parliament to keep a minute of silence in the memory of the Greek compatriot. You accused us as fascists, because we said here that we must defend our people who are lost in unjust attacks, and today I hear no strong voice from Greece against what is happening to the Greeks of Himaras who are losing their property in an unacceptable and undemocratic manner. I would like to ask if strong Greece is the strong Greece of the open borders? Because today Mr Spirtz has confessed that you are implementing a policy of open borders. However, the open borders of Greece have made all the other borders of Europe clear and have succeeded in being on the international frontlines for the violation of human rights in Hotspots and refugee camps throughout the Aegean, at the same time as our country has accepted unprecedented funding. And it's not just the unprecedented funding, but it's also the way it's managed. Today we are discussing in committee a provision giving the 'free' to the Minister for Migration Policy to justify any expenditure that it has done in the past and will do in the future, without complying with any rule of international accounting, no transparency rule, no rule resulting from our participation in the European Union, no rule imposed by any legal internal rule. And this is seen as making us proud, the only European country that is financed by humanitarian aid, which Europe gives third countries, Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Lebanon, Jordan and Greece, to the recipients of Europe's international humanitarian aid. This is the internationally proud country? Finally, I close because I think what you have not achieved is, although you have completed the calendar cycle, to get the country out of the crisis. Minister, the reason why we entered the memorandum was so that we could borrow at competitive rates. Today, you cannot go out on the markets, and this is the biggest failure of the whole programme that you have implemented. You have made the Greeks close, you have made the businesses go away, you have created new holes and new debts to Greek citizens, but you have not achieved your main goal. And that is what it is that the country has access to international financial markets. That is why it will be the last budget you are proposing and that is why the Greeks will give election 2019 the opportunity to a next government, to the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, really raise the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u245	Listen, ladies and gentlemen, how we will then proceed and what will happen tomorrow morning, as the President, Mr Voutsis, informed me. Tonight we will go until 12 o'clock and not until 1.30 ́, because with not perfect discipline, but with quite discipline the list goes ahead. So I want to tell you that it will end tonight and the fourteenth circle of speakers. This is where I open a parentheses. Don't get a list underneath, because that's where it's in the registration order. But you know that the list is being altered. So you have another number down and you come up and you complain, and so I interrupted Mr Varvitsiotis in no way, in reply to colleagues. So today we will definitely go up to a hundred and seventy-nine. The sixteenth, which is the last cycle, will surely be tomorrow, and it'll probably be the fifteenth cycle. That's what we'll know today at about 23:00. Tomorrow morning we will begin at 10 a.m. so that there is no time pressure, because, I would remind you, tomorrow, apart from a few ministers, it is the Heads' day. Now the Minister will take the floor, Mr. Gerovalis. Mr Dendias has then been asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative and we will continue with Mr Meikopoulou, Mr Dimas, Mrs Jakri and then the Minister, Mr Paulakis. Madam Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me start with today's bombing at the SKAI television station. I would like to say once again that democracy is shielded, is not threatened by anyone and by nothing. And I say this once again, because I put it in my position and in the morning hours at SKAI TV, where we were immediately with the Chief of Greek Police and I would like to assure you here today that the Greek Police will do everything possible to settle the case. Ladies and gentlemen, in the favoured states, in democracy, explosive devices do not have room. Of course, we categorically and unequivocally condemn this attack and terrorism. We make it clear. We say it and we mean it because the left of her struggles has always given them light. He gave them the light with confidence in public dialogue, the free will of citizens, against disorientation and destabilisation, against fear and its use. That is why our abhorrence of such actions is not realistic and we do not condemn them hypocritically. Because others are condemning, but at the same time they are trying to take advantage of the terrorist blow, using, by aiming at political confrontation, this not as a component of democracy, but as something else. This something else in democracy does not exist and those who imply it, not only are mistaken, but they provide a flawed service to democracy. I'm addressing everyone. I call on the entire democratic world to a stricken unity, because that is the only way we can deal with these phenomena. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here, however, to discuss the budget for next year. We have reason to be optimistic. The country came out of the "memorandum narrative", reintroduced into the international economic system, with two words entering normality, and the economy starts breathing without mechanical support. We have lived through a protracted austerity, in which we all know who led us, the alternating governments of the New Democracy, the former PASOK, now KINAL. And today our people benefit from the first positive effects of economic and social policy. The government has these years been wise, meticulous and designing the ship of the Greek economy. It wasn't a course easy. It was a difficult course for the government. However, it was a course that was not lonely. He was next to the Greek people, who trusted her and of course had no appetite to find himself in the jaws of economic neoliberalism. In these years of critical national effort, the Opposition, with the first of the New Democracy, of course, instead of responding to a role required by the seriousness of the situation, was carried into an unrealistic opposition kite. Mr Mitsotakis has been living in an illusion, an illusion of a fantastic pre-election period. So he decided to invest all opposition policy in every way a failure of the government. But one after the other hopes collapsed. From the success of one evaluation it went through waiting for another's failure, on the one hand, it went to the next. When these collapsed, they went out to the waitress across Europe, sometimes begging, sometimes demanding, sometimes asking for affection from European counterparts not to allow positive action to be taken in the country. It was, of course, the political irrationality that found no response to his ideological counterparts either. And all this describes it as a nationalist opposition or nationalist opposition position. However, the evaluations of the programmes have been completed and we have come out of the memoranda. Finally, uncomfortable, irritated New Democracy put it all in pensions and certain they would be cut off. When he went on and on, he started fighting the European officials. After seeing and proving, he invented the incredible nonsense that the pension cut was in exchange for the Skopje Agreement. Of course, so much political misery and analytical closeness I think someone should work too hard to get it. I would like to address Mr Mitsotakis and say that, Mr Mitsotakis, "Valto's Secrets" are sinking you. You don't get it or you do it consciously. Ladies and gentlemen, the government stabilised the country's budget and investment environment, increased the prestige, credibility on the international and European scene. Today, it begins to return to the beneficiaries, namely the Greek people, the dues, and again Mr Mitsotakis began the same way: the reward for the weaker strata, who were the first to breathe, called it gifts, turbours, election tips, illusions and various other designations. It's not an excuse. But they're benefits. I am giving the words, but I am giving them in practice. Let's say indulgence is the 2,000 euros that Mr. Mitsotakis will give to every newborn child. It's an impulse. Benefits are what began and are credited, starting with the uniforms, in the accounts of the beneficiaries. And so the promises of the Prime Minister are being made. Is it not a provision to reduce HISBIA? Isn't the reduction of insurance contributions for freelance professionals a breathtaking breath? Support for young people with half the insurance contributions is not supportive? Is the upgrade of the "Help at Home" service with the recruitment of three thousand two hundred officials not really helping the helpless and the elderly? Is the reduction in corporate taxation 1% per year not alleviating? Is it annoying that more than half a million beneficiaries have already benefited from the social dividend of EUR 710 million? Is the increase in the pensions of six hundred and twenty thousand pensioners in the application of the new insurance law unreasonable? Ladies and gentlemen, our country has been hard hit, having to deal with the problems caused by the economic crisis, on the other hand, by the instability of the wider geopolitical environment. In extremely difficult circumstances, the Greek Police were called upon to contribute to the management of the greatest post-war migration crisis, which Europe experienced, with reduced human resources and reduced means. For I would remind you that Mr Mitsotakis has arranged in 2014 to abolish six thousand seven hundred organic positions from the Greek Police and, of course, the policies of those years have led to the deforestation of it from logistics infrastructure. However, the Greek Police contributed to the armoury of the country's borders, while at the same time faced increased infraction and crime, as it is next to cause a period of crisis of such intensity and such an extent. However, the Greek Police noted and noted successes. He identified cases, brought serious blows to organized crime, we finally took more police on the road across Greece, implementing the project "PERSEEOS" for obvious policing with a view to micro-parliamentarianity. Already the first two months are encouraging. With up-to-date plans, the Greek Police managed to control the infrastability in the region of Filippi, to return to the citizens the field of Mars and continue business throughout the center of Athens. Ladies and gentlemen, whoever does not recognise this work commits not only inadmissible but also injustice. At the same time it undermines social security and peace. Unfortunately, this has chosen that the Qualified Opposition is done. It undermines the most fearful instincts of society, bets on fear, attempts to set up a virtual insecurity setting - it is indifferent to whether this is far from reality - focused the issue of Greece's security on the insecurity of the Exarches and, of course, carried out the grand comparative simulation with Syria. I don't think it would hurt anyone here. The New Democracy colleagues are still claiming that universities have become a centre of lawlessness. There have also been problems over your days, there are now. But the question is not in your analysis, it is to get to the cause and say that it is the university asylum, because it is supposedly not possible for the police to step in and intervene. Let's make it clear one more time: the police can immediately intervene on crimes when they are called by the rector authorities, and on their own initiative on the felonies, if they are informed. This was done just last week at the University of Thessaloniki, after a methodical survey of more than three months and a very large - perhaps the largest network of drugs in the region, with actions by the Greek Police and the environment and within the university. The Republican authorities thanked the Greek police. At the same time, of course, they took the unheard of decision not to take lessons at the university on the day of the Prime Minister's speech in Thessaloniki. To freshen up memory, let me say that in the years that the law on university asylum had been abolished, with Diamantopoulou, the situation has not only improved, but has deteriorated. The evidence proves it. The university, as we all know, in all phases of modern history in our country was a place of free movement of ideas. This upsets some people's sleep because they don't want the public university with prestigious and upgraded status. Of course, they do not want university asylum because they do not want academic freedom and social freedom. They want repression and police rule. In her attitude, the Qualified Opposition tries to discredit the Greek universities, but also the country internationally. Ladies and gentlemen, the security of society is one of the primary goods and values of a democratic society. The Government's aim is to make substantial sense and content. In cooperation with the Ministry of Education we are reforming the educational programme at police schools and through the Centre for Security Studies, the CEMEA, we are developing a series of projects to shield the security of the country's main infrastructures. Because security is not just what we are discussing when we have facts or not, but it is also to secure, for the first time, the infrastructure of the country. Security is to safeguard citizens in natural disasters and emergencies. And here we move on to the establishment of the National Civil Protection Authority. The plan's getting ready. At the beginning of the year they will be in public consultation. It is a project that adopts a modern management model in more advanced countries, a truly holistic plan for all hazard categories, but also for all prevention and rehabilitation phases.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u247	Madam Minister, we have said radiological solidarity, but don't overdo it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u248	They were terrorists too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u249	I'll give you a minute, please, so you can finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u250	I shall conclude, Mr President. We are moving towards the corresponding reinforcement of the Fire Corps, of course, by depleting budgetary resources, but also the important private donations. We believe in the spring that the Fire Corps will be in another position. Here, I will finish, Mr President. However, I would like to say once again that we do not prefer blind insurmountable repression to the exercise of our security policy. It leads nowhere but derailment of order and security. They were tested in our country and failed. Whoever wears, I don't know how - with personal charm, with political qualifications, with other tricks, I don't know - that he's going to take order on 'good morning', on a voluntary basis, he doesn't know what's going on with it. We prefer what I have told you with reason limitations, prevention, cooperation, dialogue with civil society. We are working for a country that is safe, modern, European. But all this is done in terms of deepening democracy. Thank you. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u251	Following Mr Polakis, Mr Pafilis has been asked for the floor as a Parliamentary Representative of the JRC. So there are only two parliamentary representatives left, Mr Mandas who has chosen to speak tomorrow and Mr Papachristopoulos, who will probably speak tomorrow too. So we shall now proceed with the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Teddy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to begin with the absolute, unambiguous condemnation of the bombing today against SKAI and Kathimerini. I fully share the position of the Head of State of New Democracy on the notion of hit and I fully support, as all of us think, journalists and people who serve the idea and democratic duty and the right to information. I think I was lucky because I was here and I heard the position of the Minister of Civil Protection. Madam Minister, I have to tell you that in the chair on which you sit, you've been sitting for a while. That is why the criticism I am going to make will not be entirely what should be done for the total facts of the government. This chair gives you the obligation not to find out, but it creates two more much more serious obligations. One is to catch up. The other is to smuggle through the prosecution authorities. I have to tell you that it makes me a terrible impression that you said nothing about either one or the other, apart from general, usual, multiple references. Because you, at least, had to explain to the House why this was allowed to happen. Was ‘SCAI’ an objective that could not be predicted? The point was a point that could not be kept? The Greek police don't exist to participate in parades. The Greek Police exist under the Constitution and the laws to protect the life and property and rights of Greek citizens. This bomb poses a risk to the rights of Greek citizens as a whole, not only for SKAI, KATHMERINI, these journalists. The fact that the state, democracy, did not prevent this hit is a failure for the state and democracy. And the responsibility always - and I have shared it many times - has it the Minister sitting in this chair. We therefore expected more explanations of why, at least, the hit was not prevented. Now I'm coming to say something else. You talked about injustice. You have wronged Mr. Mitsotakis. Kyriakos Mitsotakis did not abolish five and a half thousand posts of police officers, ladies and gentlemen. I took them out. I annulled all the empty organic positions of the Greek Police.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u253	Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u254	Absolutely, congratulations. Thank you. I'll take it. I have to tell you I didn't expect the moment will come when SYRIZA will denounce the New Democracy because it abolished the empty organic positions in the Greek Police. I didn't expect that in my life. Do you know why I abrogated them? For a simple and basic reason: because, simply, they did not need it, because the number of Greek policemen was absolutely sufficient, as long as there was proper education, proper use, proper placement. That's what was missing then. We have tried to improve this with excellent results on the indicators of crime and civil protection and on the common perception of the security that we have created in relation to today's perception. I have to say that it only surprises me when the Minister of Public Order comes here and boasts about the Aryan Field. He took over the Mars Field. When was the Area of Mars occupied to be recaptured, Minister, on your day?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u255	It was your expression.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u256	I guess it hasn't happened since 2012, 2013. In any case, not 'considered', you said'removed'. If that pleases you, we are absolutely satisfied. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also seen this: SYRIZA wants more police officers. It's interesting, really. Not that he hires them, that he is proclaiming positions, or that he is changing the organograms. He's just saying that to say something against Mr. Mitsotakis. He is responsible for something that he has absolutely zero and which, by the way, was absolutely right. And I don't remember you protesting at all. Incidentally, I do not remember you coming to ask me for the floor for the removal of empty organic positions, which we advertised as something absolutely positive. Then you liked it. Now you don't like it. I come to the matter of the budget. Mr President, I would like to ask for your tolerance for one, two minutes - I have already done so - for talking about the wider issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u257	As we have given the ministers more time, parliamentarians will also have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u258	Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is the picture of the government and its political identity. I'd call him a model of subsidisation, micro-participation. Why? Because it discourages those who want to work and create with the unreasonable overtaxation. For it punishes hard anyone who does not evade tax. Because it addicts society into the logic of benefits. Because it makes a fool of the sacred idea of social solidarity through the micro-party effort to exploit overcrowding. Mostly because he is completely ignoring the economy of the 21st century. He ignores innovation, ignores the stoves, ignores the need to create a friendly environment for investing high-risk capital. It disregards the need to entrepreneurize young people, indifferent to their ideas, for their potential to create new products, exportable services. But also in the public sector, which is supposed to be the government's 'early cow', is entangled by the public sector and by the government officials on mechanical operating standards. It treats civil servants as limited-efficiency gears, completely ignores their capacity and offers more and be pitied for these most of them. It refuses the Kenyan model of the intervention role of the state. This is reflected in the reduction in the already anemic Public Investment Programme. It is generally not a proposal. It is an effort, and indeed an agonizing effort, Minister of Finance, your party survival. It is the end of a disastrous mandate for the economy, for society, for democracy, for a total failure in all areas, for health, for education, for public administration, for public security, for immigration, for civil protection. There is a positive one, because we must not blame the government. The government, with its failure, ridiculed the scarecrow of populism. It has thankfully made Greece the first post- populist society in Europe and at the same time destroyed all the myths on which this government was based. Myth first: The government and government represent the forces of progress, the new one, the new one. Is the political exacerbation, ladies and gentlemen, which the government is seeking is progress? Is bisect policy progress for the sake of the Prime Minister? Are economic extermination through mid-class taxes progress? Are the overtaxation, the distribution of allowances, the enlargement of the public with recruitment, the appointment of friends, companions, relatives to thousands of positions of responsibility, progress? Is that any progress? The hugging of the populist, the deep old part of PASOK, is that also progress? Co-government with the reactionary, partly racist and nationalist party of super-right, is that also progress? Myth two: this is where the forces of democracy are represented. Are lasting uncovered interventions in justice a democratic feature, ladies and gentlemen? Is subjecting the independent authorities to party cheques a democratic feature? The deterioration in Parliament's functioning with the hundreds of rosphetological amendments and legislation, like what Mr Varvitsiotis said earlier, which is being discussed in committee, to legitimise all expenditure beyond public accounting, beyond any safeguarding of public money, is also a democratic feature? Is the indifference to the highest good, the protection of the life and property of the citizens also a democratic feature? Myth third: The government protects the interests of the economically weak. The dozens of indirect taxes, which have increased, who are they harming? The rich? Who is harming the airborne transfer of services from the low to the high rate of VAT? Is the abolition of the ESS harming who? The constant reduction in the social budget, who is harming? The abolition of a series of social benefits who harms? Who is harming widow's pension cuts? Does all this hurt the rich? Fourth myth, the most prosperous of all lately, because others do not tolerate even the slightest criticism: it is allegedly the government that represents the moral advantage. Ladies and gentlemen, the dismantling of immigration funds, proof of which is this legislation, what moral advantage does it create? The transfer by opaque public real estate procedures to the EBRD, to be sold by express procedures against a lentil plate in specific interests, what is it? The uncovered service with a number of charismatic amendments to specific, completely specific, business interests what moral capital does it create? The complaints and the memories of ministers about misappropriation of public funds and money laundering, placements within the Ministerial Council, unprecedented in Greek history, what moral advantage do they maintain? Is the attempt to extend the concession of the airport "Eleftherios Venizelos" to one third of the price prevented by the Commission, the DEPA scandals, the scandal of the tenants in Maximos, all this is a moral advantage? This government, ladies and gentlemen, has undermined the future of the country. But we in the New Democracy believe in this future. We believe that we can make a new start, lead the country to fair and strong growth. As Kyriakos Mitsotakis has committed, we are ready to limit taxes, limit insurance contributions, make use of the financial instruments to inject funds that will reduce unemployment, give jobs, bring back those who have been uninhabited. Because we believe that heavy taxation cannot compensate for the low incomes of many. We believe in the power of the free economy, the power of the free man. We believe in the need to stand by the weak. We believe in their social protection. We believe in a modern European state, in the functioning of the institutions, regardless of the parties, in the respect for justice, in the sincerity of the young Greeks, in the opportunities we owe them, in their future, in modern education, in the support of innovation, in the democracy of the years of the crisis and have every right to speak about what is happening in their country and we must give them the right to vote and, above all, to create the conditions to return home. We believe above all in national reconciliation and unity, in the national unity that was conquered by the blood of brave people who fought from both sides of the historical argument, but above all fought against the conqueror and against the dictatorship. And I have to tell you, because the debate on the budget has a broader character, that I am personally disgusted by the existence of a paranormal neo-naziism in the political life of the place, the spiritual heirs, that is, the murderers of our fathers and grandparents, the offspring of Hitler, Goebbels, Himbler and the other monsters of Naziism, who delivered Macedonia and Thrace to the Bulgarians, who led a million Greeks, not only men, but also women and children, to starvation and who sent tens of thousands of others to the excerpts, camps and creams. This political system must be eliminated, and the way to eliminate it is to convince society that we can lead it out of the crisis, for a better tomorrow. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the country's governance is a responsibility, not a trophy for party exploitation. We are historically the folk party that supports the weak, the medium-sized party, the social majority party, the party of patriots, not the nationalists, the party that wants to express the hopes of the overwhelming majority of Greeks, regardless of party origin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u259	Mr President, I would like the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u260	We will not start a dialogue now, because if we start, the twelve I said we will end today will go one. You have the floor for a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Teddy, you're not exactly right. I have not wronged Mr Mitsotakis, I simply did not say about you, because you need to sign, as you know, the Minister for Administrative Reform, who was then Mr Mitsotakis, perhaps in your own suggestion. I didn't know that detail. But I'm beyond saying that you cut the organic positions because they didn't need to. So the Greek police...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u262	The empty organic positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u263	Yeah, empty organics. You did the same thing then. You've done the work with the organigrams. I remember very well. You have cut horizontal organograms across the public to satisfy the indicators, Mr Dendia, and all fifteen thousand who had to be fired from the public, because that was agreed in the Memorandum at that time. Organic positions, therefore, on a memorandum, have been reduced throughout the public. However, I am overcome by saying to Greek Police: "These are you, so many of you. You have nothing better to hope for, when only the parliamentary control of your own MPs is to see that Greece is being sent to Police Departments - Members of your own group - it is absurd. The workers at the Greek police aren't enough, and you know that. They are not enough, because their role is increased, their duties are increased in a new era with other requirements. And of course, there is also a need for logistical infrastructure. I remind you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u264	We're not making a second speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u265	I'm done, Mr. President. I remind you that when you left the government, no Greek police car had a car under five hundred thousand kilometres - and it was a saraval - but you never took care in times of bliss to replace them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u266	That's what you can tell a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u267	Please, Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u268	Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor for a minute and then we close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u269	Just for the order of business, Mr President, I would like to inform the Minister of something that is likely to be known or ignored. There was no Memorandum of Understanding concerning the Security Body and the Security Body were not subject to the overall indicators. The reduction was therefore decided on the basis of the usefulness to society as a whole and the need or not. That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u270	They were useless, you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u271	Don't answer. Mr. Dendias is answering. You don't have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u272	I say again that what is needed, Minister, is better organograms, better and more serious police. They don't need recruitments, which you, too, have not even announced. If you - who now stand up and tell me something - do you believe that, in the thirty-five thousand that you have announced, how many are police officers?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u273	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u274	Don't you know what the Prime Minister says? As far as the thirty-five thousand new recruitments you say are concerned, they do not need any more. What it takes is the best use. However, this - I am not talking about you personally, may have been from when you went there to change your mind - your Government is not about it, because the problem is not a number problem, it is a problem of exploitation and a problem of political direction. I sincerely wish you, because you are a new minister there, to correct the bad texts. However, judging by the answer you gave me, this is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u275	Good. We shall now proceed as follows: Mr Meikopoulou, Mr Dimas, Mrs Jakri, Mr Paulakis, Mr Pafilis, Mr Karasmanis, Mr Karasouf, Mr Kyriazidis and Mr Kalogerou will have the floor. Here, Mr. Meikopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u276	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted that the parties in the democratic arc have today held a joint stand condemning the bombing of SKAI and KATHMERINA. I would also like to say that I endorse and am very pleased with the election of the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, who stressed the need for democratic vigilance and democratic response to the phenomena of Nazism and fascism. That was a very pleasant thing. But let us come to the point now. The truth is that after so many rapporteurs, after so many speakers and so many ministers' positions, I think the arguments for or against the budget have been exhausted. So, from now on, those of us who go up to Step in some way reproduce the same arguments, and that becomes a bit awkward. That is why I take this opportunity to make a more free place, first of all making a statement and finally trying to reach a conclusion. Regardless of how one perceives or how one is placed against the ideological time or political stigma of this government, the truth is that we were called in 2015 to manage the fates of a country that had problems with war in conditions of peace. In other words, if you look at the figures, you can see that from the percentage of GDP lost over the years of the crisis, how much unemployment and all that stuff had arrived. I therefore think that within these suffocating budgetary conditions, apart from the fact that we ourselves were called upon to make tough choices, we also decided to make two other options. Who were they, in my opinion? To manage as mildly as possible a truly tough agreement with compromise in 2015, aimed at not continuing the policy of producing deficits, because the deficits were those which produced the public debt and now fuelled and dealt with. A second target was the emphasis on the recovery of the social state and support for the weakest. Those were the two choices. Did we get them? I think that, despite the mistakes that this government has made and despite any omissions, I think they have been made within the very tough conditions and flagrant choices. I think that universal free access to public health structures and all uninsured people, the establishment of primary health care, where the health coverage of all citizens is of a more holistic and anthropocentric character, the universal application of social solidarity income, the establishment of the institutions of school meals, the rental allowance were options that testify to exactly what I am trying to argue, that despite all the hard conditions we have faced and choices that have a social stigma. What was the conclusion of all this effort? That we have tried to reconcile the need for fiscal stability with the promotion of a political plan, which would have a concrete sign, to keep society upright and first to protect the weakest, those who passed and lived in extreme poverty. But there is a qualitative difference in relation to today's debate. Who was she, and who's she probably? That following the concrete agreement that we had on the debt in August 2018, but also the way in which we closed the last assessment and ended the last financial adjustment programme, we have achieved something very specific, we have recovered part of our budgetary sovereignty and we have, ladies and gentlemen, from now on, the possibility of exercising our own policy mix in order to get the agreed budgetary targets. This is the key qualitative difference in this year's budget compared with all the previous ones. Therefore, the conclusion, which I would like to conclude, is this: in the political landscape of the future, we will have the possibility of reintroducing applied political and structural real confrontation into public dialogue. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, the contingency of SYRIZA, the current government, to all future governments is as follows: we have created the possibility to be able to discuss as democratic political parties and to be confronted without barbarians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u277	Thank you for keeping time too. Mr. Christos Dimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, want from the Step of the House to express my support for journalists and workers at "Kathimerini" and "SKAI" for the terrorist blow they have taken this morning. I think that we all have to do this in a democratically favoured society, obviously, is condemned by all the wings. The budget we are debating today is the last budget of the SYRIZA - Independent Greeks. It is the last budget of the governments of Tsipras - Kammenos. The failure of economic policy is not only that the households and businesses have kneeled, but that it has failed to achieve the main objectives set by the current government. I will give you fifteen figures on the course of the Greek economy and whoever wants, even the Minister, if he wants, can try to disprove any of these elements. The first is the yield of the ten-year bond. The reason why we entered the third improper memorandum, which charged us with over 100,000, 000, 000 debts, was because we did not have access to the markets. The goal was to regain access to markets in August 2018. Unfortunately - and I repeat this unfortunately - this has not happened to date. The yield of the ten-year bond is 4.3%. The yield of the ten-year bond is very high and the worst is that the international conditions were really favourable. Prime Minister, I remember you saying that our aim is to integrate into the programme of quantitative relaxation. Unfortunately, we did not join the program of quantitative relaxation and this is one of the greatest failures both of your own and of your government. The second element is the overdue tax debts of individuals, which have exceeded EUR 103,000,000. Only 40% have been created in the last three and a half years. In other words, think that we are being blamed for what the previous ones have done, but over 40% of private debt has been created within three and a half years. Third element: Over a thousand debt seizures per day. This is the social policy of Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos. Fourth element: Over 1,15 million debtors have been subject to enforcement measures. This is how they try to balance the budget and create the surpluses. Fifth element: another six hundred and thirty - five thousand now come to suffer also within the next period of time forced execution measures. Sixth item: nearly 4.2 million debtors have tax-cleared accounts. This means that one of the two taxpayers owes money to the tax office. Seventh element: Current government debts reach 2,600,000 euros. At this point, I would like to turn to a question that Mr Huliarakis, Mr Christos Stagioras, had asked nine months ago. Mr. Juliarakis said nine months ago: "I will agree with Mr. Stakora that the programme for the clearing of public liabilities is of particular importance to the real economy, because it actually strengthens the liquidity of the private economy and economic activity, as well as for the further resolution of public finances. Where I shall disagree with Mr Stavoura is on the path of payment of due obligations. Let me mention some sizes...". Minister, I don't know if you're listening to me, but I'm reading your own words. But you may not want to hear them, and I understand that. And Mr Juliarakis concludes: 'The amount of delays today remains important, however, at EUR 2,400,000'. This was March 2018. Today it's at 2,600,000 euros, it's increased. And Mr. Juliarakis continued: "The programme of the Ministry of Finance is to pay off the balance of EUR 2,400,000 by the end of the programme, until August 2018, which is absolutely possible both through the use of cash available - there are corresponding appropriations - and through the strengthening of these appropriations from the European Stability Mechanism programme". Prime Minister, what happened? We've dropped 2,400,000 euros off the budget as it turns out. I am making Mr Juliarakis' statement on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Eighth element: It is the study of the global economic forum on the competitiveness of the Greek economy. Every year, unfortunately, the competitiveness of the Greek economy disappears. In 2018, then, we are in the eighty-seventh place from a hundred thirty-seven countries. The most worrying thing is that in the impact of taxation, in the incentives to invest, of the hundred thirty-seven countries measured, we are thirty-seventh, last in the world. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A corresponding study of the World Bank's Doing Business shows that in the last three years we have retreated by fourteen positions. I also present this study in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] In the last few years, the full-time ratio has been distorted. From where full employment was 55% and 45% part-time, we now have 60% part-time and only 40% full-time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u279	The new recruits?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u280	No, it's not in the new recruits, Mr. Manda. Eleventh element: it is the Public Investment Programme. I would like to remind you that in 2017 the Public Investment Programme was at EUR 6,000,000. That was the target. The national side was 1,000,000,000 out of 5,000,000,000. Unfortunately, according to the budget implementation figures, only 200,000 000 have been spent since the 1,000,000,000 of the national side. So 800,000 were not spent for the reasons of the Public Investment Programme. However, the situation is equally worrying for this year as well. You're already off target 1,600,000 in six months. I want to return to your words, Mr Juliarakis. Less than a month ago you said to the House, I read your words: "I must point out here that this is not at the expense of the Public Investment Programme, as the Opposition claims. Our assessment of the budget expenditure is that this will also be the execution. The budgeted expenditure of the Public Investment Programme in 2018 was EUR 6,750,000, 000, the budgeted expenditure of the EIF next year will be EUR 6,750,000. I do not say a reduction of EUR 550,000, 000, I say maintenance of the Public Investment Programme." But I would like to show you a table from your Ministry, from the Ministry of Finance, in which last year the cumulative implementation of the public investment programme towards the objective seems to be apparent. You're 1,600,000 euros below your target. So in addition to EUR 2,600,000 of the outstanding debts, add EUR 1,600,000 here. I put it in the Minutes along with the statements made by the Minister. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Twelveth item: ESDP expenditure. I remember the Ministry of Economy and Development making triumphant announcements, that Greece is the first to absorb Community funds. That's a great lie! I repeat: great lie. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. Anyone who enters the European Commission website will see that Greece is a seventeenth in spending and a 20th in compatible NSRP expenditure 2014-2020. I'm tabling this table in the Minutes, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thirteenth element: Development Law. You voted for him three years ago. We said then that it is not developmental and that it will not have any real effect. Three years later, 1 euro has not fallen, please, on the market by your development law. Fourteenth element for the Greek economy: Index of digital economy and society. Greece was 20th seventh in 2017, is 20th eighth this year. Recently in the digital economy index. Here, how much interest you really show in digital governance. I'm tabling this table in the Minutes, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Last element is the OECD report, which says that in 2020 households may return to the situation that was in 2014. Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, here we are, disprove any of these elements you want or you can. Obviously, we are not voting for your budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a clarification to Mr Dimas, given that he has been placed on my position in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. First of all, I should like to make it clear once again to the House that the creation of new public dues does not improve, but worsens the primary result. It doesn't improve, it gets worse. Therefore, the primary result is not the result of the creation of overdue liabilities. Second, from July 2016 to summer 2018, even until today, the change in net dues was of the order of 4,000,000 euros, from 6,500,000 euros to about 2,500,000 euros in the autumn of 2018. In the summer of 2018, in fact, recognising that there is a question of full clearance of the figures concerned, we instructed the Court of Auditors to examine, if you wish, the structural problems, the roots of evil, namely why the Greek State - not only now, but also in all previous years - cannot quickly clear up - it creates and cannot clear up quickly - overdue obligations. On this basis an action plan, an action plan, has been drawn up to speed up and complete the liquidation. But let me say this and end with this, Mr President: of the remaining 2,500,000, 000, or over half, that is, there are due commitments for the liquidation of which the public is not responsible. I will give a typical example: a large part of these obligations is in the courts. In other words, it is the object of dispute between suppliers on the one hand and the Greek State on the other. Evidently, the Greek State cannot go and pay back when a court ruling has not yet been delivered. It is for this very reason that, precisely because the size of the time-limits, for which the public is not responsible, and in cooperation with the European Stability Mechanism, from now on - and I can present this to Parliament in the next few days - the monitoring of the sizes will remove what the Greek State does not have the responsibility. If we remove them, the actual number is close to the 1,000 million euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u284	Mr President, I would like the floor for 20 seconds as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u285	It's 20 seconds, but we'll open a dialogue that doesn't help us. Here, you have the floor, Mr Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u286	Minister, I agree with what you said about dues and whether they affect the primary result. However, what concerns the New Democracy Parliamentary Group is the fact that four years later - you are four years Minister - you are now discovering, since you are committed on 18 March 2018 that they are not being cleared up late. I will therefore present your statement in the Minutes on 14 March 2018 that you are committed - the verb is 'to be bound - for full liquidation in the summer. And today you're telling us that you discovered after four years that this is not possible? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, you are committed to something else. A year ago, you just committed yourself to giving the expenditure overview. I have asked you six questions and you have not been here once for one year. I am tabling this in the Minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u287	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st Grade Argostoli. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Theodora Jacquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u288	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would first like to condemn the attack on SKAI. It is an attack on freelance, democracy and free expression of opinion. A moment ago the Minister responsible from this, the Stepma, pledged that the Greek state would do its best, firstly, not to repeat such phenomena, and secondly, to give justice to the perpetrators of this attack. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 budget is our main budget. This means that the country has now recovered a substantial part of its national sovereignty. Apart from being a balanced budget for the first time after many years, we also have an expansion budget. In other words, we see clearly the issue of benefits and the removal of injustices for specific economic and social groups of citizens who have suffered the most from the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the vote on the annual budget today I would like to refer to something very essential, the need for our country to finally put a class in the institutions and to become what we all want, a normal country. As you have all seen, Europe and the world in recent years have been in a very great turmoil. This will continue to be global regularity for many more decades, economic wars, competition, Europe's division or at best a stagnation on further deepening economic, political and administrative issues. Our country, a small country of the European Union, cannot in any way survive in the sense have a stable path of prosperity, if it is in an environment of internal institutional dismantling, in an environment where the political system before and after the crisis remains the same, in a country where justice operates selectively and slowly, in a public administration which cannot meet modern requirements. In these four years of SYRIZA's governance we have achieved a great deal as faces. The people at the moment in SYRIZA have nothing to do with the institutional corruption of the past, and it is certain that we as a major democratic party are now truly trying to improve the lives of citizens and change the unpleasant everyday life of Greek citizens. However, where we would like to achieve more, and it is the major and crucial for Greece of the future, and that is what will keep us standing in the years ahead, it is the institution building. I am afraid that everything we have done for the citizens, if we do not have a strong institutional organisation that ensures the positive course of our country, with the first political change or possibly our own bad self a little more than that will be lost. It is therefore very important now, with the SYRIZA initiative on constitutional revision, to try to deepen the institutional restructuring and change the country in a way that no kind of regression will be possible anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, in the economy the improvement that has been made in the daily lives of the citizens is undoubtedly very obvious. No one thinks he's got worse days in front of him. The agony of all of us is when and how quickly our lives will be improved. The government's foreign policy initiatives have made the country oasis to stability in the wider region and leaders of the Balkans again. All this positive climate that has been created for us on the international stage has helped in particular to stabilise and develop our economy. Naturally, many problems remain unresolved. The citizens, however, know better than anyone who represents their interests, who is the one performing and achieving the goals he has set, what party and what government has given prospects after so difficult years in this country. Citizens also see and understand that it is no coincidence that no great interests and no one - but no one! - A great businessman from the ones who swept the country over the past few years and operated parasiticly in the economy, does not today support SYRIZA. On the contrary, they are on the side of political corruption because they have done business with them in the past, because they have taken the exculpatory prophecies from justice with them. And obviously they are not interested in increasing the minimum wage, they are not interested in reducing unemployment and saving pensions, they are not interested in any of the things that improve the lives of many. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that when the country is being led to the elections, citizens will respond correctly to this dilemma: they want a government with which their lives will be better with certainty over time or want a neoliberal, dogmatic government, corrupt to the bone, a government that wants to rule to remove from many and to give it to the few? Ladies and gentlemen, there are many commitments the country has made. Greece in this difficult landscape today in Europe does not have the luxury of either following a high deficit path or following a unilateral resistance path. It is very important for us to have an economy and a budget that is not at all times in the need of markets. There is a certain intention of the government, by closing this circle of memoranda, to discuss again with our partners in the direction of reducing primary surpluses, but also further reducing taxation and burdensome arrangements, which have been made in recent years, whose eruption has already begun. I would therefore like to say to the New Democracy which has handed over a country with a deficit of 15.1% of GDP to stop pretending to be crying over the victim because it is the victim of the case and its crocodile tears are not leading anywhere either the country or the economy. I would even say that their own policy, because of the corruption, the interactive and inefficiency policy that characterised it, has had all the objectives of the primary surpluses, but has no positive effect on them. If you want to talk seriously about what we are giving, we must first see what the previous situation was, that is, what the New Democracy did for all these social and economic groups, and how and from whom all these surpluses emerged, because our government and pensions managed to save and divide social solidarity, it gave more than a million and a half citizens and working conditions in the private sector also improved many injustices in the public sector by stopping the payroll, but also by paying retroactively to categories of workers who have been judicially justified. Parliament has already voted to reduce a third of the insurance contributions to free professionals, self-employed persons and farmers and to exclude the payment of the trade fee for farmers - members of agricultural cooperatives. We are practically supporting the agricultural sector by paying State aid de minimises EUR 42,000 to about six thousand farmers in mountainous and disadvantaged areas and EUR 10,200,000 to producers of table peach and nectarines in Pella and Imathia, while the payment of de minimis aid is being considered in the new year and the producers of compact peach that are currently excluded from the arrangements. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On Thursday, the second instalment of the basic payment will be paid, and the last 10% of the ELGA compensation for the damages in 2017 has already been paid. For this year's crop damage has already begun, before any other time, the mission of the findings, which means that the compensation of the ELGA will be paid to farmers in record time this year. Already the Government is working in a fierce way to establish the incompatibility account for the protection of subsidies against seizures, and the reduction of the corporate tax by one percentage point and the reduction of HPAI by 10% in mid-term in 2019 has been voted. In the coming days, the decision of the Ministry of Finance, setting out the criteria for granting the heating oil allowance for the period 2018-2019, according to which, for the first time, the Municipality of Edessa will join the first incentive zone with which a higher subsidy per square metre of residence is foreseen. Finally, the recruitment of three thousand two hundred people for the "Help at Home" programme has already been voted, and the recruitment of some four and a half thousand teachers and skilled staff in special education and six thousand specialists in municipality will proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u289	Mrs. Jackrey, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u290	You will give me a minute, Mr President. As far as the primary surpluses are concerned, I would like to point out that they were not generally the result of a policy of overtaxation, but of an increase in ECA revenue, a much better return on tax administration and the diffusion of taxes in a more objective and fair way. Obviously there are still many injustices and scope for improvement. But when they have all recognised that tax evasion was high in relation to GDP, and we have achieved things in this area, one cannot come and put the general label and describe as overtaxation, and it is the better performance of tax administration. Ladies and gentlemen, this is undoubtedly the best budget in the last decade. The government finally managed to disembowel the country from the vicious circle of monuments and to reverse austerity with expansion policies. These policies obviously need to be improved. There is still much room and much more to change. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Despite the war we have taken, I am sure that the citizens will trust us again, as this is the last budget of the present government. So we will have the opportunity next year to present an even better, more improved and more expansive budget. The country gradually enters the virtuous cycle of economic growth and growth and this means that there will be many opportunities to improve the lives and everyday life of Greek citizens. That, however, should be remembered by the citizens that it did not happen at random. It wasn't just the natural evolution of a situation or it gave us outside. That is why the citizens must be aware that what has been won with so great difficulty can be very easily lost with the return of the New Democracy and the neoliberal policies published by Mr Mitsotakis. Citizens need to know that, so that they do wisely and do not kick a whole four-year hard work and effort...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u291	Mrs. Jackrey, you've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u292	...to safeguard the interests of many, and I am sure citizens will respond to this dilemma in the right way. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u293	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to agree on something. At noon at the Conference of Presidents we were faced with a dilemma. In order to achieve the programme, we should either reduce the speaker's time or tighten the process completely. We decided on the second. Please help in this direction. If the seven minutes are ten, the time won't come. It is certain that some colleagues will not speak at the end. Minister Paul Paul Paulakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard many lies and chronologies before. I think the best answer to all of these is the heated numbers. And I start quickly, because I have too much to say. To understand the size of this year's budget, one has to compare it to what we have received. In 2015 you handed us over expenditure limit for public hospitals and the public health sector 1.504,000 euros, 130,000 euros less than yours in 2014. Where do we reach the 2019 budget as a limit on public health expenditure, hospitals and primary school expenditure? We reach EUR 1,907 000,000, a budgetary difference in total in real and earned terms, in terms of real money and not in general terms, over EUR 700,000,000 over this three-year period, which enabled us to cover the two millions of uninsured, and why we increased expenditure, but also because we reduced the stealing. In 2014 the debts of hospitals - because I hear some things about time, of course, Mr. Juliarakis answered before in relation to the courts - the 300,000,000 currently seen in public hospitals, 100,000, cannot be paid. There's a court claim. Let's go to other numbers. In 2014 total debts of hospitals: If they paid what they had in their funds, they would owe another 730,000,000 euros. In 2015, if they paid what they had in their funds, they would owe another EUR 935,000. In 2016 for the first time in the history of the health system - since the gold years of the PASOK decade, this was the first time - if the hospitals paid what they owed at that time, they would have been left with 35,000 euros. For the first time a positive mark on hospital budgets in 2016. The corresponding result of 2017 was 370,000,000,000 positive surplus, with money in hospital bills. In 2018 it will close with about a positive difference of EUR 180,000,000. Why is that possible? Because we have taken this political option that we will support the public health system, both by increasing the state budget for general taxation, but also by moving resources from the EEA to the public health system. Let's go to evidence. How much did EEAS provide in 2014 to hospitals for primary care in the country? 80,000,000 euros. How much did he give in 2015? 51,000 euros. How much did he give in 2016? 400,000,000 euros. How much did he give in 2017? 593,000 euros. How much does it give 2018? 640,000,000 euros. Take the evidence to keep them from saying that these are air words. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr. Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above figures, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Why is that possible? It was made possible because the FBI gives about 99% of the care contributions to the EEAS. How much did EEAY get from the FBI in 2015? 3,480,000 euros. How much did it get in 2016? 4,124,000 euros. How much did it take in 2017? 4,768.000,000 euros. How much does it take in 2018? 4.790,000 euros. How long were the EEAS dues we received in 2015? 1,704,000 euros. How much is today, in November 2018? 183,000 euros. We're going to the staff, because the second big thing was to strengthen the public health system with personnel. So today, after three and a half years in the National Health System, since October 2015 when we started ruling, they have been on duty - look out, they have been on duty! - a thousand six hundred and fifty-eight permanent doctors, two thousand nine hundred ninety-five auxiliary doctors, plus five hundred fifty who have renewed their term of office three times up to 31 December. How permanent other staff in nursing, paramedical, administrative, etc. have they undertaken? Four thousand sixty-sixty-seven people. How many ancillary other staff has he undertaken? A thousand five hundred sixteen people. With three CEDEFOP notices for the ICES, for the refugee programme the first and the "PHILOS I" took office and worked a thousand two hundred and twenty-six people. It is pending and is in the process of completing for a thousand five hundred and seventy-five persons from "PHILOS II", who are over three hundred of the previous recruitments of the CEDEFOP. How many people took on from the OAED's pioneering programme with full pay, overtime, licences, etc.Huh? Three thousand eight hundred two people. How many serve at the hundreds of a TOMY that's been opened up so far? Eighty - ninety - three persons of whom two hundred fifty - four are doctors. Two hundred sixty - one are already recruited and the rest are pending up to two thousand nine hundred. What do all this get into? Seventeen thousand eighteen people have been serving in the health field for these three years. If I count on all the thousand people we renewed their term of office, they are eighteen thousand. How many of them still pending to take over? Thousands of eight hundred doctors, all declared in various crisis procedures, a thousand five hundred and seventy-five people from "PHILOS II", about four hundred posts from the other permanent staff notices, a thousand seven hundred forty-six forty-six in the WMD, plus a thousand people from the OAED programme of young scientists, the five thousand-person programme, which will be for the hospitals, another half of thousands. All in all, therefore, we are implementing a programme of twenty-four thousand hirings in the health sector, which really needs it and thus balanced the system. Let's go to the payroll. The first increase for a Memorandum period was 400 euros in barren agricultural doctorates. The barren agricultural doctors have done so - I will submit for the record the figures for the staff, because Mr Economou has asked for them - EUR 400 from EUR 200 that was too old and then had been abolished. We made it 430 euros. How much did we find covered in 2015 in these 430 euros? About 60-70 euros. How many are covered today with this raise? About 360 euros. I'll file the list. Newspapers - overtime. How much did we receive them in 2015? We received them 298,000,000 euros. In 2015, we gave 35,000 for payments of your own loans, which you owed to doctors in the previous years, in 2012 and in 2014. How much did we give in 2016? We gave 335,000 euros. How much did we give in 2017? We gave 345,000 euros and these two years, in addition to these two numbers, we gave your other 400,000,000 unpaid loans for overtime and regular newspapers to doctors and overtime to the rest of the ERC workers. How much is it going to be in 2018? It's gonna be 357,000 euros. We gave a 10% increase in on-calls and 10% to 15% to the rest of the night and we gave the rest a recent political decision and not because of the judicial results, 230,000,000 euros retrospectively mixed amount - the net is around 140,000,000 euros - to about twenty-one thousand doctors who served from November 2014 to 31-12-2016 in the public hospitals of the country. We have managed, and despite this rotten bureaucracy you inherited, many hospitals will be paid on December 27 with these retrospectives. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I will also present this list, which shows the numbers of doctors who served today and who are on duty. We also increased by 2,000,000 euros each year from 17,000 euros to 19,000 euros, where doctors in public hospitals are paid from their own resources. Let's go to the ITH. I'm running. How many beds have we received?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u295	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u296	Please, two minutes. It's the evidence, that is, it's our pain over the last three years. We have to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u297	I do not dispute that you are saying interesting things, but no other colleagues will speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u298	I'll do it very quickly. Please. Let's go to the ITH. How many operating beds have we received in 2015? We received four hundred thirty-eight. How much were developed, that is, they had the equipment, but didn't work? It was five hundred seventy-eight. Remember the numbers. They had the machines five hundred seventy - eight and operated four hundred thirty - eight. How much are they working today? Today is the evidence. Five hundred fifty-two and sixty-five developed. I'll testify the evidence showing the number of beds. Another thirty opens up very soon and we will cover it all, because there is currently no vacant position for doctors in ICUs all over Greece. I'm going very quickly to the C.E.A. and I'm going to skip the plays.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u299	Can't you testify all this information in the Minutes to have it? Do you have to tell them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u300	We have strengthened with three hundred forty permanent staff, four additional and ten permanent doctors. Another thirty-seven are waiting for them immediately. We have increased staff newspapers from EUR 2,200 000 to EUR 2,600,000 and staff overtime from EUR 8,942,000 to EUR 11,500,000. We have given a large increase in the budget of 12,000-13,000 euros each year - a double instalment in 2016, 2017, 2018 - because we have also paid a loan from the EEAS for the transfer of heavyly ill and we have also paid your own and PASOK unpaid aerospace loans since the 1990s, amounting to 100,000,000 euros, which we agreed with 48,000 euros...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u301	Minister, we're done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u302	We got ninety ambulances...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u303	Yes, but we're done, Minister. It's ten and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u304	Wait a minute, Mr. President. We replace four hundred and six of the seven hundred fifty ambulances of the EKA fleet that we received. The two hundred seventy-four have already been replaced and thirty-two are in the tender phase. That's all we've done. All of this is the list of projects that I will testify to, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u306	Only 30,000,000 euros from the ESRB in the health field and we're the only ones from the Ministry of Health reserve...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u307	Yes, but you can't go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u308	These three years we've given more than 35,000 euros...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u309	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u310	It's a linen that you did it styling and air studies and has been translated into hundreds of...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u311	My colleague, Mr Pafilis, has the floor. Mr. Paphie, if you don't come, it doesn't stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u312	All right, Mr. President. You show your rigour very strongly to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u313	But please, Minister. It's 12 minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u314	They are elements which the Greek society must hear because they are unfortunately not listening to. That's not what they say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u315	The fellow Members who want to speak must not be heard by society? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u316	They have not been heard either. I'm closing the sentence. We did this because we had a political choice, because we were supported by the people and by the third, because we cut a very large part of the remula, because we did not give EUR 10 000 000 the advertising time and owe EUR 15 000 000 to transplants. For us, one euro counts for two, because we lowered prices. When you don't steal, one euro counts for two. So we'll continue for the next four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u317	Thank you very much. My colleague, Mr Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u318	I am not tempted to answer Mr Polakis, because we have already answered the speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u319	Don't do it. Let it go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u320	I won't. I shall simply say this, one question: in relation to the needs that exist and the possibilities today, is the situation in the health sector better? We will not compare it to the previous ones, although the numbers prosper, but people suffer. That's what a saying says. Has private sector expenditure increased? Is this a gold mine for private clinics, private hospitals everything? Is it true that anyone who has been able to heal better and enjoy better medical services and whoever hasn't been in line, yes or no? Does the cost increase apply to the medicine, yes or no? It's true. So the reality itself finds this to be the case. I'm not going into this. We have not only many days but also a controversy of SYRIZA - a new democracy in particular, but also other parties that are well-known: to encapsulate the people into a double, a new diploma that we have experienced before, modernised, a theatre that the actors and the work are changing, because they are moving in the same strategy, which is not about the modern needs of the workers and the people. These, Prime Minister, are referred to as "Monday" and "Third Presence". Today you say: we will cover everything we can, but that is not the case. That's what your policy says. The enormous potential of society, from scientific, technological progress, from increased productivity of labour, what is happening? Are they becoming a huge wealth that accumulates where? Unstoppable profits in a handful, literally, monopolistic groups of giant businesses. These interests you serve and this option has been made by New Democracy traditionally and by SYRIZA, not late, but overcoming New Democracy, as has other urban parties. Any differences exist with regard to the mixture, as long as the time goes - and it appears in the Chamber - are completely vaporizing. The policy being pursued is a dialogue which has war and an invisible flirt, I would say, with New Democracy and has been said by some ministers - whoever knows how to translate very well - and by some Members. So, one thing is certain: either with one "mixture" - in introductory words the word - or with the other, the workers are living worse and will live worse, not only in relation to their needs, but also in relation to their before and they will reject it. So this rotten system, whether you say anything or not, which is outdated, is a social and historical necessity. Neither does re-engineering fit any longer, nor does the cultivation of illegitimates. And this is the greatest damage on the part of SYRIZA that is supposed to be a left party - supposed to be - that grows delusional for human capitalism. The new is its overthrow. The new is the JRC's proposal. With the socialisation of the means of production we do not need capitalists today. What can we do to them, really? Stealing the workers' sweat? We do not need the anarchy of capitalist production today, but a central scientific design of the economy. We need - society - development on the basis of human needs. We need control of the people's, real working people's power. We need mutually beneficial, foreign policy of peace and friendship, relations with all the peoples and governments and not under the flag of NATO and the imperialists. Greece has all the potential. It's a rich country - I don't want to develop it. It has a scientific workforce, it has a skilled workforce, it has a geostrategic position that can exploit it. This proposal from the JRC is first and foremost addressed to the people for discussion, because, whether you like it or not, this debate has now been opened. We appeal to the people to set up a social alliance that is intercepting, claiming and targeting power. This is the progressive rather than the false dilemma 'who will best manage capitalism'. Progressive is to live better and we can live. Reactive is to capture the whole world, the production of wealth, within a barbaric system. The Government is making two-strokes for a new era: ‘Its policy and the 2019 budget leads to a change of page’. Let me tell you that we agree. Indeed, it changes page, but what page? Page in the same book, which you read with New Democracy and other parties, the book of the capitalist barbarism of the European Union, which is a dictatorship of capital that you have been praised for so many years, and now you are turning the bench that the European Union has fled from its purpose. What was her purpose? Ensure the interests of European capital. What was her policy? The dictatorship of capital throughout Europe. What was her attitude during the crisis? Help or tartars the people and upwards win by banks and multinationals. Of course, the book of NATO and the United States of America. Let me make a little statement quickly: the memos. Destroy, of course. What were the memorials that came with reasonable hurricane, really, in Greece, why were they delayed while they had been in other countries? It was the demands of the capital for loading the workers' crisis, for them to be saved as much as possible and for the recovery, when there is recovery, to increase their profits. What did previous governments do? I say it quickly: Reduction of the price of labour, wages, pensions, lower wages: From 2009 to 2014 it has been reduced to 38.6% of the wages of workers - not ours, it is EUROTAT that you all swear and do not question - 40.3% of the self-employed, 43.8% of the unemployed, 32.5% of the pensioners. And the New Democracy comes out on the tiles now, as if it appeared all of a sudden white and uninfected and defends the interests of the poor and that it is a party which is not of capital, etc. Secondly, a reduction in social costs. A general raid, for reasons we have explained. Third, tax raid. Find out who made the biggest. New Democracy and PASOK or SYRIZA? Well, you both made a big tax raid. Fourthly, privatizations are generalized. Tradition of the wealth that exists to private individuals, because he is both the engine of growth and not the workers, who are the production of wealth. And finally, investment incentives. Withdrawal of any obstacles, I would say scanning literally, to create a paradise on the one hand for the business groups and the hell of the gallery for the workers. What did the government do? What changed from all this? Did he increase wages and pensions? Oh, no. Did it increase income to the employees? Oh, no. Keep cutting. Did it increase income for the unemployed? Oh, no. Did he raise the pensions? Oh, no. He's reduced them more. Did it increase social costs? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Did he make a new tax raid? He did. Is he privatising generalizations? For ninety-nine years, you've taken it all to gambling. Take them, develop the country. I have no time to answer Mr Tasoula for the development that took place in the 1956s to 1966s, as he said. The whole of Greece was delivered to monopolistic businesses, foreigners and locals, the labor and blood of workers from the insurance funds were robbed and the development that some of us experienced was better. Five families in a house. That was the development, which was also necessary, of course, for capitalism. What else did he do? Investment incentives. Now here you are fighting, Mr. Drasakis said so, if I'm not mistaken. You, he says, are talking about entrepreneurship, but we're promoting it. So here's who the fight is. Right in the same direction. And now you're proud of it because you don't cut pensions anymore. But mercy: "other"! That's a flag. ‘They are no longer cut’. Think where you've made the world, cut it off once and for all, and now what do you say? We celebrate why they're not cut off, instead of saying we're giving them back. It has also taken action for the future and let us leave the fourth memos that the New Democracy says. And let's say one more thing. When we say that the third memorandum - at least we - is the worst, why do we say it? Because he incorporated the two precedents and took new measures. And now don't fool people. More: Who's gonna pay for it? The workers. Until when? Until 2060. Reduction of tax-free minimum. It's coming next year. 'Chopter' pensions, 'cutter', European Union Commission. So, with this orchestra, the measures before, now, what do you say? Precisely: "We managed to get the country out of the memorials with society upright." Brain? At least. What society up? 46.3% of Greeks in 2017 lived with less than EUR 382 per month, according to EUROSTAT. Society's up! 25% from 0 to 500 euros a month. Work? Zugla. Six and a half thousand accidents in 2016 - in 2017 and in 2018 we have no evidence, probably bigger - seventy-eight deadly. One is killed in five days, we are being murdered to make his bread. What else does he say? The income decreased from 2008 to 2017 each year of 3.1%, over 38%, i.e. 11% in the years that SYRIZA governs. So is Greece standing up with them? We say it is. But which Greece? It is the Greece of business groups, monopolies, of all those who win. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We agreed, Mr President, that we should also do the dentistry - and you remember that - in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u321	Mr. Palphie, you know there's no secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u322	Yes, but we said that this was institutional. What do you want? Should I ask again why tomorrow to make a fuss? To end today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u323	It's not a matter of fuss, it's up to us to follow the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u324	And they're not the only ones standing. Because they're very upright. That's the ones you were right about. And here's the fight: Who gives more to invest in monopolies and capital to make more profits: you or New Democracy? The New Democracy claims to have the knows-how, i.e. knowledge. You say 'No, you don't. We are better." In practice, this is not only correcting, the flag of NATO, the United States and the European Union rises very high. The government and SYRIZA with left payoffs, as it says, have become "washing machine" of imperialism, the people's killers through their aggressive plans in the area, which devours for the geostrategic upgrade. This means taking part in the Greek capital in the share of energy, markets, roads for profit and that it considers this to be a geostrategic upgrade. You agree and sign all the NATO, USA and European Union war decisions. You all sign them, but everybody. Tell us one you don't sign. Papandreou also put an asterisk on him to make fun of the world. Tell us a NATO decision - which is war decisions, war preparations, nuclear wars and everything else - to which you said 'no'. No decision. But can I tell you something on behalf of the JRC? As much as you are trying to wash their flags, the flags of imperialism are so painted with blood and sweat of tens of millions of people around the world - old and today - who have become indelible. And these flags don't fit by the flags of the EAM, the ELAS and the Democratic Army - you don't invoke him - who fought against the imperialist forces, against the greats of that time. It's literally courageous to invoke it! What is the new budget page? It's a tough class policy. It's always like this in capitalism. I will quickly say what it takes and who the new budget gives: Firstly, more taxes by 1,000,000 euros, yes or no? Yeah. Where's he going to get it from? From the workers and the populace. Reductions of 530,000,000 in the public sector, employees, workers, 300,000 in pensions, 750,000. In the case of the United Kingdom, there is no doubt that, in the case of the United Kingdom, there is no need for a system of compensation for the damage caused to the environment, but there is no need for a system of compensation for the damage caused to the environment and the environment. 000 of the insurance funds - less than 190,000 000 for school meals, 140,000 000 for kindergartens, 200,000 000 for a reduction - I am talking about the rent subsidy, 240,000 000 million for medical expenses. This is the exchange of pensions. What are you doing? You no longer reduce pensions and make this reduction to balance it. So, practically, what did you do? You didn't give the world anything, you took it away to say that we won the non-reduction of pensions. That's the reality. And what the New Democracy says about Ambassadors, etc., says about it because it basically agrees with the strategy and plays a number of election games and more. And what's the Prespes strategy? Integration of the former Yugoslav Republic of NATO - that is the essence - plus the rest, which we have discussed. So how much do they make us 3,300,000,000 plus 1,000,000? They make us 4,300,000,000 euros. This is what the people get from the new budget, plus 60% of indirect taxes. It increases the most anti-grassy tax. Who's he giving? Is he doing the same for capital? Tell us, Prime Minister, at last - put the ministers in - how much did those who have contributed to the crisis in your years have contributed unstoppable profits? What did they pay for? Tell us how much they paid for the tax. How much did they pay? They paid 6%! Do you hear me? 6% paid the wealth tycoons - from the first in the country, to the world shipowners up to the major business groups - to supposedly poor and unhappy Greece! That's 6% and the people 94%! Conversely, things are about what each one wins.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u325	Mr. Paphie, you've been talking eighteen minutes. We must reach agreement on the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u326	Let me finish. Secondly, a reduction in the tax on distributed profits from 15% to 10%. How much does the worker pay? He pays 22%. Why are you reducing them? They're poor. In Omonia they're with a accordion and they're singing to raise money. That's your policy. Hard. It's a gradual reduction. In 45% was tax once, and now it has gone 29% to large businesses and you go to 23%, in order to go to 20%. And the "antisystemic" Golden Dawn says to go to Bulgaria's level. You give 550,000,000 to the business groups from the programs. Really, with what right - where do you get that right? - the money of the workers, who give it with labor and blood and reservations, will you give it to the industrialists to get a cheap, labour force for 2019? Reduction of insurance contributions: Who are you subsidising, really? The job? But you're kidding us. If you want to subsidize the job, you are subsidising the workers, not giving a 50% reduction in insurance contributions. Two billion in investment and in the institutional and classic direction. That's great!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u327	Mr. Paphie, can we reach agreement on the speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u328	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u329	Can we get an agreement until when you're going to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u330	I'm done. If you don't like it, I'll stop. I've been talking once.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u331	But that's not it. You know Mr. Karathanasopoulos has a dentist tomorrow. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u332	Three minutes will have Mr. Karathanasopoulos. I'm done. As far as the institutional level is concerned, what have you changed from the institutional framework that breaks workers? The other guys got pissed off, but you're still going on with it. Did you change...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u333	We didn't do anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u334	Of course you did! You had a hard time strikeing first grade. Secondly, you say 'collective agreements'. And you took the first step: the Brutsi Act - Ahchioglu. You put Ahchioglu next door. What's he doing? It determines the minimum wage. Who? The GFCM negotiations with employers? That's not what they do either. The Minister defines it. I don't want to go on because I don't have time. You know, the New Democracy has become speechless. He can't stand up and choose individual. You choose each other, and all this fight becomes, as Alexa Papapeiga told you. So we tell the people - regardless of what everyone says - that they do not seek to find differences between the government of SYRIZA and the New Democracy, which they intend to make government. But you should know that the people become a lullaby once or twice. Then we can't. The difference can be made to the JRC. We can, with the people at the side, make a difference, against all this misery that drags him and sells him algae for silk ribbons, with a powerful, class movement, with a strong social alliance from the popular strata that will intercept, claim and set the way to overthrow. As for the far right, slowly blood with the risk of the extreme right. Management form is fascism. It turns out historically.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u335	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u336	If you want to fight fascism, you fight in the system that bears it. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Don't tell us that now! You've been sanctifying the European Union for so many years. This is what the European Union has done! So fascism is a genuine child of capitalism, no matter how bad it is, whether you want it or not! And we're gonna crush him and crush him with the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u337	That's what you say! Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u338	You're telling us? Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u339	Colleagues, that's not how the program comes out. I'm telling you to know that. I can't get him out of here. I'm trying to make calls to my colleagues, otherwise I can't. Please very much. Mr. Economou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u340	Who has Mr. Economou changed with, Mr. President? Mr. Economou is after me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u341	Mr. Kotzia, there are mutual changes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u342	Inside, Mr. Kotzia. We didn't take your place. Don't be afraid. Listening to the last budget of SYRIZA, we are obliged to respond to the health issues, as they were raised a moment ago, because after four years of inertia, distortions, ideas for all of Greece, we also have for the health sector...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u343	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u344	... series of lies and an image, which with six documents I will testify to, we will try to reveal it, not for colleagues who will vote obediently on SYRIZA's last state budget, but for the world that follows us. I shall therefore submit six documents, which will reveal the following of the nakedness and lies, which we have heard and heard all the previous time, about health from the political leadership and government of SYRIZA: First, what do we hear from the Minister? It says that 5.2% of public expenditure on the budget is increased. On 19 October 2018, in addition to the draft budget submitted by the Ministry of Finance to the European Commission, on page 2 and in Table 4, the public expenditure for 2018 was 4.9% and for 2019 is 4.8%. It's declining. Otherwise, it's 5.2%! A nice little lie with a SYRIZA signature. I am tabling the relevant document in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, we are going to the bubble and to the great, frightful failure for what we call primary health and family doctors. By the end of 2017, they will open up a total of thirty-nine HEALTHs in sixty-five parts of the country. Who's saying that? Blonde and Bardar. When? This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day It ends in 2018 and we have a hundred TOMY, which operates either with loan doctors from health centers or in health centers, such as in Agrini, or 3rd TOMY, or completely owned these units in mental health centers, see Kavala, either two together, which we put in the Chania Health Center, which is the Minister's constituency, the 1st and the 2nd TOMY. That's the picture of the TOMY. How many doctors will serve or serve with the two - fifty new posts? Five hundred. How many doctors have a family doctor contracted by EEAY? Seven hundred. Noteworthy, this government received two thousand eight hundred family doctors contracts. From the previous government, EEAY had two thousand eight hundred doctors. The two thousand hundred, Mr. Health Minister? In their homes. In other words, a thousand three hundred plus five hundred plus seven hundred family doctors who are in health centers, all of us do two thousand five hundred. Do you know what that means? Once a year the Greek citizen will see his family doctor, and I say this richly, if he has fifteen patients a day, for twelve months, which is neither the case nor the case. Once a year! This is the bubble. I submit to the Minutes and the second document from the Athens Medical Association, which has it all in detail. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thirdly, how much is the private health expenditure, as the National Greek Statistical Authority says, according to the survey of family budgets in 2017? It's 7.3%. We are champions in Europe at the monthly private health expenditure. How much did the previous government receive it in 2012? It was at 6.4%. In other words, during SYRIZA private spending has increased, and even if we talk about the poor population, it has gone to 9.3% and if in households we have a person over sixty-five years, then it goes to 13.4%. We are Europe's champions at private expense over SYRIZA days. I am therefore presenting myself to the Minutes and to the survey of family budgets, which proves where the money goes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's a big pharmaceutical policy. Yesterday, the Minister announced a new pharmaceutical policy in the intergroup committee of Parliament. I read: 2014 was the EUR 607,000 the participation of patients in medicine. In 2017 it was at 805,000 euros. In other words, between 2014 and 2017, within three years, citizens' participation in drugs increased by 270,000,000 euros. Who paid that account? The patient with 370,000,000 euros and the Greek pharmaceutical industry with rebate and Clowback with 1,400,000, with lost jobs, with people leaving abroad because he doesn't find a job here, because the factories are closing and business close. I also make the fourth document in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On October 24, 2018, a month and a half ago, a meeting was held on the Court of Auditors' findings. Mr. Stavura, you'll remember. So we went, Mr. Dendia, to the Senate Hall and were presented by the Ministers, according to and according to the Electoral Conference. What did we read and what did we hear? The budgets of hospitals are considered unrealistic, since revenues are overestimated and expenditure underestimated, as quality characteristics such as increasing patients, uninsured and unrealistic are not taken into account. Indicatively, hospital - what is that, no name? - for providing revenues of EUR 147,000,000, it had revenues of EUR 108,000,000. I mean, 45,500 a.m. difference. But when we saw under the Court of Auditors' report, we read that there was no spending on the most deprived, about the uninsured, sums which were 6.500,000 and were not within the budget. It was 6,500,000 plastics. The EEAS shall not disburse amounts on the basis of hospital invoices. Second observation, others are paid, but others are recorded and others invoiced. These are the surpluses, in your view, but fictitious, of the Court of Auditors, of hospital budgets, to come here to relax - not to say the expression - like what. I am presenting the Court of Auditors' report, which you invited a month and a half ago to the House. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Six, and here's where the crying goes down every time. Impact on public health. Congestion of the life expectancy of the population. First time in chronology, from 81.5 to 81.1. It's a big reduction, and the doctors understand what I'm saying. Population ageing. From 135 the 2012 index went to 148 in 2016. Increase the number of patients with chronic diseases, in the absence of prevention and screening. Increasing infant mortality, from 2,9 the index in 2012 to 4,2 in 2016. Increase in perinatal mortality, from 3.8 in 2011 to 5.4 in 2016. These are elements that show problematic increases in indicators that relate to...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u345	Who has these evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u346	CEDEFOP.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u347	Is that official evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u348	It's official and I'll testify. I told you I'd testify for six papers. As you can see, this is the first time I have spoken without text.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u349	Mr. Economou, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u350	Now let's go where we're always crying. You deliver to us Greece, says CEDEFOP, with three thousand fifty-eight cases of measles in May 2017 and four deaths. Do you know why this happened, Mr. Madda, to protest? A semester of inertia until you hear the scientists' objections and make the first remedial moves to follow the policy of vaccination that the Minister has brought, which says it is not necessary to do. Anyway, one more clue...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u351	You're a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u352	I'm a liar? I will testify, Minister of the Truth, but also the great lie, as evidenced by the documents, that here we said that there is a problem for measles or for the epidemic of the Western Nile virus, which you received in 2014 with fifteen incidents and in 2018 we have three hundred twelve cases, with forty-six dead, Mr Manda. It's from the CDC and I'm filing the paperwork. This is the sixth document.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u353	Mr. Comrade, please, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u354	I'm done. I will also present to you one more point, to remind you, Mr Manda, although I do not think I need to remind you, because you know this better and perhaps you have written the following text. In the SYRIZA programme for health in October 2014, the following words were written: ‘The cuts in public health expenditure since 2010 have resulted in the recurring of epidemics from diseases that had been eradicated from the country and have not been observed for decades, such as malaria and the Western Nile virus, with fatalities, hospitalisation in intensive and incalculable blood damage.’ You wrote these on your schedule...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u355	Mr. Comrade, your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u356	...that is, in the programme and in the statements you made, gentlemen, about epidemics with fifteen cases... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Calm down, gentlemen. ...without the dead, now with a lot of cases and a lot of dead people, no politics...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u357	Mr. Colleague, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u358	I'm sorry, I'm late because I filed the documents. I'm giving you some last papers. I filed one more. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilios Economou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So with the evidence we're filing, I think it's obvious that we're talking about a health that's on a wreckage, lies. You must leave immediately so that the country can breathe and in the health sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u359	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no other way to inform you of the seriousness of the situation than to mention names. In all likelihood, based on time, Mr. Tsiaras, Mrs. Inglezis, Mr. Ursouzidis, Mr. Vroutzis, Mr. Vorides, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, Mr. Philis, Mr. Kritsis will not be able to speak. I'm telling you, to be informed. When the 7 minute becomes 12 minutes, there is indifference for the next Members. Please. Mr Kara - Yousuf has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u360	Mr President, I would like to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u361	There's no way.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u362	I have to answer. Why is there no way?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u363	No way, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u364	Previously, you let Mr. Stakoura answer Mr. Juliarakis without...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u365	Minister, may I ask you something? Is there any doubt that your answer will be of interest? None. It will, however, cause a second answer. Don't you understand that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u366	Why would he cause it? I'll answer the lies he's told.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u367	And Mr. Economou will disprove you. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u368	The lie of the documents I want to prove.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u369	Did I find them? They're official documents of yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u370	Mr. Economou, please. But I am telling you, Minister, that in one minute you will have answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u371	I don't want any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u372	Mr. Colleague, if you'll excuse me very much for being in Stepma, but what am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u373	Mr. Comrade, I'm sorry, too. I must, however, respond to the distortion that Mr Economou did before, who was probably dizzy about the presentation of the data I did before. It is undeniable - and I am talking about the budget - that you have given us in 2015 a expenditure limit of EUR 1,506 000 000 and, at the moment, in 2019, it will reach EUR 1,907,000. If you don't know how this is reflected in the budget, get an accountant to keep you books. You probably don't understand the sizes. The fact that it provides for a hundred and forty-eight own resources and reaches a hundred ten, that is to say, that we cut five euros and a number of other benefits that paid them. That's the way it is. Secondly, it is undeniable that in 2014 the EEA gave 800,000 euros to hospitals and this year it will pay 640,000 euros. Are you questioning that? That's the reality. Thirdly, the greatest lies: this code for the most deprived was what you had as an antidote and a crumb before we brought the legislation for uninsured people. Understood?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u374	Now he's got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u375	Here's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u376	Minister, it's understood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u377	That code...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u378	The Court of Auditors says...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u379	I know. Mr. Economou, don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u380	Minister, Mr. Yousuf is in Stepma. Let's respect my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u381	And last year and this year...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u382	Here, Minister, the papers say...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u383	But is it possible now to exchange cards? Here, we're having a conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u384	He doesn't know what Mr. Economou reads. I repeat that last year and this year, this code that remained in the state budget was given as aid to hospitals - because it did not have to be given anywhere else - Mytilini, Chios, Samos, Kos and Leros - to assist refugees.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u385	You're done, Minister. Mr Kara - Yousuf has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u386	...insecure enters the other big account. Understand, Mr. Economou? We're not giving...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u387	Colleague, the Minister is endless. Please, start your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u388	...two hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u389	Start your speech, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u390	Because I'm holding the elementary respect for the interlocutors, I can't interrupt anyone when he talks. If you have given me the floor, Mr President, I shall continue my speech. I start by protesting about some colleagues who speak as much as they want, because they may think that their Parliament belongs, that they are at home. I believe that Parliament is the home of the people. And I am not talking about the "Home of the People" of Chuchescu. I'm saying this to make things clear. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We have heard too many unambiguous condemnations of today's condemnation, of course, of a terrorist attack on a private channel that took place today. I also condemn unequivocally. But I strongly condemn all forms of violence against freedom of expression, free, independent and unbundled journalism. Let's not forget that. Journalists have been convicted for expressing their free opinion and information in the service of humanity. Speaking today of this year's budget, I do not have much to say. I'm not gonna run out of seven minutes, I believe. We have heard various inaccuracies from representatives of counter-population, not only of the major, but of the minor, so as not to blame them. Our government, however, guarantees that we are happy to bring our first budget to ratification, the first to be tabled outside the suffocation of the Financial Adjustment Programme. 2019 will be a year when we'll find a little smile again. We rediscover the hope that every year we come, we will build a better social state, complete projects and start new ones, get better health and better education. Already, the risk of counterpopulation, which wanted not to abolish the pension cut, has been disproved many times. They didn't believe it. "It was fair, it was done." That's our classic slogan that doesn't like everyone. The application of the cutter was not done. They also said that the final evaluation of the programme would never be completed. Since 21 August, dear friends, we have acted swiftly in favour of the weak, however unlike in some circles. I have been amazed at the speech made by my colleague from Komotini, who referred to the problems of my region, concealing a series of projects that have been completed or launched to improve the daily lives of the people of Thrace. Acknowledging the mother tongue of children from the minority, it was applied for the first time - even pilots - the parallel use of Greek and Turkish in public kindergartens with the aim of better learning the Greek language. This is not what we want for the integration of the minority into society and young children into the general whole of the Greek people? In the context of the emancipation of the Muslim community, the judicial powers of the muft were limited, so that the members of the minority can now resolve the differences that arise between them through the Greek civil courts. A characteristic example of the projects carried out is the Komotini hospital, which was one step ahead of the closure. Today, it has been staffed with additional staff to continue its operation, and it is a great success to obtain the donation from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for the construction of a new, modern hospital. Also, there are structures called local health units, which in Komotini operate successfully two of them. We supported the Komotini and Sappon Secondary Opportunities Schools that mainly attract students from the minority area, which is their problem? They don't have a high school rig. The result is they lose job opportunities, especially in municipality programs. Not to talk about the "Philodimo" that has relieved municipalities and my region. Perhaps we haven't done it yet with people, hundreds of young people, who you, gentlemen of the counterpopulation, ruled before 2015, kicked them out and we are certainly unable to bring them back in four years. We hope and believe that we will be in the next four years in order to start the return of the people we have lost to the loss of our beloved country. When I hear about development from the Neo-Democratic colleagues, I am afraid, because, you know, the growth they are invoking has other qualities than what we mean. Cheap-to-hand growth, with cheap workforce, says, to reduce production costs. Anyway. We want growth that has workers with a decent life. I remember, because I was a MP at the time of 2012, that in 2014 they had started to build, saying, Free Economic Zones, starting from Thrace, with cheap workers and getting few to be rich and still living in misery. And they're teaching us patriotism, ladies and gentlemen. The patriotism that they mean is money, the profit for the few who coexist daily and find common points among themselves, the politicians who serve these well-known interests. I don't want to expand much, I don't have much time. That's the patriotism they're trying to teach us. Money is their homeland, money is their religion, money can be their other values. For us patriotism is the definition of patriotism that our Prime Minister has successfully said in Thessaloniki. patriotism is to love your country, to work for your country, to care for your country, but not to hate the other homelands around you. I do not want to go too far into the specific elements of the budget as they have been analysed by many colleagues who spoke before me. I would, however, like to express the confidence that our things are the best guarantee for the success of our efforts to keep the economy and society on the ground. We want growth with society upright. Like me, you do the right thing. Vote the budget, the country's first memorial budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Karasmanis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, condemn the terrorist attack on SKAI and Kathimerini. It is a criminal act against the workers of free expression, of democracy itself. Mr Paulakis presented to us an idyllic state of health. But I have asked a question for two months about the worrying and disappointing situation in the hospitals of Pella, Giannitsa and Edessa and it does not respond. As all the ministers do not answer the questions we ask. I'm twenty-two years and that thing I've never seen before. I had to ask the Prime Minister himself three months ago, who hopefully listened to me in the television receiver, for a social drama, for a nurse whose services are not allowed to join her husband, who is a professional citizen. Three years this young lady has been forced to take unpaid leave and you realize she's living with a professional soldier's salary. Three months the Prime Minister didn't answer me. I was forced twenty days ago to send him a strict personal letter and by post and by electronic means, and I still have not received an answer. The Left is renowned for its sensitivity. I hope you will put an end to this social drama, to this social Golgotha that this four-member family is going through and allow the couple to work together, Minister. The Army has shown its sensitivity. Where's the Ministry's sensitivity? And I stop at it. Ladies and gentlemen, you are trivialising the first Memorandum of Understanding, and this is another budget for overtaxation, just as the previous ones have been. After all, we must not forget the OECD report, which describes Greece as a country's tax champion. These days we have heard from colleagues from this Stepma speaking in general and vaguely about investments. I ask, then, clearly. Tell us a great investment that has been made in the four years of your governance. And don't tell us about the TAP, because this is the job of our own government, with a budget of 2.5 billion and ten thousand workers, which you in December 2013 voted against. And not only that, but you have denounced that if this investment is made, the environment will be destroyed. And ever since then you've been trying to sabotage it as your own great success. And you even use it as a vehicle for your ruffles. Is it or is it not the definition of phantomism and hypocrisy? Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken in detail and documentary terms in the Committee on Budgets. I made detailed reference to investments in the agricultural sector, which is precisely the one we should invest if we want to contribute to the recovery and development of our economy. Because whatever money we invest here is going to be instantly rewarding. And I say that, because if we win the growth bet on agricultural production, then we will have won half the bet for the country's development. That is exactly what the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme aimed at, which we delivered to you with funds of 6 billion. Here I am opening a parentheses, because yesterday Mr Arahovitis from this Step, perhaps still not informed, said an inaccuracy and committed a political inconvenience. He tried to say that this programme was reinstated by his previous leadership. That's a great lie. I've proved it here. I've filed all the evidence. I don't have the time to analyse it again, but I'll be back in the next few days. So this 6 billion programme is a programme of our own government. The 6 billion was secured by the Samara - Venizelos Government. It was ready for Community money to support agricultural income, but mainly for investments in the primary sector and with a strong multiplier character, with which thousands of jobs are created, and in this way we are fighting unemployment. I do not have time to analyse these measures. However, do I need to remind you once again of what has been said here in Parliament in 2016, that is, on your days, Commissioner Hogan? That the Greek Programme for Rural Development and the Service for Fisheries and Aquaculture can make a decisive contribution to the economic development of Greece if all EU funds are exploited and absorbed in a sustainable and intelligent way. He said it, he heard it, ladies and gentlemen. Borderly, modern, innovative programs have been left on paper and valuable resources mold in Brussels. But he said something else, Mr Hogan, that measure M17 was wrongly abolished with a total budget of EUR 200 million for the strengthening of the ELGA fund and for dealing with the consequences of climate change. It is a situation that we are living every day with phenomena of extreme, damage to agricultural production, while you are doing everything you can to prevent them from being compensated, as you are doing today with the peach producers, to whom you are giving the crumbs of de minimis. You exclude varieties which have been damaged, and you should have compensated them through ELGA. If you compensated through ELGA, the compensation that people would receive would be three and four times more than those crumbs you give through the "de minimis" program, as the rainfall, as evidenced by the regulation, is immediate damage and is covered in insurance by ELGA. But the same thing you have done with farmers. You give them some crumbs, three or four euros your head. As you know, in the past two years, prices of milk have collapsed at incredibly low levels. I don't have time to analyze them. But I will say it in the next few days. We must, however, admit that you are trying to be open-handed and you are sharing alleviations. You're reducing insurance contributions by 1/3. You admit, first of all, the huge failure of the government in 2016's infamous arrangement to transfer from the alleged to the income base and now you show it to us as a provision. It's Hodja's pupper, really outdated practice. So since you have more than doubled contributions, you are now reducing them in 1/3 and that is what you are baptizing. Is it or isn't it Hodja's puppy practice? So this puppy policy is also being implemented with HNPH, which, as you remember, you were pro-electionally saying you would abolish it. But, from 2017 to 2018, you increased him by 35%. I'm presenting to you in the minutes the evidence of the property owners in the Pella Prefecture confirming the truth. [[At this point Mr Georgios Karasmanis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You do the same with the 18% cut in pensions, which you yourself voted on with the third memorandum, with the fourth memorandum and you are voting today. On the other hand, however, we have the Katrugalou law, with which you are cutting down, cutting down, cutting down 35% of basic pensions and 45% of subsidiary pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u393	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u394	I shall conclude, Mr President. Let's not talk about widow's pensions. You separate pensioners from two-speed citizens. So the Left government separates proud old age in patriotics and pedals. I don't have time to analyze it. From there on, to finish, the first Memorandum of Understanding is not differentiated to any of the previous ones, your own, who have led the middle class, the free trader, the retired, the hirer, the farmer to the limits of poverty. The 'Eklidis, give it all', to paraphrase the famous 1989 slogan, is no longer convinced, is not sold in the commonly called, and this will be confirmed by the people in the next elections. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u395	Thank you. Minister Michalis Kalogerou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u396	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I too condemn the criminal attack on SKAI and Kathimerini. Ideological confrontation, even if it is conflict, always takes place in a framework of rules. This framework of the rules itself defines democracy. To say, however, that this ideological conflict can become a source of such criminal acts, in my opinion, makes the executioners of these actions in the game of democracy, that is, what they are seeking. We're going to the budget now. There is an objective event. The objective event is to complete the financial adjustment programme in August 2018. Every time we refuse this objective event, it means that we are indifferent to reality and do not care to be involved in an attempt to heal the wounds that the Memorandum has caused the eight very difficult years for the country. If, on the other hand, we remain stable in a simple wording, in a simple democracies, this is empty. That is why we must all be clear, concrete in reading the specific programmes in this budget and, of course, in provoking ideological confrontation, economic controversy in terms that are distinct or real. There is a political, in my opinion, and economic paradox. We say it is a memorial, the first memorial budget. The answer that comes from Opposition is that "no, it is not, it is not an antimony, because there is a framework of strict supervision". The legislative response comes, the response is through the legislative initiatives launched since October, which, in my opinion, reflect the degree of budgetary freedom. I would remind you quickly: HISPIA, contributions, social dividends, tax reductions on legal persons, retrospectives, housing allowances, the abolition of taxes on legal persons and, of course, the non-repayability of pensions. You are therefore calling for a very strict framework of supervision, while at the same time giving this answer, the answer to the social majority. As soon as that happens, the new argument comes, which has been heard several times today. You are calling on the government and we are being called on to take care - you say - because we are driving the country into a financial derailment, and that is why a fourth memorandum can be provoked, what you said a few months ago has already taken place. Now we're afraid he's probably coming. At the same time you are forced to vote for these measures, saying that you would prefer to have applied another policy mix, which you had captured in 2014, which was supposedly completed by the crisis, based on an unanswered email. This shows that you hold a political account on the one hand, but you also violate elementary logic rules. One budget always moves, in my view, on two lines. It is a technical axis in terms of numbers and a political framework, which reflects the initiatives and actions of government policy. In relation to the numbers, I will be a little unharmed, because I will quote certain figures, which are interested in the world that listens to us, are interested in judges, lawyers, judiciaries and will not be comparable to your own catastrophic results before 2015, but will be comparative in terms of the 2018 budget to show the qualitative difference between the 2018 and 2019 budget. Our Ministry's budget is about 650 million in 2019, and for 2018 we went to 608 million. There is therefore an increase of 42 million. Of course, the distribution of this increase is very important. So we have a 5% increase in the benefits for workers. We have an 18% increase for the Ministry's purchases of goods and services. We have a 2% increase in transfers. We have an increase in the overtime of judicial officers, a measure which certainly improves the issues of speeding up justice. The increase proposed is 500,000 euros. There is an increase in the training permits of judges and judges on the basis of meeting the increased needs for work, while in the exceptional days and night hours of the employees of the detention stores there is a EUR 250,000 credit. In the same spirit, there is an increase in credit for the overtime of judges by EUR 500,000. For reasons of major social interest, an increase is proposed in enterprises to the protection of minors by 95% and to the return of a spectacular increase of 270%. These apply to the Independent Personal Data Authority and to GDP. In addition, there is the first time in this budget a separate budget in relation to the General Secretariat for Crime Policy, namely the policy we are pursuing in detention stores. Quickly I say to you that for the supply of heating fuels - a problem in the Greek detention stores - there is EUR 1.600 000, i.e. an increase of 54% compared to 2018, for the supply of medicines of EUR 1,200,000, or 20% compared to 2018, for travel, education and training costs of EUR 370,000, i.e. an increase of 90% compared to 2018, for the supply of equipment of EUR 207 000, an increase of 196%. Now, there are also increases in the budget in relation to the General Secretariat for Combating Corruption and, of course, the amount in terms of management of the judicial infrastructure is increased, a problem that is also of great importance. There is a spectacular increase in the amounts allocated to renting legal premises. Now, in relation to the worthy planning of the Ministry, as far as legislative initiatives are concerned, these have been announced by our Ministry. The work of the Legislative Committees has been completed. With regard to the upgrading, therefore, of the work of judges and judges, we are reforming the Code of Justice and Court of Justice - reform is ready in relation to the Code of Justice - the Criminal Codes and the Code of Procedure of the Court of Auditors. It will also be important to establish new legal aid for the defence of the weak, and will certainly take into account initiatives, legislative proposals and Members beyond the government majority. We are controlling the issues and the problems that may have been caused by the Code of Civil Procedure and the Bankruptcy Code. Contest procedures shall be completed, in particular notice 1K. And of course it is completed and we receive the FPI and we are also going on with the electronic interconnection of the electronic systems for the administration of justice. Conclusions: The 2019 budget is indeed the first Memorandum of Understanding, it is what you have failed to achieve the years of the crisis that your policies have caused. It is a budget - proof that it was worth giving the 2015 battle, seeing what was going to happen in Europe and what we are observing today. This effort was swept through, undermined the three years of negotiation, where the government succeeded in remaining consistent in its commitments, implementing the so-called 'parallel programme', which you also swept through, keeping society up, not forgetting the glass, preparing the next day with a strategic development plan and at the same time a new social state, to prove that the sacrifices of the Greek people did not go missing. But it is also a left budget. Our plan for reconstruction and relaunching the real economy is not inspired by a fundamentalism of the market that despises the poor and the weak as unnecessary, as waste, because they lack the ability to consume. The Left, as a central political force, recognises that inequality seriously harms democracy. And in the economic dimensions this left-wing policy follows the project which clearly shows distances from the neoliberal post-democracy that inspires new right-wing and far-right authoritarianism, currents which we know very well converging to the deregulation of the social state and the labour market, which so fascinates the right. For the Left, which proves that he knows very well from numbers now, the economic growth that we have achieved is not a purpose but a means of diffusing wealth to society. At the same time, we have the will to continue with courage and consistency the policy of conflict with the interests of the few who look forward to a pre-democratic domination. Unfortunately, anyone who does not recognize the positive features at the moment offers bad services in the country. We have, finally - and I conclude - a flaw, solidarity. The way we think and feel, the way we feel is indeed quite different from the one who gave rise to the problems and therefore constitutes a genuinely living alternative and a proposal to resolve them. That's why we do it day after day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u397	My colleague, Mr Syrigos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u398	Mr President, I will try to stay in this debate, detecting what I consider critical from the text, because that is what I think is of value. The preamble to the draft budget report states that ‘In 2019 is the year marking the country's reintegration into the international economic system and launching a gradual shift in budgetary policy from the multiannual adjustment to the rationalised expansion.’ How did that happen? Explains. ‘The fiscal policy of the years 2015-2018 has remained geared to correcting the country's structural budgetary balances and consolidating the credibility of economic policy.’ They were first on our feet, and now by reasoned steps, that is, slow but firm, we are reintegrating ourselves into the international economic system, from which we have effectively been expelled because of the economic crisis of the memoranda and lending. It is important this step and more importantly the prospects since August 2018. This is reflected in the measures announced by the Prime Minister and implemented by one - one. It also appears from its print on the budget that we are discussing. Distribution of social dividends this year, abolition of pensions, reduction of insurance contributions by farmers and free traders, payment of retroactive special wages. In addition to this, the Commission considers that, in accordance with Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). Once again, the text shows this. Nothing out of text. I believe that in these debates we should revert and be able to comment critically on the texts. In support of the above, it is sufficient to read in chapters 1 and 2 of the budget, in Table 1.3 ‘Basic sizes of the Greek economy’ and the opinion of the Greek Financial Council of L.4270/2014, which seems to adopt the macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts on which the budget is based. Because much has been said about health, one example I can bring for their rejection: the great steps taken on our islands, the helicopter of the EKAB in Syros, the Santorini Hospital, the Artificial Nefruit Unit in Naxos and others. There's more to report. I would mention these, reminding you of the words 'controlling those who are lying'. Ladies and gentlemen, on this exit of August 2018 and the reasoned steps are based, not only on the announced and already implemented measures, but I have the impression that that is where the announcements of the opposition are based, which is lagging behind, concealing that she has taken air for various proposals from this fact. Consider this as an argumentum a contrario, on the contrary, to strengthen my arguments. Without the necessary and adequate treaty of the exit of August this year, she would not have itself proposed any measures of what she has been unreasonable - and not reasoned - she is now proposing. I conclude my speech with a reflection and a point. The concern is related to a group of our fellow citizens, their confessors and their losses. You know, there's a lot of anxiety. I know the difficulties and problems. However, I think there should be an answer even for the future. Labelling. It is not only enough to improve situations, legislative initiatives or the appropriate sizes of the statistics needed to move forward. We also need a visionary mixture of policies based on the nerve, confidence and optimism of our own and of our people. This is what we are trying to offer and we are slowly doing with political and legislative intervention, not only in the economy, but also in the rights and foreign policy and in other vital areas. Ladies and gentlemen, politics as a matter of urgency returns. This is the greatest achievement in recent years of SYRIZA's governance. Greece will give its battle next to the democratic forces of European countries against the dark irrational forces that seek Greece, Europe and the world to appear as something new and antisystemic, concealing that it is the old microbial of fear, intolerance and authoritarianism, which attempts to get out of the tarts sent by the victories of the people after World War II. As for those who dream of electoral triumphs and the like, I have to tell them that these are legitimate ambitions, of course, but at the level of popular self-interest that makes dreams of a chime or possibly child dreams, and let this not be considered insulting. Always remember that the “night takes out bishop and dawn metropolitan”. One more thing, apart from the text, for philosophers, linguists and refreshing in history and historical events: Anyone who wants to enrich his knowledge, let him look for what Ampensendar is, when it was published by whom. "Olvius, who was a historian of historians, was learning." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the consistency in time. You achieved the impossible today. You spoke less than the time you had. Mr Katsaniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr President. Today is a day when we will all have to condemn the attack on 'Kathmerini' and 'Skai'. Allow me, since I have spent eight years in this building professionally, to tell my fellow Members courage. Our job is to condemn, the government's job is to immediately arrest the wretched terrorists. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the last budget of the outgoing SYRIZA Government - ANEL. The fact that he is the last is the only good news of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you will surely want to forget your recent past. You seek to zero the time clock and convince us that you are just starting. You're making a big mistake, and everyone knows it. You know that, too. You are finishing a catastrophic governance, a governance that captured the economy and the country in the overcrowd. And you did it without being ashamed. You have baptized your inability to deceive and your ideas "progressive policy". You have created a budget that you anticipate as social benefits only comes from heavy taxation. You have created a budget, which is generally referred to infinitely infinitely in terms of growth, without any direction at all. And that makes sense. You don't believe in growth, you don't believe in wealth production, you don't believe in every citizen's ability to improve their level of life. It is not possible to form a serious and development budget. Instead of jobs, growth and reduction of taxes, you have chosen taxes everywhere. In your day Greek taxpayers paid taxes for over 150 billion euros, almost the GDP of the country and a large part of them was not even a Memorandum obligation. It was your choice. The middle class paid the heaviest price and did so on purpose not only to blame the 'Media-Europeans', as Mr Kritsis once said, but to punish the labour force, to punish every citizen's right to personal and family growth. I know, you hear the word "process" and you pull pyres out. For you those who have life and property are class enemies and let them have them honestly, with effort and a lot of work. For you professionals, traders, doctors, lawyers, engineers, farmers are only useful to take taxes. So listen to it, well. This place and these citizens, you have measured them wrong. Greece was built stone by people of the middle class, by people who knew that only work brings the pretext. The middle class is the country's balance. Without it there is no prosperity, social peace and cohesion. And this middle-class, whether you like it or not, will rise up again, to keep Greece standing, and Greece, a Greece that is not compatible with poverty benefits, but will claim new wealth and better wages, a Greece that is not content with an institution, but will produce, innovate and excellence. You want to rule a country of poor citizens. We want to give vision and hope to a country of free people. That's our big difference. And this big difference, you have it now and with the citizens who will soon show you the way out, because this society has been betrayed by your lies and will punish you. No matter what slogans you use, no matter how much election gifts you make, no matter how divisive you are, there is a great popular front represented by the New Democracy. He wants Greece back the truth, the justice, the preparedness, the national dignity, a people's front which in the next elections will regain the homeland you have betrayed. You handed over the public property, even the ancient monuments to the superstition, handed over a name, Macedonian identity and language to the Skopje. You handed over national education and want to hand over religion. You won't catch up, your days are already over. In the next elections, the big political change is coming. A major political change, which will restore the credibility of the country, a major political change that will not bring back poverty and over-taxation budgets. Only through a major political change will your destructive policies be stopped. Whatever you've got in your hands, you've made it ashes, you've broken it up. As an example, I will mention an area that should be the main pillar of the country's development: the primary sector. Let me remind you what you have done: you have increased the advance payment of the income tax and the solidarity levy, you have included the parcels in the supplementary ENPI, providing only temporary suspension, you have abolished the reimbursement of excise duty on diesel for agricultural machinery and, together with the general increase in this tax by 21%, the cost of production has been dismantled. Increase VAT on agricultural supplies from 13% to 24% and then decrease again. Remove the OGA. You have almost tripled the level of insurance contributions to farmers, you have introduced a excise duty on wine, which you have just taken back. In short, you have done everything possible to eliminate farmers and agricultural production. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. So no one has anything to expect from you. No one can stand you anymore. You hear it everywhere in society, you feel it wherever you are. And the more you still act like the progressives, the more you make a fool of yourself. But that's your thing. After all, you will soon be a past and then all of us in the New Democracy know that we need to rebuild ourselves and start a very heavy task, give vision and confidence to the Greeks, power and dignity in the country, and revert to the machines of society and the economy. With confidence in our productive powers, we will make our country a normal European country again. And this day is very close. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u401	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Georgios Chogas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u402	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the unambiguous condemnation of the terrorist attack on the 'SCAI' is not simply self-evident, but is an inevitable political position. I'm coming to the budget now. The debate on the 2019 budget, at the outset of the memorandum period, is not merely interesting, it is a landmark, a bookmark, which marks the entry into a new, different reality, defines that specific political notion, on which the forecasts for next year will be filled, but forecasts of special weight and special interest, provisions that will justify the different political and ideological perceptions that will or will not justify the struggles for democracy, social justice, equality, economic development. Inside the ruins of the Memorandum Greece, however, the reference to the historic route, the shocking aspects of the temptational policy, the search for acts or omissions and the causes that have broken down our country, as well as the new reality which is slowly flooding Greece. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, in the House of Zappion Greece has sighed with false reports of exit from the crisis, with fraudulent promises of the future, with false and non-existent economic sizes. In 2014, when the country's GDP had already fallen to the out-of-real minus 25% and unemployment reached 27%, the ten-year bond borrowing rates were launched at 8% to 9% and the country's exit from the memoranda fantasized unthinkable, you contemplated that the country was before the crisis. Unfortunately, however, the goal of growth from 2.5% was demolished to 0.25%, breaking all chances of success. Therefore, your rhetoric about getting out of the crisis was a cheap political fraud, a divorce with reality, noted the danger and absolute inability of managing the country's needs and if they are combined with your agreement on the surpluses for the next years of 2015, which is 4.5%, then some 20 billion euros would still be added to the total measures of 65 billion that you have taken for the period 2010-2014. To compensate for this incompetence, you invented the EUR 86 billion, which has been made 100 billion and 200 billion, as you were unscrupulously fighting, with which our General Government of 2015 allegedly burdened the economy. But in our counter-project how this was possible, when the debt at the end of 2014 was at EUR 324 billion and at the end of 2015 at EUR 321 billion, you said nothing at all. I will not go into details about the country's first memorandum budget, since the figures have already been clearly presented by my SYRIZA colleagues, but your political nightmare, the SYRIZA's "Woman Road" continues, since our government has avoided the death spiral, that is, lasting economic caging in the Memorandums and, completing the evaluations, managed to divert the significant debt relief, which was sine qua non for the country's progress and the redeployment of the Greek economy, and finally achieved its growth for six consecutive quarters, with a forecast for 2019 for growth in 2.5%, with GDP growing and debt falling to 167,5 billion in 2020 with the agreement of all the other European Union's institutions, describing this development as an unprecedented fiscal adjustment. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, culminating in the reference to the 2019 budget and at the same time describing our self-criticism, the political priorities of the SYRIZA Government are seen, the classicity of choices that a left government must make so that the mixture of the applicable policy is matched with the vulnerable social groups, for a society of equal opportunities, promoting the principle of social equality and solidarity. However, what marks the 2019 budget is the correlation between the consistency and the truth of the government's announcements with the immediate implementation of them, which exposes your current political attitude, a lasting use of evidence that is far from your civil courtesy, which is far from your historical connection with your moderate right-wing origin, causing a sound course of competition for power. Under these circumstances, the 2019 budget, incorporating PPC announcements, which have already made state law forced you into subjection, after you voted for everything that has happened, canceled and slandered for eight years and then forced you to accept critical social measures, without austerity, but with reliefs for the weak and middle-class, with the return of collective bargaining, the cancellation of the underpaid wage and the gradual increase in the minimum wage, with reductions in insurance contributions to the free professionals, young people under twenty-five years old, farmers, a reduction in HICP, aid of approximately EUR 70 to 200 in salaries with housing allowance, a gradual reduction in the income tax of legal persons from 29% to 25% in depth, abolition of the pay fee for cooperative farmers, restoring about three thousand employees in the ‘Boards’ programme and more than four-year-year-olds-year-olds in the ‘Board-Travel’ programme. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. However, what has deprived your political dignity was your inability to assist in the government's national effort to prevent pensions from being reduced by cutting down on personal differences. Thus, your analgesic behavior and your micropsy, which only expected political benefits, indifferent to the fate of hundreds of thousands of pensioners, ranked you in the culminating political forces of the Greek Parliament. However, what marked your political identity was the unjust, undivided and biased view that the reduction of pensions was supposed to be the result of an exchange with the Embassy agreement, a profoundly insulting view of the country, a deep-minded view of the Greek people, which led to parliamentary adversity within the limits of the diversion of Mr. Mitsotakis, who glorified the Prime Minister of the country. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, what you are most afraid of may not be SYRIZA's strength in time, but the creation of a habit and a surrounding atmosphere that the governance of the country does not need your institutional role, which you have squeeze, that you are unable to offer and are not necessary, that you have not looked at the past, that you have never looked at the Greek people in the face of the waste, you have not honestly spoken to him and you have not apologized for the suffering you have caused him and the misfortunes you have accumulated and the suicides that would not become if you did not reach the country on the edge of the cliff, about the waste, about the unreasonable unemployment, about the closure of offices and businesses, about the poor dinner, about the faintness of children in the schools, about the seas that you did not pay, about the day-to-to-day waste disposal, about the unreasonable unemployment, about the closure of office and business, about the moneylessness of the money of the poorer banks in KLEVANAFAROVANAid's to sellers for their money for their money to sellers's to sellers's. This is your unforgettable political nightmare, which will hardly leave you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, this budget, the first since the exit from the memoranda, aims to put order in the chaos imposed by the Memorandums, gradually restore the country's economic dynamic and our full national dignity. That is why you have to vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister for Health, Mr. Xanthos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u404	Ladies and gentlemen, I think this debate is taking place in a qualitatively different context. For the first time after eight years, we do not have the environment of the prolonged crisis in the Memorandum commitment and the strict budgetary committee. That's the truth as much as some people don't like. So we are talking in other terms and this is a huge change in the climate - and economic and social - in the country. It is clear from the budget which goes to the vote that there is a gradual retreat of the very harsh austerity actually implemented in previous years due to the country's bankruptcy and there is also a distinctly enhanced support for the social state and public care in the next year. We have an increased expenditure ceiling of EUR 128.5 million for the closed budgets of the medicine and other benefits of the EEAS. We have 92.5 million for the closed budgets and 36 million for other operating costs, other than drugs, of hospitals. This is a significant financial support, which comes up in prosthetics and cumulatives after four years, in the context of the previous medium-term 2015-2018, where we have cumulatively had an increase in operating expenditure of EUR 674 million over a period of four years. The new medium-term also follows a total of EUR 470,000 - 500 000 - 000 - euros in the order of the new medium-term. It is therefore a significant financial investment in public care, in public health, which I think really along with the blood supply of the health system, as Mr Paulakis said earlier, with very detailed figures, this combination of financial and operational support with human resources has allowed the survival of public care in the country and today we can talk about how we will gradually improve services and how we will focus more on the quality of care. So neither the narratives and scenarios we hear each year about new cuts apply. It has been shown that the current revenues from the Health System and the EEAS outweigh the planned expenditure limit, which is clearly defined by the medium-term programme. We have also demonstrated that, when necessary in the course of the year, for reasons of documentary needs, there is additional aid, this in consultation with the Ministry of Finance and the General Accounting Office of the State is happening and we have done so this year with additional resources in hospitals that really needed, because the demand has increased, because there has been an increase in the turnover of hospitals due to the aid to human resources, because the range of services covered has increased. Paul Paulakis previously referred to the system’s macroeconomic sizes. I think it is important to recall interventions which, of course, concern the daily lives of the citizens. And I think we should always remind ourselves of the critical and top section of universal coverage and guaranteed access for uninsured citizens to medical care in our country. That is what I think is the big change. This led, until the eleventh month, eight hundred and two thousand people uninsured, only with their AMKA, with parity and dignity, to prescribe their medications, to run tests on the public health system. The cost of their medicines is EUR 205 million so far, i.e. medicines purchased from the private drugs of the EEA. Of course, we must not forget the deletion of debts of EUR 28 million, which had been assured in respect of the uninsured people who have forced the health system, because the need was very urgent, had taken care of them. Secondly, significant relief - but we must always remind her - was the collapse of the 5 euro ticket, less EUR 22 million of relief and a reduction in charges for the citizen. Reduction of EUR 40 million for chronic patients regulating their condition with generic drugs. This has been true since September. They belonged to the category of illness that was 10% involved. Reduction of EUR 20 million in total to the patient's participation due to the cut in the EUR 1 per recipe, because we have integrated all medicines into a recipe. Three hundred and fifty thousand free visits to family doctors in local health units within just a few months of operation. These visits were not covered in the previous period by the health system. It is an additional important economic relief, but also from the point of view of the quality of care, I think it is a very important intervention. Provision in the 2019 budget for dental care of 40m euros of the child population, which has been done by the public and the insurance system for decades now. For the first time, therefore, the EEA, and therefore in the broad sense of the state, will meet the dental needs of children who today have borne 100% of their families. Reduction of the participation in medicines for chronic patients belonging to the categories of special diseases such as psoriasis, inflammatory bowel disease, etc., free administration to oncological patients of additional medicines associated with the side effects and effects of the main disease. I therefore think that this combination, first of all of universal coverage and secondly of strengthening and supporting the public health system was the crucial element in affecting and alleviating health inequalities and now we have measurable indicators for this. There's the index of unsatisfied medical needs. It is the percentage of population that states that for various reasons, mainly economic, it cannot satisfy vital health requirements. This indicator was in 2009 before the crisis of 4.1% of the population. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Let me conclude, Mr President. In 2015-2016 it reached 14.4% and immediately thereafter, one year after intervention for uninsured persons, it falls to 10.9%. With regard to the lower economic strata in the country, the last 20% on the social pyramid, that is where this indicator is halved. This is a proof of reducing inequalities, this is proof that equality policies are being promoted at this time in the very sensitive area of health, and I think we all understand the great value that this has for both the dignity of people and for social cohesion. Allow me to say here a word more. We know that good health is not just a case of good care services. Health is a complex phenomenon and there are so-called social healthmakers. There are social and economic factors that either strengthen health or strengthen the disease. And that is why it is very important to understand that the interventions which have been made at this time in terms of social protection and welfare policy, measures on the humanitarian crisis, social solidarity income, measures on child poverty, housing benefits, nutritional support for people with very low incomes, all of which are interventions which, apart from social cohesion, are also investment in the better health of the population. That's what modern approach says, that's what the World Health Organisation says, that's what all the serious studies around the world say. We know that inequality societies have worse health. And that is why I believe that political programmes and political plans are needed and a political staff can serve these changes. So we have been able to rescue public care with a great deal of effort in these years. We have succeeded in keeping the health system upright, covering the world in a universal way without discrepancies, saying very clearly that corruption and remulsion are not normal in the health sector and that there is a political plan that includes the moralisation of the system. In particular, we have managed to move forward with critical and vital reforms in the field of primary care. Here I would like to say that it really is imprudent to be criticised by political forces who fully reorganised public structures in 2014, two and a half to three thousand skilled doctors massed off the system, left uncovered health in the world and go for the steps, for the delays and for the real problems that have a new model developed in the country. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] For the first time, we have an institution of a family doctor in Greece. Previously contracted with EEA doctors apparently did not have the culture, education, or the philosophy of family doctors and the holistic care of people’s health needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u405	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u406	It is therefore a new intervention that is being promoted at the moment. I think this strengthens the vision of public care in terms of universality, equality, social justice and, above all, efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u407	Thank you, Minister. Mr Dimitris Konstantopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u408	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the fourth budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which marks the beginning of the election period and reflects the virtual image of the economy. However, it is one thing to note: the economy is basically in recession, despite the ambitious efforts of employers, workers and productive operators. The Government promises benefits, benefits arising from overtaxation, benefits derived from the loans, which we will pay with interest. I remember here in plenary that the Minister for Finance, Mr Chakalotos, has committed himself, that he will resign if tax-free is reduced. I am afraid, therefore, that the government will be led to the abolition of duty-free in order to be able to meet the budgetary obligations it itself presents today. However, I am not concerned about the Minister. I am concerned about the result, the result that will bring new economic bleedings for employees and pensioners, that is, what? Their complete invasion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u409	Don't be afraid, it won't happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u410	You, Mr Ministers, however, instead of looking at your mistakes, invoke the vicious political system of the past, which is due to all the sufferings of the country, you too today are not a continuation of the previous governments, you are also courageous today, and you are not reproducing photographic selections of managers. Nepotism, opacity, secret foreign policy, bilingualism, paradoxology, scandalology. However, no reference to the period 2004-2009, the derailment period, the derailment period of the deficit and the pharmacy expenditure. And yet, unconscious and unambiguous! I wonder, Mr. Ministers: Who do you cover? Why this selective amnesia, gentlemen of the government? Your responsibilities too many. The conclusions of yours. However, you are denouncing and banning the state of partyism, which you today, at the same time, are maintaining with the same practices of the past, even though you are spending on them. You are opening up, Ministers, top issues, without any consultation, without any social dialogue, without any sense of responsibility, such as scorpion, Church-State relations, Constitutional Review, self-government. In fact, with "CLEARED" we see what? They are given responsibility again to local government without resources. The conclusions of yours, then. And all this, why? To buy political time. At the same time, huge is the deadlock in society, in youth, in pensioners, in employees, in microprofessionals. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a budget that appears to be the first memorandum and should be a developmentist here and really lead to the markets. Instead, what do we see? The 2019 budget incorporates all measures, taxes and cuts in the third unnecessarily important memorandum, as well as the medium-term, which amounts to EUR 29.3 billion. It is therefore a budget package for the overcrowding and a budgetary memorandum. Ladies and gentlemen, development means substantial reforms in the state, incentives for investment with attractive proposals to foreign and domestic investors, incentives for young people who left the country in search of work abroad to return, support the primary sector for substantial productive reconstruction, support for tourism, support for shipping, support for energy, abolition of pluralism and bureaucracy, which is really the great enemy of development. Let me remind you that from 2015 until today all your forecasts of growth from the budgets you submitted have not been verified. However, today you are anticipating surpluses by increasing indirect taxes and by crushing the middle class. At the same time, the government’s dues to private individuals amount to 2.6 billion, when the 6 billion-dollar that the country received from the European Stability Mechanism had to be zeroed by 20 August 2018. Instead, you are reducing the Public Investment Programme by 550 million, which is the main axis for the development of the country. The conclusions, then, are yours. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 budget creates an economic drying on the market and a lack of liquidity, while at the same time, it provides for a reduction in social budget expenditure by 470 million, such as OAED unemployment benefits and EEA sickness benefits. So the social state in the excerpt! The government is talking about reducing unemployment when no conditions are created for sustainable jobs and long-term employment. On the contrary, parttime work, as well as hourly work, is increasing. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the demographic problem and I ask: what new couple can today have a family? What new couple can today put in his mind that he can really set up a housewife? What's our support for the multitude? What's our support for the tritex? As a third party, I know the needs of a family with three children. Actually, no support. Greece is ageing and we just observe. Shame on you! Nothing else. Unemployment. I would remind you that the International Labour Office in a recent survey report found that in Greece wages decreased by 3.7% in 2017. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The government talks about a reduction in corporate taxation, when it itself increased the tax rate by 29%. It speaks of abolishing the excise duty on wine when it itself introduced this charge. He talks about the cancellation of the pension cut from 1-1-2019, which we voted days ago, when he chose to institutionalise the cuts with the Katrugalos law, where the NSA abolished and made the widow's pensions. I mean, we're faking and contradicting. Gentlemen of the government, the economic crisis remains. Financially, the Memorandums are not over. It's here embedded in your budget. What is the finding? You rule on the basis of polls. The benefits of the last few days, moreover, confirm this. The country, however, cannot be drawn into an uncertain environment, with insecurity and deadlock. We need national understanding and national responsibility. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the polls do not elect governments, and we are sure that this can be brought between SYRIZA and the New Democracy will not lead anywhere. The Change Movement can and will overthrow. Ladies and gentlemen, we, the Change Movement, are the party that created the social state, the party that really changed Greece, the party that lifted the burden of not going bankrupt, when you were all here an anti-immemorandum voices in the Constitution. In fact, I would remind you of what you did at the time: you were trembling the PASOK government and Parliamentary Group, which lifted up on its own, this heroic group, the burden of not going bankrupt. Because then, of course, you also came to the road the Orthodox and to the road to the national strategy that we all drew up. Today the Change Movement, PASOK, guarantees growth, social justice, the prosperity of the country, with our integrated programme "Project Greece".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u411	Mr. Constantopoulos, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u412	I'm closing, Mr. President. We with the "Project Greece", our programme, limit overtaxation, austerity. We are proposing growth in the face of the crisis and, at the same time, we support the country's productive forces. So we can optimize the future. That is why the Democratic Reconciliation, the Change Movement today is not another option. It is the only solution that guarantees the country's exit from the crisis and the memorials really, with vision, with design, with executives capable of doing so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u413	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u414	We are voting against this budget because it does not lead to growth and why it does not take the country out of the crisis and the deadlock. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I condemn the terrorist attack on 'SKAI' in turn. It is a blow to democracy, it is a blow to freedom of the press, so I strongly condemn it, waiting for the government to do what is self-evident: to find the terrorists, to defeat democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u415	Thank you. Mrs Ithanasia Ignastopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, August 2018 is a cut-off. It is a section not only for leaving the memorials, from this vicious circle in which those who today lift the finger as if we have suffered amnesia, but also for another main reason. The changes in the battle position that this government has introduced since January 2015 are inspiring. By 2015 and despite the crisis, despite the memorials, the battle positions of the previous governments were the ones that led us to the crisis: the outshore, corruption and complexity, the spread of public money - we have heard them, we have seen them, they have been examined and we know them now - but, above all, the great interests. With this government, with a thousand two measures which have also been heard about uninsured people, the social allowance, the school meals, the redistribution of the allowance to families, children, a very important measure, because Mr Mitsotakis told us about the 2 000 euros to each child, a Greek bird. We give every child, regardless of religion, race, etc. - we've changed the battle positions for those who were most affected by the war. Because we had entered a war, such as neoliberal capitalism, wars of economic strangulation in the 21st century. So we've changed the battle positions so that the front doesn't collapse. Because the forehead collapses, when the large mass of the population, the one most in need, is marginalized, it becomes invisible from the public space, that is, it ceases to have the status of the citizen. We have changed our battle positions and we are now continuing with this programme, with this very programme. That is why the budget is extended to the welfare state, social welfare, health and education. I read the New Democracy programme very carefully. If one leaves the rationale on the side, what seems clear - the Chief of New Democracy has said - it is not just'students', it is schools that can provide local resources. That'll be better. We're talking about public schools. What he says is that the laws we have brought us to protect the teachers who work in private schools, that is, education as a public good from wherever it comes, will end. Read New Democracy program. The additional benefits, after evaluation, will be awarded to teachers, etc. The main thing, however, is higher education and the privatization of higher education. In this country there are some great traditions, historical traditions, which exist in European countries too. One of the great traditions is the democratisation of the public space, the expansion of the public space, and that was achieved thanks to public education, particularly in higher education. This New Democracy, and not only the New Democracy, but also the KINAL together, and the DISSY, want to take it out. Mr. Mitsotakis at the conference in New Democracy said he'd do panoramics for the middle class. He forgets one thing: the middle class is a product, it is a result of the enlargement and democratisation of the public space. There can be no middle class without public space. This is the alphabet of the political history of all of Europe and this country. And there a question arises to me: How is the New Democracy, which is in favour of traditions, some such fundamental traditions of this place throwing them aside as if they had not happened? That's neoliberalism. Ignore the historical continuity that has to do with social claims, democratisation, the formation of the concept of citizens, the formation of the class stratification of society, so its claims. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] So medium-sized, then, with privatized everything cannot exist and we saw it started before the crisis. Since when did the middle class begin to collapse? The middle-class cannot exist without a fair tax system, which did not exist before the crisis. We had tax exemptions, tax evasions for the great wealth. We did not have support for a fair tax system, and that is why the crisis found the country unarmed and we had all that we had. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I don't have time, unfortunately. I'll ask for two minutes, Mr. President. But I'm going to say another point. They also said MEPs of the New Democracy and the DISSY for the surplus and for all of this, the great surplus that the government has brought. I won't remember theirs 4%, 4.5%. I saw Mr. Webber at the conference in New Democracy. Do we forget what Mr. Webber is? Because a large part of the policy is being played in Europe. Do we forget that it is from the European People's Party, what is in favour of the most obscene austerity in Europe, in favour of strict budgetary rules, those that make peoples and in France and elsewhere to rise up? That's all he forgets. If, then, the New Democracy is against the surpluses, and so on, it will not allow a politician like Weber to come out. And I'll get to the last point. Mr. Mitsotakis also said here in the House and in the New Democracy conference that the Prime Minister was exchanging the pension cut with the Macedonian. I would say that it is in the polarisation that democracy creates - do not fear hard controversy, that is democracy - I would say that it is in this context and that it does not matter, let us take it that way. He repeated it at the conference. Mr. Samaras spoke. Here is a big issue: The exchange of the pension cuts with Macedonian directly refers to the heart of the post-Greek. What did they say then? "The people who followed the Left, who supported the social claims, were Emoburgers". The 'Emobiles' is coming back. Is Mr. Mitsotakis a extreme right? No, of course not. Is the New Democracy as a whole far right? Of course not, of course, Mr Dendias also said. Mr Mitsotakis, however, is a hard neoliberal, so from history he is interested in tearing out those roots that have kept the cohesion of society, their democracy and have completely eliminated the post-war speech. A hard neoliberal allows the Crescent Right, gives her a comfortable step, because by lifting this side of history has allowed all the weeds of the past to grow again. He is not Vebber Nazi when he says "final solution to migration", but he has adopted the whole rhetoric because he does not understand the weight of history, because he is neoliberal. And that's where he needs a lot of attention. We are proud of both this budget and the Prespecies Agreement and will support it all, because we do not want to see a post-election climate and bankruptcy in that country again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u417	Thank you to Mrs. Anagnastopoulou. The Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. King has the floor. Come on, Minister, you have eight minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u418	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by tabling the 2019 budget, we are turning a page into our country, and we are proud of it, no matter how many, for small-party reasons, are trying to deceive it. However, the Greek people know and recognize the effort we are making. After eight years of budgetary restrictions and political austerity, we came to the clearing. We have now come to normality by tabling a budget in the standards of the euro area countries. We now have the great challenge of growth, with society and healthy productive forces being socially and involved in this process of fair growth. The debate on the 2019 budget is a challenge for a regression, but also for contemplation of the future, without deforming lenses, with our own eyes, with the eyes of the needs of the people and of the country. Anger and recovery cause the greatest amount of enthusiasm, ladies and gentlemen, of those who have led society to despair and country to destruction, to appear today, honorers and claim their return to rule, with an alibi and forgiveness, the people's command, which they hope, but in vain, to receive. The President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, speaking at his party conference, confirmed this finding. He does what he forgets, because he does not dare remind the people of the life and the state of the governments in which he also participated. He says, for example, that he will abolish the subordinate, but he does not tell us who established him and, above all, forgets to say that since 1 January 2019 we are abolishing him and our Government. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not extend to what has caused what has happened between 2010 and 2014, but also to what has taken place before the crisis. They are judged by history, by the people, but also by certain aspects of their policy, by justice itself. I invite you to remember only where the country was, when we took over governance: loss for the five years 2010-2014 of 25% of GDP and a fall in unemployment close to 30%. In other words, they amputated 1/4 of the body of the Greek economy, with terrible consequences for people's daily lives. We reversed this situation. The constant growth in employment, the growing positive mark on GDP and growth is evidenced by this. From 2015 onwards, until the exit from the Memorandum and the Committee in August 2018, the time that we had to operate within the framework established by the Memorandum of Understandings of the New Democracy and the PASOK, cuts were minimised to zero and at the same time a large-scale programme was implemented to support the most vulnerable people's strata. Let me mention, for example, the medical treatment - and Andreas Xanthos and Paul Paulakis have said it - for all uninsured and all the things that have been done in health, the Social Solidarity Income, the provision of - on an annual basis of social dividends in the poorest income layers. Over the years, Opposition has applied the doctrine of the destruction and division of our own people, fishing in the blurred waters of the depreciation of institutions and nationalism. We have remained firm in our main targets, despite some confusions that the need, not to say the forced implementation of a policy that we had neither chosen nor expressed. The memorandum was not our programme, honourable Members, our programme is the policy that we unfold after August 2018. Now, it seems who's rightful. Perhaps someone is wondering if under these circumstances there is room for a left-wing policy. I firmly believe, from the bottom of my heart, that there is. For us, the aim of development is accompanied by the last 'fair', fair growth. That is to say, it must have a human focus and not just a reproduction of capital and its profitability. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis said in his conference that wealth is produced by the private sector alone. Riches are produced by the worker, the hired man, Mr. Mitsotakis. You deserve, Mr Mitsotakis, the man, the worker, who is the country's productive power. You consider the private sector, because you want to shrink the public sector, so that the private can act uncontrollablely, without rules and controls. Full theatricalization of neoliberalism in all its majesty! This has its consequences, too, on national issues. Fair growth coexists, but it is fuelled and co-exists with democracy, individual and social rights and freedoms. We are on the opposite side of neoliberalism, which is subjugating man to the economy, and the economy itself must be subject to man and his needs. At this point I would like to refer to a number of aspects of the budget of the Ministry of National Defence, but also more generally to our policy in this area. The Ministry of National Defence, the Armed Forces were invited during the Memorandum to manage a rapid budget reduction to almost 50% compared to the previous crisis. Our government has been facing, with a full sense of responsibility, the need to maintain and strengthen the country's defence capacity. The Armed Forces were forced to operate in an extremely restrictive environment. This has led to the full utilization of available resources and resources and to the further enhancement of their potential. Our main priority is to maintain and increase the country's deterrent power, with targeted moves in terms of armaments programmes. Emphasis was placed on strengthening the operational availability of existing weapons systems, while targeting upgrading moves of the available means. There has been full use of the human resources and new opportunities provided by the technological development. The results are more than satisfactory. At the same time, the needs of the staff, which is a live power multiplier of the country's defence system and our comparative advantage over any threat, were maintained on the front line. Furthermore, the Armed Forces have strengthened their social work both in addressing the needs that have arisen in the warp of the economic crisis and in addressing the refugee and migration flows in our country. The contribution of the Armed Forces to the management of the refugee is crucial. Ladies and gentlemen, when one is called upon to deal with national defence issues before setting any objective and one priority, one must also study the international environment. We are all aware of the instability that surrounds us, but also of the major competitions that occur in the Eastern Mediterranean with a focus on the use of energy resources. The deterrent role of the Armed Forces is not only a guarantee of our sovereign rights, but is also a factor of stability and peace for the wider region. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] At this point I should like to make a reference to the role of the Armed Forces during the crisis. With their commitment to their mission, which they have accomplished with the greatest professionalism, with their high minds, high preparedness, they have made a decisive contribution to getting our country out intact and with a high head out of this difficult situation. No one dared to think - given the vexed position of our economy and our society - of attempting to blackmail situations, exploit our economic weakness and gain benefits. This reality gives content and substance to the concept of patriotism. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Home is a set of values and concepts that relate to the history and life of the people who make it up. Patriotism is also the economic development of our country with society upright. I will give two figures, Mr President, if I may. The 2019 budget of the Ministry of National Defence provides expenditure of 3 billion 318 million compared with 3 billion 140 million in 2018. It is necessary, capable of defending the country in the current budgetary conditions. From the amount of the annual expenditure of the Ministry's budget, 2/3 goes to staff benefits, i.e. 2 billion 260 million compared with 2 billion 120 million in 2018, an increase of 138 million. As regards the remaining expenditure, these amount to 1 billion 31 million compared with 991 million euro in 2018. Here are the operating costs and costs for equipment. To conclude, I would like to point out that our efforts to strengthen and strengthen cross-classification, care for staff, availability, maintenance, upgrading and modernising the instruments of the Armed Forces. In 2018, very important steps were taken in this direction. We assure the Greek people that expenditure on national defence, which is its sweat, is a place. The area of the Ministry of National Defence is no longer the field for the great "partis" which has been systematically carried out in previous periods. "Sampania, caviar and Velouhiot Mars", Mr. Samaras. If you think, ladies and gentlemen, by adopting marginal forms, extreme right-wing websites, you can rinse out SIEMENS, CEDEFOP, arms-sharing, the financing of your party, mistaken mercilessly. It will not prevail - and this will be done by the Greek people - the regret against memory. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote in favour of the budget of the Ministry of National Defence for 2019, not least as a reward for the effort made in this area by the entire staff member, who supported all the great effort that Greek society has made itself. Support Greek society and honor the Armed Forces! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u419	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Kotzias has the floor on behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. Immediately after that is Mr. Pssakakis, Mr. Akrititis, Mr. Kyriazidis, Mrs. Skoufa, Mr. Panagiotopoulos and we continue. We'll go by 12 o'clock and as much as it goes, maybe a little longer. Come on, Mr. Colleague, you have seven minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u420	Mr President, you must say to what speaker we are going to go, what name, because some people want to hear us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u421	We're going to go up to Mr. Bukowo, who, as he's told us, wants to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u422	Say the other names, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u423	I said five, six names. You want me to say everything?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u424	Everything. That's the way it has to be. The 'p.m.' is not going here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u425	I didn't say "e.g.", Mr. Bourrai. Come on, I've already said six, seven names that follow in a row, after I've seen the colleagues who are here. We'll move on, and we'll see then. You will also speak, Mr. Bourra. May I mention your name so people know you're going to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u426	Not just mine. All of them, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u427	Mr. Bourra, your colleague has come to Stepma. I'm sorry, Mr. Kotzia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u428	It's not a matter. It makes sense. I would like to condemn the attack and say that every attack on information is also an attack on democracy. I would like to raise two different points from what we have been discussing today and at the end of the day - because I did not ask for the floor - on the various insults I have heard against the Prespecies Agreement and my signature. The first question is that in a Parliamentary Republic there cannot be any public life sector financed by the public budget and not subject to Parliament's control. If it is not subject to Parliament's control, some make parallel mechanisms for democracy. We have the clear example of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: two years ago I brought, on my own legislative initiative, a law which controls the secrets - the so-called secrets - expenditure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This law provided for a special service by the officials, headed by the secretary-general and two senior ambassadors, to decide on the proposal to Parliament concerning the allocation of classified funds. Secondly, we predicted that the Bureau of Parliament should check and, if it wishes, give its assent to these expenditure and, thirdly, that these expenditures should only come to the fore with the proof of Parliament's agreement and the service itself and not with the Minister. This principle which has been promoted for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must be applied by the House and the Government - which I have asked many of them within the government - to apply it for all the ministries. There is no Ministry that has more serious issues - secret costs - from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also accepts and continues to be subject to parliamentary scrutiny. And I'm talking about ministries like the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Macedonia, perhaps other ministries, as well as the NSA. There is a specific code for these expenditure in the budget. And I say it now, that the government must commit itself to spreading and implementing what it applies to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other confidential expenditure. Otherwise, I owe myself and my history not to vote for the secret expenses of the other ministries, if this commitment is not made, beyond the Ministry of Foreign Affairs which has legal and legislative control. I would also like to say that there is one issue when we talk about secret funds, about the control of the NSA. Now that I have greater flexibility in time, I have searched all the laws and all the legislative works throughout the European Union. Whether they were left-wing - rare - governments, either socialist, socialist, or Christian-democratic - that is, not very left-wing - the democratic principle that Parliament is the highest institution of democracy applies in all these countries. So what? That the National Intelligence Office of each State is subject - with the secrecy required - to an inspection of the Committee of the Parliament. Secondly, that its Governor is also subject to parliamentary control. Thirdly, that with great secrecy - if necessary and decided by the House - there are committees of inquiry. Fourthly, it has been established in all countries - and recently, since 2014, in Germany - an expert, let's say it, Citizens' Counselor for any violations of secret services in the way and in the circulation of information. And lastly: this principle must be extended to every institution, whether it is called state security or an army, which has a kind of secret service. Thirdly, I would like to say that I support the budget and I will vote for it in addition to this objection. It has a development plan, it has social justice and a mechanism for promoting the economy. These three are the criteria on which everyone, by hand in the heart, must support this budget. I would like to make a proposal, however: the budget debate in this House constantly leads us to talk about figures, about comparisons of numbers with the past. I have no objections. They're necessary, and I'm using them. But this House - and I hope that this will be the case - will set up a special committee to discuss the 21st century and the future of the country and to compete with the parties and the MPs on what exactly a plan and what a vision we have for the future. I would like to say to you this: the budget must, in my opinion, in the future - it is not possible today - be the wheel and the guide for how Greece will be able to implement a vision. We live at a time called "The era of the 4th Industrial Revolution". The Anglo-Saxons call it "The Second Day of Machinery" and I inform you that the Japanese and Koreans call it "The Fifth Development Society". At this time we must take our country democratically. And we must always have the budgetary figures - research, education, etc. - give that impetus. That is why I think it would be good to have - and I propose this to the Bureau of Parliament and to the parties - this measure. Last point on what has been said. I don't want to talk about the press. We have another conversation. I shall refer to what I have heard while I was here. I listen with great interest that some people say, 'we're going to do better', and I wonder: Forty years why didn't they? Has anyone banned them? They are like husbands - women or men - who after they have destroyed their marriage, they say, "We are making another start, why am I going to do better?" But, gentlemen, forty years you've been tested and you haven't made a better deal. And should I say something else? In 1977 the New Democracy Government negotiated the issue of language in the UN and lost it on record. Why trust them that they'll negotiate better? And should I say something else? Let's entrust them to negotiate better. But, in 1992-1994, when we discussed the 'Macedonian language' and the abbreviations and abbreviations of this country, our northern neighbour, what did the two parties of the time do? Because it fell both in the Mitsotakis period and in the Papandreou period. What did they do? They didn't go to the negotiation three years. So they have all the guarantees that they would make a much better deal! And what else did they say? What was the second? Mr Varvitsiotis said so. He said there was a transaction here. I mean, I'm sorry, I'll take New Democracy's arguments and adopt them. 'Have the pension'. "You didn't do well, Comrade Minister." 'Bagalo the Prespes'. I didn't do well. Deal. Is there a deal between two bad things? You get something in a transaction. Nothing admits it's good. But how did the transaction happen? Plus, why are they so fearful? Why can't they imagine a foreign policy that fights for the country's fairs, without a complex and without retreat to anyone? What lessons do they have from their own experience? And the spokesman of the New Democracy continues to say: "You lost everything. Who counts you? Even Rama goes out and speaks in the way he speaks." Firstly, we must be very careful about our neighbours, because we are a stronger state, we must impose our own foreign policy on them. Some people think that we are making politics if we go behind the Turks and the Albanians and we swear. Oh, no! We adopted the field they like. We, because we are a stronger country, must have a field that we impose on the way of peace and development in a hegemonic way here in Greece. Mr Varvitsiotis left, but I would like to say this: I recommend two things to him: firstly, to read what the United States of America says about the role of Greece today in foreign policy, but also what the leadership of the People's Republic of China says about the role of foreign policy and the importance of Greece, also in the region. We are talking, in other words, about the outgoing and even superpower and the coming superpower, which express the greatest appreciation from all European countries and countries in the region in Greece. And they call us isolated. I mean, we're getting jammed. That's what he wants to tell us. I also make a recommendation to him: let him read the book of Father Varvitsiotis, what revealingly says about the Macedonian and how he describes how New Democracy was losing the negotiations around the Macedonian.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u429	Mr. Kotzia, you need to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u430	I'm done. Father Varvichiotis' soul is crumbled. Let the son read him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u431	Thank you, Mr. Kotzia. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u432	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, you will remain in the history of negotiating a national issue with closed doors. You were not in the mood to hear the Civic Opposition, you were not in the mood to listen to the opposition parties. You have decided alone with the Prime Minister of the country and you have national responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, today I am afraid of the sound reinstatement of terrorism. I am scared, because it hit information, information and pluralism. I'm scared because the beast has now begun to reconstruct, reconstructed and constantly trained, to show its teeth. I'm scared because you don't understand the extent of danger. The brutal violence will continue, in view of the many and multiple elections, to further disrupt the political climate. We are the only country in the European Union and in the West that we belong, which still has internal terrorism. Anarchists and extremists will continue to train every Friday and Saturday in the center of the capital, using new faces, new tactics, new designs, new flammable materials. Why is that? They will continue to use universities as fortresses and warriors those who practice violence and crime. These situations will give rise to further tougher 'new terrorism'. It is therefore necessary to ensure, ladies and gentlemen of the Complex, a national anti-terrorist policy plan as part of your position and as part of the mission given to you by the vote of the Greek people. You will bring the responsibility unreservedly and historically will be charged to you because you did not fortify the country as you should have. Today, speeches of comfort and support are heard that often touch the limits of phantomism. Tomorrow, they'll be forgotten. But responsibility will be a burden on you, Minister, historically. The government is constantly talking about growth, as in this year's budget. But how can growth come when we have such cases of blind violence? Let's just go to the point where the budget is. With his testimony, the period of virtual reality in which the present government has been living and with it for four years. Your last budget is undevelopmental and pro-electional, using, Minister, gifts with gold powder. You say that the country has come out of the memorials, while we are still implementing austerity policies. Instead of apologizing, you're moving our hand because you've reduced some of the taxes you've voted on on several occasions. You triumph as a genuine government of allowances, while the country cannot straighten out on the markets. In Varna's recent quadrumer, the Prime Minister spoke of the new vertical highway, as well as the modernisation of the vertical railway line in the Prefecture of Evros. How will this be achieved by a government that is proven to have no transport policy and does not believe that Evros can be a model for a transport hub? The Minister for Rural Development created expectations and hopes and forgot to do away with the plaque for the cotton growers who expect it. Will it compensate farmers who have suffered damage to cereals, tobacco, sunflower, fresh and frozen products, due to adverse weather conditions and diseases? What support measures for fishermen will you take when our neighbours unnecessarily violate our fishing grounds? How do you dream of development in Thrace with the sugar factory in Orestiad? Are you going to compensate the growers for the unfinished sugar beet for the last two years? Really, how are you going to move Thrace to university crossroads, to crossroads? With the Minister of Education, who, through profane laws, strengthens universities, centralities, from Democritus and from the other universities in the region? With the one who gives as a dowry of the TEI Kavala, Drama and Twin wall to the International University of Thessaloniki and forget about the Democritus University of Thrace? The one who took the Master's Master's Master's degree from Alexandroupolis and carried it to the equivalent of Thessaloniki? The one who founded the University of West Attica at the expense of the regional university and especially the one in Thrace? With the man who founds the inappropriate fourth law in Patras at the expense of this Komotini? With the fourteen children of Samothraki in which he was deprived of the favourable import arrangements for TEIs and TEIs? I'm coming to the Armed Forces, too. The Deputy Minister of National Defence left. At a new time when the provocativeness of neighbouring Turkey is growing, are you reducing spending on national defence? You are reducing the payroll of the staff of the three branches. You also reduce costs for their equipment programs. Drop the necessary for the operation of the army, as it is made up of the regular Army, the reserve and the National Guard. You have not realised that Armed Forces and Security Body, together with justice, are the pillars of the Greek state and it is necessary to function properly when risks are present, as at this time. In conclusion, this budget shows that both Greece, as well as Evros and Thrace in particular, can expect nothing from you but contempt. The New Democracy, with its program, proves that it can lead the Greek economy to the illusion. It can restore normality, responsibility, realism, security and seriousness to Greek society. Ladies and gentlemen, we deserve better, because we can do better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u433	Thank you, Mr. Prussakis. Mr. Excellency has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, because based on calculations, it is up to 00.30' to the best of cases, if you can keep the time to avoid getting away. Here, Mr. Excellency, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u434	Ladies and gentlemen, while the debate on the budget in question includes economic, quantitative and budgetary performance, this budget is at this time fatally altered politically and it is clearer than ever that two worlds are conflicting. One world is that of rights: the right to health, decent work, welfare, the world of equality, progress and the future. The other is the world of neoliberalism, working gallery, elite, intertwined, furnished excellence. I want to stand on one of the badest things that have been heard in here. Not that we were told traitors. That's another conversation. I feel, of course, united in front of so many ultra-patriots, I, the stateless, in New Democracy, but also my other colleagues of the SYRIZA and ANEL Parliamentary Group! I am referring, therefore, to the dividend that the Anti-Population has achieved as a precursor and election term, even though this was also given in 2016 and 2017. Shame on you! Ask the people who took it and they'll answer you. Mr. Georgiadis, Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Voridis, why don't you go out of the hospitals and tell the patients that it's impulse to their universal health coverage that the TOMYs that are created everywhere are predatory? Mr. Mitsotakis, I challenge you to go to the fan with the baby in the cart, tell her that the increase in the allowance from the first child, the nursery station and his lunch at school is an election trick. Mr Brutsi, stand outside the OAED and talk to the troops of the unemployed you have created and go to the factories to explain that we who restore collective agreements do so for voting reasons. Also, go find the contractors you will fire, as you say, when you become government, as well as the excesses, according to you, teachers. As for pensioners, I would ask you to accept my warmest condolences that have not been cut off from pensions, since you had it in your programme and you are obliged to take it out of it. The money that'll get three and a half million citizens belongs to them. It's their money. It's not a little government present. You have reached them - willingly or inadvertently - and we are returning them back, mercifully and as much as we can every time. The EUR 700,000,000 of the dividend is the result of hard work and determination of this government and we are gradually returning it to the Greek citizen, in a safe, sustainable and social law. Don't you know where they came from? Since the performance of the economy, and why we have put an end to the fragmentation of public money and the outdated KICPN-type parties, equipment, medicine, etc. If you consider this to be an extreme predatory, then you are even more clear about what policy you want to implement: the neoliberal policy of extreme austerity. I will paraphrase you: Why are you talking, sir? You have dissolved the insurance system and you are coming to tell us now about the need for private insurance. You've broken up education and come and advertise us the necessity of private universities. You have dissolved every concept of a social state, you have cut wages and pensions, you have lost employment rights, while unemployment has "shocked red". And don't tell us you couldn't help it. You could have! We, even under the Memorandum regime, are a lot of what we have achieved and everything is reflected in the actual sizes of the Greek economy. We have reduced unemployment by seven percentage points. We pulled the country out of obscurity and returned to growth. It is indicative that more than a thousand five hundred businesses were opened last year and that they were reduced much less. We restored the welfare state by introducing the Social Solidarity Income, strengthening primary health, extending access to nurseries. We are increasing the funds through the budget for our pro-active policy. Ladies and gentlemen, after eight Memorandum Budgets, thanks to the financial performance of the last few years and above all thanks to the sacrifices of Greek citizens, we are going to reduce the insurance contributions of free professionals, self-employed and farmers, the reduction of the EMI, the increase of the minimum and underprivileged wages, the grant of insurance contributions for young people up to twenty-five years, the strengthening of the "Help at home" programme, the grant of the rent, the non-reduction of pensions. At the same time, we continue our efforts to create a productive model based on the knowledge economy, while at the same time blocking Brain Drain. That is why we have more than doubled the research budget, we are establishing incentives for innovative entrepreneurship, we are creating new, quality jobs for skilled scientists. Let me remind you that the Ministry of Education's budget has been constantly increasing since 2015. Of the EUR 4,750,000 that we received from him, it has reached EUR 5,500,000 in the years ahead. In 2018 we have made more than sixteen thousand recruitments in Special Education. A further four and a half thousand new permanent recruitments of teachers are planned in 2019, thus ensuring the continued support for disabled and special educational needs. And that kind of sounds to you. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately for you, the opposition parties, the country has changed its direction. Structures are improving, the public sector is transforming. Procedures shall be made transparent. The redefinition of the social state, the restoration of industrial relations and rights and the fight against corruption are at the heart of our policy. Your pitiful predictions are disproved every day. Scandalology finds you a wall. Your story breaks down and your favourite sporting false news exposes you, because now reality is relentless. Of course, we do not expect you to vote on the budget, nor do you support our policy, however much as we see your grief to say 'yes' to what we legislate. But here, ladies and gentlemen, there is something very dangerous about which you must respond. What's going on with the Top Right? Is the obsession to return to the authority that has blinded you and do you not hesitate to confuse with the darkest seat of this House, or is it just time to reveal your long-standing relevance to the Right Across? Remind what was called PASOK - what irony, is it? - 'The people do not forget what it means right', let alone the far right! We therefore recommend that the Qualified Opposition, which recently likes to change its mark, order its authors something that suits its upcoming election defeat, because it is certain that our struggle for more democracy, transparency, equality, social solidarity, protection of social and labour rights will win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u435	Thank you, Mr. Excellency. Mr Mariazis, you have the floor, and then Mrs Skoufa immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u436	Thank you, Mr President. I had a few notes, but unfortunately, in the course of the debate two worlds emerge again, two systems: one reality and the other of theory and delusion - deception. Unfortunately, this is the harsh reality, which I did not want to believe until 2016, in the budget at the time, where we discussed with colleagues at the Chamber of Deputies, seeing the budget, in the sense of cuts, over-taxation, measures, with our own logic, we said that February or March are going for elections. I am called by a SYRIZA colleague, who we knew from the past, from social struggles that we had given together, and he says: 'Continue and make the same mistakes'. I say to him: 'What mistakes, my dear fellow Member?'. "You have reached some conclusions with your thinking. Our thinking is quite different. All of us here don't believe them. But can we only break with all this? Oh, no. We're going to rock them one - and that's why we're going to allege with the devil. Our Alexis said so: "The House is our bulwark, our fortress. We are not leaving here'. I say, ladies and gentlemen, that you must prepare for all this. I have often come to a dilemma too, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. I did not vote three times on the prerequisites and the third time I was called to delete them. The third time we had twenty-three prerequisites. We did not vote for the two of the twenty-one on Thursday's Eurogroup, which met us back by humiliating us by our lenders, who today consider you the best children, the most persuasive bodies so that we can return on Monday. I would stress that it was not financial. This, unfortunately, is the harsh reality and under these conditions you were coming out of here, when we were in plenary, grouped in the Constitution with the Angry, headed by Alexis, adoring and turning triumphantly, since you met in the Golden Dawn Constitution. And they belonged to the Indignant, which five years have passed now, and the trial has not yet taken place. And last week, you did not vote for the lifting of immunity. Let's see what the relevance is, as in 2015 the elections how you sought them, how you achieved with the help of the Golden Dawn. So who's the far right? Those who work together and co-govern, whom you have called in the previous years, but you are co-governing. Unfortunately, that is, if you want, the price, which you pay, because the power of all this is managed in this way only to remain in power. You were coming into Parliament, and what were you vomiting towards us? "Sold, mercanisers, german germans, we are preparing you for the fur shops, donors, etc." You remember them. Your colleagues have called them. If you want, see them. And we were silent, we were leaning on the head because we knew the difficulties, we knew what we were facing when we were back to our place, where you were leading the lead in any protest. Today, we are helping. In too many bills we voted in favour. You never voted for a bill and you come and tell us what today? When you raided society for the abolition of the memorandum with a law, with an article on minimum wage at 761, for seismicity, for "no house in the hands of a banker", for the abolition of the HPIA, at the same time creating movements of "I don't pay", inviting people not to pay tolls, VAT and everything else that came to you in your pit. Finally, in 2015 with the advocacy, as I said before, of the Golden Dawn, you assumed authority. In the first five months, ruling with extreme right-wings as you said and accepted, you led us to an emergency situation. We have helped not to be outside Europe again. It was a painful situation for the country. Despite your confession to the illusion that you were being professed and possessed, your objective, your ideological objective, the creation of a privatist situation, such a system, i.e. the responsible job unit to produce 100 euros, for example, and take 80 euros, creating a society that is commanded by hand for a pool, for a coupon, for a social grocery store, for a doctorate and pharmacy, for a four-month period, for an eight-month period, whispering him that "become permanent", assuming at the same time the public wealth of the country for nine nine years. As far as TRAINOSE is concerned, do you remember the agreement that we made with the ITF for 350 million for fifteen years and how much did you give it for ninety-nine years? Forty-five million, colleagues and colleagues, instead of a table of power. Unfortunately, you also led our youth to leave the country and killed every family in order to ensure its prospects. For what parallel programs, for what countermeasures, what equivalent are you talking about? You're making fun of society. He didn't see them anywhere. We are not talking about issues such as immigration, open borders. You were in the fences there protesting, the Amydaleza to blow it up, and now dozens of them enter from Evros. They burn in cars on the road network of Kavala. Last week there were twelve dead. You're the morals for everything. What security are you talking about? Do you remember what you were saying? Create a militia, disarmament of police officers, dismantling MATs, and now you're partying with the auras. This, unfortunately, is the harsh reality. Which police are you making sure? What 50% are you talking about? We gave it, we incorporated it into their wages, and now you come 40% of what you have given, once. I will also present the relevant document.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u437	Mr. Comrade, if you'd like, you'd better finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u438	What did the cop get? He received 2,970 booking 2,300. Reservations are 40%. Keep it to remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u439	Finish it, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u440	What's that about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u441	It is about what the Council of State imposed on you twice and forced you in six months to pay all these retrospectives, otherwise they would proceed to public confiscations themselves. You have had to move forward and cut them to 40%. That's what you do, and that's what you do once, to know what happens to us, I mean to the workers in the Security Corps, to the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u442	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u443	I come from eastern Macedonia. I would like to say to Mr Kotzia that forty-two thousand were taken captives to Kitsevo, Skopje. Twelve thousand were lost in coercive works. The rest of them came back and half the disabled. And, unfortunately, I had ancestors in this very painful attitude. They could then, with a simple signature, accept that they were Slavs and would turn back untouched.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u444	Mr. Comrade, we've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u445	They preferred to die so they wouldn't be considered traitors. And you come here today with a signature, absent from everyone, to sign everything. This is the case for our Macedonia, I would like to inform you, which you do not want to see, that you understand. Thank you, Mr President. Of course, I come from a county, Drama...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u446	Mr. Comrade, finish it up. We'll never finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u447	It's just that the SYRIZA government put him in quarantine. When I say quarantine, I mean remote from what this place sees.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u448	Mr. Cryazides, please. We've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u449	What connection are you talking about, Mr. President, with the Egnatia Street? We'd have built the thirteen miles by the end of the year. Thank you, Mr President. Why don't we talk about the NGO hosting center?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u450	We can say anything and talk by two in the morning. But that can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u451	Last week they were sentenced for five months in prison - NGO Drama - to the hospitality centre, because they were bazaaring it there. Unfortunately, this is what I had to say. I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u452	Mr. Cryazides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u453	I will not say about heating in Neurokopi - imagine - and for the rural world, as you have recently given tobacco producers 60% of acres and the next side of Mr Kavaliotis's field, which was next door - one road divides them - 100 euros the acre. You understand how you're working.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u454	Mr. Lady, would you like me to turn off the microphone?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u455	Unfortunately, this is the harsh reality. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u456	Do we have to make so many remarks? I said it and immediately before you go up to the Step to keep the time. We'll be there at 12:30.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u457	Tell us the last speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u458	I'll read all the names and if you don't keep them, someone won't talk today. Mrs. Skoufa is immediately afterwards, Mr. Panagiotopoulos, Mr. Papaphippou, Mr. Sifakis, Mr. Bourras, Mrs. Stavrou, Mr. Boukokoros and Mrs. Kaphantaris. We're talking about eight speakers. It's just coming out for an hour. If we put the seven-minute, it's an hour. But no one speaks for seven minutes. If we take it ten minutes, it'll be eighty minutes. We have to go by one night. We can't. And there's Mr. Papachristopoulos, who doesn't know if he's gonna talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u459	They've been talking for over ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u460	Start with the horn, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u461	The fact that time has not been observed by everyone does not have to go on with it. Mrs. Scouffa, I'm sorry, you've already gone to Stepma, but we need to clear up some things. You have seven minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u462	Thank you. We all expected to hear it in this Chamber. Of course, we did not expect to hear the comment from the previous speaker, Member of the New Democracy, that the SYRIZA Government is also to blame for the delay in the trial of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u463	It's been five years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u464	Decide, ladies and gentlemen! Should governments intervene in the work of the courts or not? In our opinion, this is why we also allow the courts to do their work freely in this area too, unreservedly and independently.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u465	You're interfering with others!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u466	Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u467	I think that something has been said - because I have listened very carefully to the Members of the Officerial Opposition - by a Member, unfortunately, I do not remember his name, confuses exactly the core of your ideological philosophy and direction. What's that? In particular, he said: "We as a party, the New Democracy, believe in the free economic activity of the individual and generally the free economic production, the free atom..." etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u468	Excellent!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u469	First time you hear it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u470	I have a question: If that is what you believe in, in common with the best and most liberal version, in the laissez-faire laissez passer, that is, without any state social intervention in the otherwise free activity of the person you will find, gentlemen of the New Democracy, all the money needed to support, strengthen and rebuild the social state?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u471	That's why you were able to study abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u472	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u473	Mr. Cryazides, didn't you get nine minutes to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u474	And there is also a question, which has not been answered for four days, the question raised to you by the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotos. He asked you about a specific price for all those who wish you to announce to the Greek people. How much do you cost, gentlemen, the social measures you otherwise announced? Where are you going to get the money? Where are you going to get them? We haven't got a reply yet, and we're never gonna get it. Do you know why? Because you don't believe in the social state. Because if you believed, you have had the opportunity to prove it for forty years in the country's governance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u475	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u476	In the alternating power with PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u477	Yes, yes, you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u478	The Greek people were beaten when they were looking for garbage and when on your day they were practicing social medicine and pharmacopoeia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u479	Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u480	Where are the social medicine and pharmacies? Where are the social grocery stores?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u481	There goes gauze and cotton.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u482	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Bourra!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u483	Do we now see the humiliation of the Greek people, which you had condemned to look for in the trash? Do we see these gruesome images for a country of western civilization? Shame on you gentlemen! That's all! Shame on you! I would like to point out, in contrast to what I said earlier, that this budget is the first non-committee budget. It is also a budget of reasoned expansion, which, as demonstrated by figures, is free of access to everyone and every citizen in this country, a rational extension, which involves a reduction in taxes and insurance contributions on the one hand and an increase in social expenditure on the other. I would like to remind you of a few moments, some of the points in this country's economic history, to remind the Greek people of what weight you had lost the Greek economy, the economy of the country before the government of SYRIZA, Occogon and ANEL came with the 2015 elections at the helm of governance. I would therefore like to remind you of the surpluses that you committed to all previous governments by 2015. You made the commitment to the partners and institutions that by 2031 the surpluses would be at 4%, while for the four years 2015-2018 the total surplus amounted to 16.2% of GDP. I would like to remind you at the same time that, as other speakers have said, unemployment has risen sharply from 9% to 28%. And another important element, which you are hiding, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, is that on your day the public debt, the foreign debt of the country, was probably raised from 125% to 180% of GDP. It is also the four years 2010 to 2014 that the country lost 27% of its GDP. To the ordinary citizen, do you know what that means? If GDP, if wealth is a column, the half of this column is degraded, disappeared, evaporated within four years. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, you are the one who makes the announcement that you will save the country. Will you save her how? Dismissing hundreds of thousands of teachers from the public system? By dismissing, as your representative, Mr. Adonis Georgiadis, has done, thousands of doctors from the public health system? Or will you save the country by once again charging it with public deficits? Because 2010 we had a deficit of EUR 24 billion, 2011 was EUR 19 billion, 2012 was EUR 19.4 billion, 2013 was EUR 22 million and 2014 was EUR 6.5 billion. That's how the government budget deficit was. And because that was the deficit, that's why you plunged the country into the memorials, and that's why you borrowed it on unfaithful terms, so you forced an entire people to have the balance of the Memorandums. Unlike you, ladies and gentlemen, this government, as much as you do not like it, is the government that is slandered, with a plan, with a social vision, with fair growth for the whole population and not for the whole population, fighting for the reconstruction of the social state, for the support of households' incomes, for the support of small and medium-sized enterprises, with proof and with projects in the budget and numbers. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, in fair and sustainable development. You believe in the feedback of the'mothers' pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u484	Thank you, Mrs. Scouffa. An announcement to this House: The Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, Ministers of Interior, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Deputy Ministers for Environment and Energy...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u485	Mr. President! Wait a minute! We are MPs, we must respect the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u486	And you must respect me when I make an announcement!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u487	Mr President, you do not follow the rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u488	Mr. Vetta!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u489	You're incapable of complying with the rule!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u490	Wait till I'm interrupted when I've started.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u491	It's late. I insist that we respect all the speakers. Quietly listen to all the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u492	Mr. Vetta!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u493	Serve your role, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u494	If I don't start, you can't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u495	Mr. Panayotopoulos, I'm sorry. Mr Vetta, first of all you have interrupted me at the time I made an announcement. How do I preside over?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u496	I expect to see how you keep the rule. I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u497	What are you waiting for?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u498	Keep the rule!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u499	I've made so many remarks! What do you want me to do? What are you doing right now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u500	Easy, Mr President, to conduct the process smoothly. Follow the rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u501	I expect that from all of you. And you interrupted me when I made an announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u502	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u503	Respect for the Bureau!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u504	Instead of respecting the president, you're asking me to respect you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u505	You will find the truth of the word in a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u506	The Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, the Minister of Home Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, the Deputy Ministers of Environment and Energy and Economic Affairs and the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, submitted on 17-12-2018, a draft law: ‘Strengthen 11-12-2018 Amendment Agreement on Provisions of the Project from 31 May 2007, Construction, Financing, Maintenance and Operation, Conservation and Operation of the Automotive of Central Greece (E65)’, ratified by Law 3597/2007 (A'168, as amended: (a) by the 28-11-2013 Amendment Agreement on the Concession of Provisions of the Concession Agreement of Concession Agreements (Agreements of Contributions of Contributionsortiums)’, ratified by the second sentence of Law 4219/2013 of the Amendment to the Agreement on the Application of Financial Provisions of Contributions of Contributions of Contributions of Contributions of Migrations of Contributions of Contributions. This draft law has been characterised by the government as urgent. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u507	Thank you, Mr President. I would first like to express from this step my sympathy to SKAI, 'Kathimerini', 'Kathimerini', and to the workers in the channel and at the station, which has today also been the target of a terrorist attack. The worrying thing is that new terrorism is now being organised and beaten, while the feeling of security for the average citizen is shrinking over these days. I would like to express the wish that the public order and security should relocate to the country. I would probably say - I would bet - that this will probably happen with another government and I would also hope that this position will not be taken by government colleagues as a part of the right-wing New Democracy. I hear this very recently from this step in the debate on the budget: 'The New Democracy is now on the right'. But what has happened is that with the far right SYRIZA, with the Golden Dawn in order to coexist and cast the government of Antonis Samaras in December 2014 and with Mr. Kammenos - who is not considered central, moderate, towards the extreme right of the political spectrum, you join him - in order to coexist for four years, making it the longest government that managed a memorandum - so that we do not forget - in the country. I have to make a position on what I heard from the Minister of Justice, who was placed earlier than the Step. He spoke of a qualitative difference in the budget of the Ministry of Justice and analysed it. I would like to say that two are the conditions that ensure regularity in the functioning of justice in the country: The first is its institutional armour that ensures its constitutionally guaranteed independence and thus the rule of law is strengthened. I have not seen any proposal in this direction that could be put forward in the Revision Committee by the government majority. We - I have had the opportunity to say this at the previous General Assembly of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors - have proposals for the institutional immunity of justice to ensure its operational independence, beginning with the choice of the leadership of the country's Supreme Courts. From the government to the crumbs! The second treaty is the implementation of sections and reforms which ensure that it is more rapid and therefore more effective and more qualitative for the benefit of the citizen, who feels that justice is his last resort to the will or arbitrariness, if you like, of the powerful and even for the benefit of the Greek economy. A stronger and faster justice could be a lever for the development of the economy. The Minister told us that the funds of the Ministry of Justice in the 2019 budget amount to EUR 650 million compared with EUR 608 million for the years 2017 and 2018 and that this is a qualitative change. I see it as a quantitative change. We have a change in numbers, a larger number of funds, more money for the Justice Department. But what's that for? First of all, in the provision for the payment of retrospectives to judges and judges, in accordance with the relevant judgments. Therefore, once again the whole of the Ministry's budget is directed towards meeting the wage requirements of justice officials. Few, I'd say, there's money left for anything else. Mr Kalogerou analysed some figures: 5% extra for workers, 18% more for purchases of goods, 500 thousand for some overtime of judges, so many more for leave and night work. These funds, you know, do not upgrade the quality of the Greek justice, nor are they reform - let me say this - the supply of heating fuels or oil in prisons. The day before yesterday I went to the Athens Court building and they informed me that, apart from being in the winter without heating with coats and gloves, the repair work of the building after last week's bombing started only last week, after a year. Therefore, there are huge needs in terms of improving the logistical infrastructure of justice throughout the territory, this situation is on a marginal footing and there are also huge needs for staff, both to judges and to administrative staff. Could the Minister tell us something to launch the recruitment of the remaining successors of the 2014 Fourth Class competition. We have heard nothing about this or the extension of the electronic justice organisation to all levels of the system, which unduly delays. I have not heard any specific timetable, no specific coverage, no specific targeting. Stagnation, then. And that's not even the biggest problem of Greek justice today. I would say that the biggest problem is summarised in the infamous doctrine of Polakis: "Let's put some in prison to win the election." And he didn't say that to his colleagues in the government. He said so in public at a party event of the ruling party. Government interventions, namely, in independent justice under the Constitution, so that it can be used as a tool to satisfy the political purposes of the government and be affected, targeting political opponents by drunken persecution by a background Rasputin. Undermining the institutional guarantee of the independence of justice, undermining the rule of democracy law, I fear that it is the footprint of four years of governance SYRIZA - ANEL in justice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A brief comment on the rest of the budget. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, there are two possibilities: Or are you untreatedly optimistic or untreated mythologists. You're telling us everything's going well and it's going to be better. The tone and the style are given by the Prime Minister, who the day before the anti-concentration of the conference of the New Democracy in Thessaloniki, in front of a party audience and many policemen glorified respect for the different viewpoint and the right to dispute, while the police have removed a citizen who dared to protest - I imagine far-right and fascist at your own perspective - singing the "Macedonian xenophist". What do I mean by that and where do I want to end up? The national harmful management of the government in the national issue is consistent with its performance on all fronts. With anything you're swallowing, you're making it worse. You're going to solve problems and you're creating more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u508	And that's what you're finishing up with, Mr. Panayotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u509	Twenty seconds, Mr. President. The situation in the economy is not good. The yield of a ten-year bond shows that four months after the supposed net exit from the memorandum, we still have no clear exit on the markets. He was supposed to be the target of getting out of the memoirs. At the moment, the country has no access to any funding. There is the 26 billion-dollar pillow, but it is filled with the overtaxation that has broken the middle-class, because that was your decision. The result is the maturities to the tax office. From 60 billion owed by taxpayers in 2014, today has risen to 103 billion by September, 43 billion more debts in unpaid taxes in four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u510	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u511	The banking system is squeezing and the stock market is on low flights. There is the real portrayal of the situation of the Greek economy and you are increasingly targeting it. You support poverty by creating more poverty, because you have never understood or wanted to understand that countries are coming out of these problems as a factor of wealth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u512	Finish, Mr. Panayotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u513	From there, from the surplus of wealth, ladies and gentlemen, funded and insurance systems sustainable and sustainable social state. Unfortunately, these are not in a position to understand. We're not going well, something the Greeks know. Things could go better, which, of course, presupposes leaving power. This will also be the case in the forthcoming elections. Obviously I am voting against the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u514	Mr. Papaphippippi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u515	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to be succeeding in the step by the new Republic's friend and fellow Member, Mr Panagiotopoulos. I would like to say a few words to you in response to what you said about the Acceleration Partnership with SYRIZA, in the process of unsuccessful presidential election on your governance. Here I would say that there has been a symptom event. Because it happened that these two parties did not vote for the candidate president, it does not mean for any reason and you claim it wrong and repeat it that there was a partnership between the far right and the SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u516	What about the referendum event?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u517	Mr. Buquarre, please. Don't start the dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u518	Time is valuable. He's passing through, and we're all struggling. Let there be, at least, mutual respect between us. I would also like to say that the ANLLs are not a right-wing party. It is a Central Right Party and you are wrongly using this term for ANELs again. And two words about public order and security, which you often bring back to public speech. Security is the right of every citizen, but it should not be at the expense of personal freedom as defined and protected by the Constitution. And I'm coming to the budget. The 2019 budget is the fourth budget during our country's governance period by SYRIZA and ANEL. But at the same time it is the most important, since it is the first Memorandum of Understanding, with a strong memorandum that I shall present below. It marks the new period of history that our country has entered and is due to be better days for our economy and for the living standards of the majority of our compatriots. The above optimistic note is based on genuinely and unambiguously positive economic sizes and events, such as, firstly, the successful completion of the third Financial Adjustment Programme and the definitive and clear exit of our country since August of this year. Secondly, the significant reduction in public debt last June that makes this a dynamically viable one. Thirdly, the upgrading of our country's credit rating capacity by international rating agencies. Fourthly, the growth of the economy has been stable since 2017. In 2017 growth reached 1.5% - I note that it was positive for the first time in the period of crisis - and 2.1% in the current year that may be even greater. And for 2019, next year we count on it to be based on 2.5%, as all the economic indicators contributing to growth, such as, for example, the increase in private consumption, the increase in industrial production, the increase in exports of goods and services, the increase in employment, the increase in investment, the increase in public consumption. The pre-determined economic recovery in conjunction with the successful management of the economy, in the period 2015-2018, which - I am passing away - has resulted in the neutralisation of the risk for Grexit, the recapitalisation of the banking system, the reduction of economic uncertainty, the successful implementation of the budgets and the achievement of the budgetary targets, allows us not only the 2019 budget to include absolutely no fiscal adjustment measures, but on the contrary to include, for the first time, the start of the crisis, a rationalised budget extension by incorporating positive measures of EUR 910 million. Most of the above positive measures have already been legislated by their adoption both by the Civic Opposition and by the majority of the other parties. These measures remind me that they belonged to the category of positive countermeasures and would be taken if they were implemented from next year, namely 2019, the reduction of personal differences in main and secondary pensions. But as you all know, and I believe that the Greek people have learned that, we have recently legislated, in addition to the above positive measures, and the abolition of the pension cut. With the abolition of the pension cut and the adoption of the above measures, the change in the budget from this budget to the mixture of our budgetary policy, which has the following objectives, is expressed. Firstly, the strengthening of household income. Secondly, support for sustainable development and thirdly, addressing in a targeted way chronic social protection deficits. The existing legislative measures, which serve the above objectives, are summarised as follows: First, the reduction of HPAI by 10%, secondly, the reduction of the insurance contributions of free professionals, self-employed and farmers by 33%, thirdly, the gradual reduction of the income tax on legal and legal entities from 29% to 25% over a period of four years. Fourthly, the 50% subsidy in 2019 and 100% in 2020 of the youth insurance contributions up to 25 years of age. Fifthly, the abolition of the trade fee for cooperatives, cooperative farmers, COMES, etc. Sixth, the abolition of excise duty on wine... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please allow me to continue for two more minutes. Seventhly, the strengthening of the "Help at Home" programme through its integration into organic units of OTA and the recruitment of three thousand employees to it, eighthly strengthening of the school units of Special Education and Education with the recruitment of four thousand teachers and skilled staff in permanent posts. Ninth, the new housing subsidy programme for three hundred thousand households. Apart from these measures, however, the following positive interventions must also be taken into account, which will significantly improve the lives of a large proportion of our fellow citizens who are either private workers or who belong to vulnerable social groups. First, the restoration of normality since August 2018 of industrial relations and rights. It should be stressed here that since January 2019, on the one hand, the minimum wages will be increased and, on the other, the shameful person for our country will be abolished. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Secondly, the allocation for the third consecutive year of a social dividend of EUR 710 million, which has received and received about one and a half million of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u519	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u520	Also, the latter - and I am making special reference to this, because it concerns my birthplace Thassos - is the transport equivalent that will apply to Thassos, as to all islands from 1 to 2019 and will remove several of the adverse economic and social consequences of islands. Here we have to say that all these measures...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u521	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u522	Mr President, everyone has exceeded the set time...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u523	And you've exceeded him, so I'm telling you, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u524	I have spent time answering Mr. Panagiotopoulos. I will finish by saying this. We are acting self-evidently in favour of vulnerable social groups. This is not an electoral impulse, but we feel that, as left-wing and radicals, we should gradually restore the injustices that have been committed to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u525	Mr. Comrade, please, finish in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u526	Ladies and gentlemen, our fellow citizens have understood the positive memorial course, with their honorary honours the Prime Minister and President of our party Alexis Tsipras. For this reason, they say by majority that next year will be better, as this will be recorded in a recent Alco poll. So, unfortunately, for the Chief of Officerial Response, Mr Mitsotakis, and thankfully for the Greek people, his party's recent conference will be the last for him as the leader of his party, after his certain defeat in the forthcoming elections and will not be the last for the government of SYRIZA. Of course, it goes without saying that I am voting in favour of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u527	And after that dream you wake up!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u528	The self-evident thing should be to complete in a reasonable time. You cannot speak for eleven minutes. There are five more colleagues left. We can't sit down another hour. We've said we'll finish at 00:30, which was originally at 00:00. I reread the colleagues who will take the floor by the end of the sitting: it is Mr Sifakis, Mr Bourras, Mrs Stuboulis, Mr Boukoros and Mrs Kafantaris. Please, at least you left, complete within seven minutes. Here, Mr. Sifakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u529	Thank you, Mr President. The debate on the first memorial and memorable expansion budget, ladies and gentlemen, certainly allows us to make a very short regression, an account of how we have reached this point, how we have been able to break down the country's bankruptcy and the prolonged recession, from the frontal aggression to society, with full overthrows in few years, from 2010 to 2014, the income situation of workers, the level of their lives, but also social conquests of decades, the dissolution of labour, the appalling increase in the number of unemployed, how have we been able to return to normality and gradually turn the data back on the workers, the unemployed, the farmers, the productive Greece, for all those who have felt that land should leave under their feet in the Memorandum years. When the Left took over the management in 2015 of a bankrupt country, which could not go out on the markets, with banning interest rates at the end of 2014, fully devalued on the international stage, what it promised was to fight towards the overthrow of this situation, with the support of society, the strengthening of productive Greece, the redistribution in favour of the populace and the poor media. We were forced in August 2015, under the very unfavourable international relationship to proceed with a compromise to keep the country in Europe, to prevent the worst of our people. We chose to manage the new situation with the people's vote in September 2015, not to escape, as others did, and we sat down not for the chair, as some people are accusing us, but to have the working class, farmers, small and medium-sized support for the attack on the memoranda that we had to manage, without ever feeling that it was our own policy, because it was always out of our political profile and, if you like, of our proven worthy load. The memorials are in the DNA of other political forces, who still advertise them and want to continue them through the proclamation of their programs. And now, after August 21, 2018, we can feel justified, as the country stayed in the heart of Europe and the memorials ended, but society, despite its suffering and sacrifices, although injured, endured and returned. All these positive measures that we are voting on, such as the abolition by law of the reduction of pensions, the distribution for the third consecutive time of social dividends, the measures of approximately EUR 1 billion to relieve the people who have suffered over the years of the crisis, the increase in the minimum wage that comes in Genoa, the reintroduction of collective negotiations, but together with the increase in consumption, export, industrial activity, tourism, the general increase in the country's wealth of over 2%, which are really uncomplicated events, prove that the country has changed page and is now moving towards our own policy, which we wanted to implement since 2015, when we first started. The country returns to growth and expenditure for the social state is also increasing. The country therefore returns to growth with the maximisation of the absorption of the Community funds of the ESDP, but also of the Rural Development Programme, with the substantial increase in tens of times the funds for local government over the period 2012-2014, not only by increasing the CFP and changing the criteria that were given, which are not only the population criteria, but also the "PHILITIS I", "PHILITIMOS II", the payment of their due obligations, the payment of those owed by judicial decisions, the substantial strengthening of the programmes for water shortages and the treatment of natural disasters. We reintroduced local government on the map after the stormy decrease in resources, despite the increase in responsibilities that had gone to local government between 2012 and 2014. The country returns to growth at a new energy design with the aim of decisively strengthening the penetration of renewable energy sources in the energy mix along with maintaining, but to a lesser percentage of lignite, with the flagship law for energy communities that not only strengthen energy democracy, but also enables and reduces the cost of drinking water, irrigation water and energy poverty, but since municipalities, TEEs and LEEs can exploit this new legislation decisively, energy savings in private and public buildings and boost electricity mobility in transport. Furthermore, the country returns to growth with the decisive promotion of the Land register and forest maps, tools necessary to enable us to make spatial planning and development by facing desperately shortfalls of a hundred years of previous governments. It is re-emerging with the normalisation of payments to farmers, with 83% of the public expenditure of the ESDP in new notices and ongoing projects, with the possibility that all young farmers may enter the "New Farmers" programme, with the graceful arrangements for agricultural debts, the inclusion of all rural road projects in the ESDP and, if you want, by changing the criteria for recognition of producer organisations for the reorganisation of the rural world, so that they can actually collect, standardise, pack and get the added value of the products. Furthermore, the country comes back to development with the de minimis aid for milk farmers, for peaches - we must see, of course, the crushing peaches - of tobacco producers, if you like, the abolition of the excise duty on wine. The client state is weakening day after day, strengthening democracy and equal treatment of citizens and contributing, if you like, to the weaning of political representation by relations with the social body. We are also moving forward with a democratic constitutional review. The people see and judge and remember, ladies and gentlemen. He remembers who bankrupt the country, who impoverished him, who put him in the memorials, and who took him out, if you like, with a big fight and accepting ruthless war from great interests. And you can be sure that he will deliver Caesar Caesar's return to the upcoming national elections in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u530	Thank you, actually, for your time. Mr. Buras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u531	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would also like to express my support for SKAI and KATHMERINI, who have today accepted this male terrorist attack, an attack, in essence, against pluralism and democracy. I will begin my position first on issues that I am following in the area of the New Democracy economy and development, and I will say a few undeniable and auditing elements below. The evolution of the ESRB, because it is also heard by the Ministry, according to the data on the website of the Ministry of Economy and Development - and those who want to keep "ANELs.Gov.gr" - is updated daily with the data on the development of the operational programmes of the NSRF 2014-2020, it is recorded that today four years of governance of SYRIZA - ANEL, which coincide with the implementation of the NSRF of the current period 2014-2020, the situation is dehemistic. According to this website, the absorption of the NRP is 24.1%, but a page which does not already include - because the fellow Members from the Step - the ESDP Programme, the Rural Development and Fisheries Programme, as well as transnational cooperation programmes, have been mentioned. For anyone who wants to see me, I am tabling the elements of the integrated information system of the Ministry of Economy and Development dated 4-12, to see and colleagues from the province see that the absorption of an important piece, which is fishing, is 7%. You understand. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Bourras, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why is that? If we go to the portal with the official information of the European Commission that are monitoring the absorption of the NSRF structural funds as a whole, including those that do not include our Ministry's portal, we will see that the figures are even more disappointing. That is where we find that the absorption of the ESDP is only 19%, and if compared to the other countries, the absorption of Community funds ranks us in the seventeenth place to twenty-eight, marginally behind Bulgaria, etc. - to earn some time. In other words, there is no connection to the first absorption position for which the government is constantly taking on board. But misinformation in the public is no longer something that surprises us. On the contrary, it's expected. We also have to bear in mind that if there were no major ripe projects that started on our own government and continued in the current programming period, the 'Phasing' projects, as they are said, would be even lower. For example, the PAENEC programme - a major programme -, Entrepreneurship - Innovation, which is intended to stimulate small and medium-sized enterprises and the research and technology sectors, information, energy, tourism and culture - is located only 10% in absorption from last year's 8%, i.e. it took all year round two percentage points. In the recent meeting, in fact, the Europeans have sounded the alarm. Going to the data reported by the website of the Ministry of Economy and Development - Economy and Development! - the Ministry's page, listen to the disappointing figures: The resources for the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises are absorbed 16.8% and we fill in the fourth year. The resources for research, technology and innovation account for 5.5% of the resources for information and communication technologies only 20%. The most neural sectors of our economy, that is, they, are far behind. Is that how we can fill the gap in competitiveness? Of all the operational programmes of the ESRB from the nineteen and a half thousand enterprises - beneficiaries, just one hundred and fifty beneficiaries received one euro. Also, of the four multi-advertised funds, firstly the Business Participation Fund, secondly the TPIX II Entrepreneurship Fund, thirdly, the Infrastructure Fund and, fourthly, the 'Security at Domestic', with a budget of EUR 1 billion, only the latter operates, the 'Security at Domestic', the other at all, and that is very - very late. We now go to private investment and to N.4399/16. What didn't we hear then? It started with a long delay. From the posted figures in "GENERAL" we see that four years later only three entrants with this law have managed to collect something as an advance. Is that how the much-conscious development comes? In fact, with a recent publication in the 'CAPITAL.GR' - and since I mention it, I put it for the Minutes and for those who are interested in seeing the sources - investment projects from industry, tourism, agri-food, plastics and the metal industry are on ice. In other words, this is a substantial deterioration and a hindrance to what is called investment. Only by extensions - there are lasting extensions for them - are no investments being implemented. This is how the well-favorable development will come, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Bourras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We all know that the country needs a great deal of investment and even large investments of a strategic nature. How many big investments have been made over the last four years? None at all. How many strategic investments, which have already been approved, have these four years been implemented? None at all. How many large and smaller enterprises have moved their homes abroad? Not only did large investments such as the Greek one, for example, become planned, but at the same time worthwhile Greek businesses, such as TITAN SA, transfer their headquarters. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But how are all this going to happen? And because time is pushing and I will be misused one or two minutes, Mr President, I will close with the implementation of the Public Investment Programme. The monthly bulletin for last November - the Ministry is the card, not mine - which concerns the implementation of the state budget, we see that the expenditure of the IGC was budgeted at 6.75 billion. The target was revised downwards at 5.95 billion. We are being absorbed - now that December is ending - at about 2.5 billion. So we want the 2.5 billion in a few days to go to 5.95 billion. Take your conclusions. Why, of course, is absorption delayed? Perhaps this also contributes to the unthinkable and many overcrowding.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u532	Mr. Bourra, if you'd like to finish. We've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u533	With these things, ladies and gentlemen, there is no growth. And I conclude, since I do not have to say what my colleagues, the rapporteur-general, Mr Stakoras, the special speakers and colleagues from the New Democracy have said about what you say in the budget. To conclude, Mr President, I must say that the New Democracy is ready with a programme which it voted on yesterday at its conference and which our President, Mr Mitsotakis, has committed himself. We believe, firstly, in a society that gives opportunities for prosperity to all. Secondly, in an open economy, innovative, creative, with investment and new jobs. Thirdly, in a political system that is functional and publicly effective. Fourthly, in a future education that is inevitably linked to the labour market...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u534	Mr. Bourra, you're done, please. You've been talking for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u535	I shall conclude, Mr President. Fifthly, in a state where law and security are terms of democracy - currently. Six, in a strong Greece, an equal partner in Europe, with Hellenism everywhere. That is what we believe, and that is why the Greek people will soon bring us to power. I am therefore voting against this budget. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u536	Mrs Stuboulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u537	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try not to be a bad economist, because I am not an economist, as some colleagues have previously become bad doctors and bad geopaths, because they were neither doctors nor farmers. I will mention only items which are well known, common to all and commonly accepted. The government therefore presents the fourth budget for this term, after the country has first come out of the process of the Troika's memorandums and suffocating commission. The main budgetary figures have improved, the primary government surplus of 3.8% of GDP. A financial reserve of ECU 24.1 billion was set up in the form of a global loan for the financing of small and medium-scale projects. and, in conjunction with other relief measures, debt is formed at 167.8% of GDP. Low? Not at all, but reduced by 12.6 percentage points compared to 2018. At the same time, growth continues for six consecutive quarters. Exports of goods and services continue to increase by 5.8% this year. Processing and industry indicators, as well as foreign direct investment, at EUR 3.1 million in 2015-2018 compared with EUR 1,462 million in 2009-2014. And when we talk about investment in our time, we are not talking about investment in rust. The above achievements led to the end of the memorandum and the withdrawal of the International Monetary Fund, resulting in the annulment of imposing measures that would continue after the memorials, such as the reduction of the personal difference in pensions, without any transaction with the Ambassadors' agreement, as the Conspiracy theories of Officer Response argue. Our foreign policy is autonomous from any other parameter and has been guided by the interests of the country, its international upgrading on the global soil. There are at least 350,000 more workers and workers in this country today than in 2014, three million nine hundred thousand workers, when in 2013-2014 that figure had fallen below 3.5 million. In fact, by improving the wage index by 2.5%, an improvement that will continue, as the extension of collective agreements and the principle of more favourable regulation has already begun. In 2019, young people and young people will see the abolition of their underpaid wages, i.e. increasing their wages by at least EUR 70, while the grant of their contributions has already been voted to counter the burden of the employer. Also, in 2019 there will also be an increase in the minimum wage, a equally positive horizontal measure, which the opposition did not dare to vote against. In 2019, a small and medium-sized category of self-employed - including farmers - will see a reduction in its insurance contributions. Also, cooperative farmers will be relieved of the trade fee. Immovable property owners will see a reduction of HISBIA, and even the more important the less their property is. The special levy on wine is abolished, but income tax on one unit this year is reduced, and successive reductions have been planned annually. Step by step, then, is the reversal of the excessive tax burden on the memoranda, because the collection of revenue has improved due to the targeted measures and reforms, the voluntary disclosure of income, debt arrangements, but also the targeted arrest of the fraudulent tax burden, not only by the lists hosting the relatives of anti-population, but also by gates of entry into the country, such as the Promachonas, for example, where the bridge and the scanner, as well as the communication of the customs office with the DUs, already yield worthwhile fruit, leaving reasonable questions for the years that have passed before that government has established them. Moreover, by four hundred million, VAT was only collected as a result of an increase in consumption. And while it will be the first year to implement tax reductions and wage increases, it will be another year to strengthen the social state. In schools, a permanent staff will be appointed after ten years, school meals will be extended to all primary schools from the new year - cost of EUR 200 million - the capacity of children's stations will be increased by 30,000 seats, so that no child can stay outside - cost of EUR 45 million - and vouchers are increased, which are already increased by 48,000 compared to 2014-2015. Furthermore, the payment of a rental allowance, EUR 400 million for 1,3 million households in 2019 and EUR 600 million in 2020 shall apply. Primary health care structures are being set up for the first time, thousands of recruitments are being continued in the ESS and CEFHs, physics and Rehabilitation Centers are being reorganised. This year, the hosting centres and centres for women of violence are supported, with a view to their definitive transformation into permanent structures and the work of the Centre for Equality Research is strengthened. Continuing efforts will be required to cover the necessary costs to meet the increased commitments resulting from the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. Support will also be required for the national action plan to combat trafficking in human beings drawn up by the Office of the National Rapporteur and to cover expenditure initially by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is the main responsibility, but also by the relevant ministries. In prisons, the effort continues to improve detention conditions, increasing the credit for fuel supply, supply of medicines, provision of clothing. We don't know if it's reform, but starving and colding is a very bad thing both in prison and out of it. Also, there's a reduction in the dues of the ECJs, because another bad thing is to cut off your water. It also supports the work of the juvenile protection companies and strengthens the Restoration in order to encourage the reintegration of the detainees. With regard to local government (a) and (b) in addition to the increase in the Common Independents, "PHILIDIS" programmes will already be implemented to finance water supply and sewage treatment, wastewater treatment, wastewater modernization, rehabilitation of wastewater, rehabilitation of CIDs, rural roads, maintenance of school buildings and use of municipal buildings and more, after years of dramatic deprivation of resources. The country is therefore recovering and this is becoming increasingly noticeable. The Greek society wants to participate in the planning of the next day. It must not be disorientated by catastrophe. In addition, many people are no longer convinced, after so much devastation of this catastrophe. We have every reason to vote in favour of the fourth budget that this government brings with it, with the expectation - as much as this does not like the opposition - to bring and implement many more expansionary budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u538	Thank you, Mrs. Stuboulis. Mr. Bukokouros has the floor and Mrs. Kafantaris immediately thereafter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u539	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr President, I would like you to allow me to join my voice in condemning today's insidious bombing of the 'SKAI' complex and the 'Kathimerini' newspaper. It was a bombing attack that aimed at the heart of liberation. But after expressing my support for the workers of SKAI and KATHMERINI, I must stress that freedom of speech is more possible than any bomb. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you are vain if you believe that the coming 2019 budget will be marked by the foreign development budget that the government has put forward and which we are discussing. However, it is the events that will mark 2019 pleasantly, but also unpleasantly, as we appreciate. The sad thing is that your Government will, unfortunately, complete the assignment of our national interests to those who are in charge of Macedonia's Greekity. But there is also a great pleasure, and that will be the political change that comes and which you are aware of. As far as the budget is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, in particular now, the government is failing to achieve any objectives. There is no more serious element in the image of an economy than growth rates, of course, growth that will be spread across society and that will be fair. But when targets are not met, how can this be done? And what did the government achieve for four years? I will mention her forecasts in 2017 in the budgets that we discussed: forecast growth of 2.7%. He only brought 1.5 percent. In 2018, it had predicted 2.5%. He brought growth of 2.1%. For 2019, the European Commission estimates that 2.5% of the growth rate will be 2%. I do not want to mention your achievements in 2015 and 2016, because we are talking about ruin. That's not a simple number, Mr. Ministers. It takes some tens of billions of GDP from the real economy. Otherwise, you claim to have removed the country from the memoirs. If you took the country out of the memos, why don't you go out to the markets? With what growth, with which investment climate, did you get the country out of the memos? And the memorial policies you've signed, the excesses, the assignment of public property for nine years, the overtaxation that you're trying to reduce drops - drops, that's not memorial? I see it in my constituency too. The factories close down and the tourist investments are hampered by your services and your civil servants, by the relevant ministers. They are candidates, mature investments. You're acting like nothing's going on. You seem to think it will rain growth. That's not how it works. It hasn't happened anywhere. It's never happened in history in any country. How do you think it can happen? I won't talk about taxes. Our rapporteur and colleagues have also spoken. It's dozens of new taxes. Income tax: From 26% to 29%. Now promise me you'll reduce it to 1% every year. That is what you do: Take three years and give the election time. Take ten and return one as a dividend. We'll talk about the social dividend and your social sensitivity then. But I hear a lot about unemployment. I heard a colleague earlier say 'the world was eating in the trash, and now they're all happy'. He doesn't tell us what wages are happy. Data from "ERGANI", October 2018: From the new contracts, 54% are part-time. Only 46% is full-time. Didn't you yell at the streets 'half the job, half the life', ladies and gentlemen of the majority? Haven't you turned young people into a generation of 360 euros? Is 290 euros a wage? When did you see this again?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u540	Where did you see these?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u541	I told you. These are elements from the ‘ERGAN’ 2018, the 10th month. Look at the evidence. You say you've reduced unemployment. On the one hand, you do not receive unemployment at 27%. It was under 25%. She was high, of course. It is at 19.6%, while in the medium-term 2015-2018, Minister, had predicted unemployment of 15.9%. You say that we have given three hundred and fifty thousand job losses, but you do not say about the hundred and fifty thousand who have been lost because you have not accelerated the decline in unemployment. You read the numbers as they suit you. I'm not going to tell you about late payments. They are decommissioned at a constant rate of 2.6 billion from the real economy. What about the Public Investment Programme? Three years have lost 3 billion of the real economy. How do you expect growth? What is the role of the state in the development process? What great work have you envisioned, planned, and started accomplishing? None. What major investment has been made over your days? None. How will this long-standing development come? Not to mention the outstanding pensions, which are over a hundred thousand. Look, for everything the Greek people can forgive you, and for the lies you have said and for the "achievements". For what it will not forgive you is that on your own days - according to figures from 2017 and 2018 until October - forty thousand less Greeks are born every year. The births of all the previous years were between a hundred ten and a hundred twenty thousand. Now, 2017 and 2018 are between eighty and eighty-five thousand. Greece's missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u542	Since 2000, it's been...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u543	See the evidence you're interrupting me, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u544	I'm a gynecologist, I know it from the outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u545	In 2017 we had eighty-one thousand births. And that is why you will also be accountable to the Greek people and to history. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President. As for your social mark, you break numbers. You're saying absolute numbers. However, anyone looking at the qualitative analysis of social spending will see that we spend 26.6% of GDP on social expenditure. Because we will measure the social costs on GDP. From this 26.6% 65% goes to pensions. Of course, we do not mean that pensions should be reduced. It goes without saying that we must increase GDP, which you do not increase. Of the remaining 35%, 4% of social expenditure is provided for in support of the family. The average in the European Union is 8.7%. Housing costs are lower than in Bulgaria too. Bulgaria spends 1.6% of GDP. Our country spends 0.9%. The average European term is 4.2%.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u546	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u547	I'm done, Mr. President. For the health category and HEIs, expenditure is 26% of social expenditure, when the average in the European Union is 36.9%. And for the unemployment that you are saying that you have reduced it, you are spending just 3.7% of social spending when Spain did not record so high a figure of 8.1%. That's your social sign. It is easy to harness numbers, but what these figures really mean is more talk, ladies and gentlemen. And in case you haven't figured it out, it's time for you to leave! That is why we are voting against the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u548	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second. I'll only read two numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u549	Yes, Minister. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u550	Thank you very much, Mr President. I know it's late. I won't talk for more than a minute. I refer to ELSTAT: employment situation and unemployment rate. Monthly labour force survey results. January 2015. Total unemployed: One million two hundred thirty-three thousand. Unemployment rate: 25.7%.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u551	27% were said by all previous colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u552	Mr. Buquarre, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u553	Workers: three million five hundred sixty-five thousand. This Decision shall enter into force on the These are the latest data available from ELSTAT. Unemployed: eight hundred seventy-seven thousand. Unemployment rate: 18.6%, 7% below. Workers: three million eight hundred eighty thousand. Three hundred and fifteen thousand on top. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u554	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u555	I'm the last speaker, but I'll be consistent in my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u556	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u557	Look at the Minutes, Minister. They all said 27 percent.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u558	What is the equivalent of the European Union, you did not say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u559	Mr. Bourra, Mr. Buckore, please. My colleague's up at the Step. Please. You're the only ones who're interrupting. Come on, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u560	First of all, the fact that the New Democracy has the same elements and most of its speakers here say concrete elements which are not true does not mean that this is the reality. The figures are specific. There's ELSTAT, which reflects reality. Of course, I'll agree with Mr. Bukkoro on one thing. He said apologise to the Greek people. Of course, we apologise to the Greek people, because we took him out of the memos, because from 25-26% of GDP reduction from 2010 to the end of 2014, our country's GDP begins to increase. There are also a number of other elements, which I will say further. First of all, yes, we have a budget that is the first to have no unbearable burden measures for the Greek people, but it has relief and development measures, measures to restore injustices for all workers, for all our fellow citizens. We must, however, say here that the Greek people went through a difficult time, stood still, set back to the difficulties, in fact, of all these policies that brought about the situation at the end of 2014, the decades of policies of the New Democracy and of PASOK, which brought our country to the forefront of bankruptcy. It is therefore a fact that the Greek people have lifted the burden, but disproportionately, ladies and gentlemen. When the economic elite of the country finds a refuge for tax evasion and tax exemption on the paradoxical islands, its political expressions move our finger here, within the House, and abdicate us for charges in the middle class. They're talking about pension cuts, something that didn't come out of them and now they're looking to find something similar to pensions. Just like they didn't get out much more these three and a half years. Of course, they resort to the affectionate tactic of make news, made news. But what's the target? The cultivation of fear. A people afraid to forget easily. The reality is, however, different. Greece has changed course. And that's not what SYRIZA says, it's what the statements of top European officials say. Mr. Reggling said: "Today is a day of celebration. Greece will come out of the ESM programme and regain its financial independence.’ Jean-Claude Juncker said: "After the completion of the support and stability programme, the Greek people start a new chapter." Donald Tusk said: "Congratulations to Greece and its people to end the project." Of course, Mario Stento, who said on 20 August: "First time since 2010 Greece can stand on its feet again". How did this climate change at international and European level? Do we not remember once when European officials spoke of the lazy Greeks, the Greeks who don't work, the wretched and I don't know what else, and therefore the Greeks had to be punished on the basis of the north European Protestant logic? However, ladies and gentlemen, the change in the economic climate of Greece is first and foremost certified by the economic and social indicators. The official figures must be seen and not used as we wish. First of all, the fall in unemployment, which the Minister mentioned, which fell below 19%, the growth rates, the recession we had before, the increase in industrial output, the increase in exports by 7.6%. There is another element, that in the first nine months of 2018, we had an increase in the construction sector, which means other things, because a number of businesses are based on what we call construction. However, most important of all - let me - is that, based on a recent survey, the Greeks see that 2019 will be better than 2018. It is an important finding that shows that optimism is slowly restored. We, as a government, must now restore full regularity in this country. What's normal? Regularity is a working landscape with collective labour agreements, combating 'black' work, not wages for racist age divisions, gradual increase in lower wages, free access for all to health. Regularity is a European country, which must have forest maps, to have a real estate register, a clear investment landscape for each investor concerned. Normality means investment. Here too, because a lot has been said about investment, I will say that interest in our country has been high since 2017, when foreign direct investment has closed down to something less than EUR 4 billion. The participation of large energy colostrums in the hydrocarbon research really shows interest in our country and is a vote of confidence in the Greek economy. Regularity means a country equal to European and global events, much more now that our country is geopolitically emerging, taking advantage of its geographical position, where it tends to become an energy, digital, transit hub already, with large energy tripartite agreements with Cyprus, Israel, Egypt, in the gas sector. We are talking about large projects and investments, Mr Bourras, in the field of energy. The role of our country is being upgraded. The combination of new roads with the construction of East Med gas pipelines, which will carry natural gas from the Middle East to Europe, the EuroAsia Interconnector electrical interconnection, along with the interconnection of optical fibres that will bring Cyprus out of the energy and internet isolation and possible - I say - the discovery of hydrocarbon deposits in Greece, will indeed turn our country into an energy transit centre not only in the Balkans, but throughout the entire Eastern Mediterranean. We are therefore in a new era, ladies and gentlemen. And if we have read Euripides, we will remember that Euripides said that "the very difficult situations also bring great changes". At this very stage we are, because we do not want to go back to the 2008 development model that brought us here that brought us. We're talking about fair growth, about another model of development. We are talking about fair growth for people, with respect for the environment, always taking into account the challenges of the great global issue, which is climate change, which now exists in all areas of our policy, social, economic, political. That's all I wanted to say. Good night.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u561	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kafantaris. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-17-S1-commons.u562	The meeting for Tuesday, 18 December 2018, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, discussion and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘State Budget for the financial year 2019’.
