ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Thursday 19 April 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1497/16-2018 topical question by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Panagiotis Skouriakou, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Serious complaints of workers of the National Theatre". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1506/16-4-2018 by MP Achaias, New Democracy, Andreas Katsaniotis, Minister for the Interior, on the subject: “Destructive consequences of illegal immigration to the port of Patras”. 3. The 1487/12-2018 topical question by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Expansion of Rescue to Fichatis - Monastiraki - Mycenes". 4. The 1512-17-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “Security of the right to work for workers with a “block” at the Thessaloniki Water and Sewage Company (EEATH S.A.).)Services S.A.”. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 1507/16-4-2018, a topical question by MP I Athens, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Dangerous the smooth functioning of archaeological sites". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 1495/16-2018 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The creation of three new toll stations on the road axis Promahona - Serres - Port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for the Prefecture of Serres". 3. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “An update on the “integrated planning for the promotion, development and exploitation of Lake Ladona” in the Peloponnese Region. 4. The 1513/17-2018 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: “PROVET’s full-time workers”. 5. The 1514-17-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the serious problems of the national swimming pool of Heraklion (ESAKI). 6. Question No 1501/16-4-2018 by Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: 'Scandide legislative favor for the party's incomprehensibility! Rusfetti for Mitsotakis and Genuines who voted for the amendment together with the Governments....." 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question raised by Mr Mavroudi Voridis, Member of the Attica MEP, to the Minister of the Interior, on 'Delays in the process of issuing the new identities'. 8. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Sahinidis, Member of the People's Association, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on 'Continuing to remain unpaid'. 9. The question under number 1392/26-2018 of MP Grevenes of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Beyala to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: 'Reconstitution of the Chamber of Labour Inspectors' (SEPE)'. 10. The question asked by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Chryssolou Katsavria - Siloropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, entitled ‘ Upgrading the Centre for Animal Genetic Resources Carditsa. ’ 11. The question asked by MP Grevenes of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Beyalas to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Security with bachelor's responsibility for operators - drivers of agricultural machinery". 12. The 1326/16-3-2018 topical question of the Athens of Independent Greeks, Athanasios Papachristopoulos, to the Minister of the Interior, on "Police at the VIP guard." 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 1316/13-2018 topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Insurance in areas of Patras is increasing." 14. Observed. The question asked by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition, Antonio Balomannakis to the Minister of the Interior, dated 1286-12-3-2018, on the subject: ‘Capture of gaps in the Fire Corps by participants of the competition 2011’. 15. The 1149/26-2-2018 topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "About the para-state website, the unprecedented attack took place at the A.T. Cesarean’. 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The 1159/27-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiotas to the Minister of the Interior, on "Problems in the Operation of the Department of Border Guard (T.A.F.)" Pyonia’. 17. The 1151/26-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on "Questions about the agent's case based on P. Kammenos's revelations". 18. The 1311/13-2018 topical question of the Athens Parliamentary I, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Expression of crime in Athens". 19. The question by No 1229/5-3-2018 of Independent MEP B'Athens Eftathios Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Criminality and all kinds of attacks by underworld people and gadgets." REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Elias of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The problems of the irrigation - drainage network of Elias are multiplier. “Government Sword””. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK On today's agenda there are two draft laws, which are as follows: 1. Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Following the Military Cooperation Agreement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Hasimite Kingdom of Jordan’; and 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Only discussion and vote on the principle of the articles and of the draft law: ‘Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of National Defence of Canada and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia and the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ministry of Defence of Italian Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway and the Minister of Defence of National Defence of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of Slovakia and the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of the Republic of Norway as well as well as the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Iceland and the Republic of the Republic of Israel and the State of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Israel’. The drafts were adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of these agreements. However, because four ministerial amendments have been tabled - Nos 1552/82, 1553/83 and 1554/84 in the first agreement and No 1555/85 in the second agreement - I propose first of all that those who voted against or expressed reservations, in any case those who are concerned by those who belong to this category, as well as the Minister responsible for five minutes and then that the amendments with the Parliamentary Representatives, the rapporteurs and the special speakers should be debated and the relevant ministers who will speak for five minutes, if they so wish. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to read out a piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. It concerns Amendment No 1554/84 and amending Article 10(5)(b) for economic inspectors. From the Ministry of Justice, they told us that we should make a legislative improvement in relation to the personalisation of who is conducting interrogative actions. Legislative improvement is, therefore, as follows: The second subparagraph of Article 10(5)(b) of Law 4494/2017 (A'165) shall be recast as follows: ‘For this purpose, the Financial Inspectors shall carry out a preliminary examination or preliminary investigation on the basis of an appeal, and shall cooperate and endeavour on a case-by-case basis in cooperation with the Co-authorities, as well as the Public Prosecutors and Prosecutors, in accordance with the applicable provisions’. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u8	Here you go, Mrs. Canelle.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u9	Last night, on two agreements, which were discussed in committee in detail and in detail before Easter, we received amendments to the size of the bill. At 20.05 we received a 40-page amendment. I imagine the government wants to honor the Armed Forces. Minister, issues beginning with dividends, share fund, economic crime, asset exploitation are a bill size. You cannot imagine how many issues in forty pages with articles and it is just one amendment. And we are coming at a critical time both for the Armed Forces and for the country and with what has happened recently literally to "swap" time, on two contracts - one for SHAPE and the other for the Hasimite Kingdom of Jordan - a number of issues that require thorough discussion and possible amendments. And before we sit in front of the forty pages, it comes - rightly so, I will accept it as it is - from the Ministry of Justice a change - now listen! - to be clearer and more democratic, about the personalization of the person who will prosecute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u10	This is, of course, for the next convention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u11	Are we serious? I cannot make the complaint, which you must sign and explain what study is being done by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u12	Good, Mrs. Canelley.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u13	What study before we start? Why have you brought them here and now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u14	He'll explain it. It's for the next penalty. The Bureau was 'extra Large' in this case. Let's go to Mrs. Alonitou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, we must have a debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u16	The rapporteurs are different.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u17	I'm one. Let us have a debate where the rapporteur is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u18	And how can it be done? Talking after each other?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, we have done this before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u20	Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u21	All right, one after the other. Mrs Aylonitou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u22	We have agreed, Mr President. Can I make a suggestion on the deal?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u23	You've agreed. You're right. Did the New Democracy have any reservations?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u24	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u25	You've reserved for any chance. There's no possibility, so we're going to the next one. Who's having an objection?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u26	We have reservations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u27	Yeah, but for every chance you can. You want to talk now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u28	If I may, for ten seconds a proclamation proposal, which might help you. Because there are amendments, should all parties be given the floor? There are four amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u29	Yes, sir. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u30	Thank you. We kept a reservation. It is a constant tactic, Mr President, in order to take the floor in plenary - a good time now - so that, with our word, not on the subject of contracts, but on all the issues that are running and affecting our country and the Ministry, we can have a reason and it does not seem that this House ignores what is happening outside it. Firstly, I would like to say, Mr President, that there is no essential reason, as I said in committee, to say 'no' to the two conventions and we will say 'yes', we will vote in favour. However, for the amendments, even for one, which both of us have a positive approach with Mr Theocharopoulos, but also our sector, it is the practice, especially with the amendment that Mrs Kanelles has mentioned - I say the same - that we should not repeat - that we will take a negative attitude to all four amendments. Now, taking advantage of and not taking advantage of the Minister's presence here, I would like to say this to him: we are confronted on many issues and we will be confronted again. However, the country is going through some important difficulties, which are also your responsibility. You know it and we know it. Therefore, there is no room for micropolicy here. However, with real questions, I am addressing the Minister of Defence and I ask him: Is the Deputy Minister's phrase, which said that the country is in undeclared war with Turkey, a phrase which reflects the Greek Government's attitude to your interests and yours, or is it something that one might express another government view? In the difficult times that the country is going through, we as opposition are trying to harmonise ourselves according to national interests and speak with one voice all the parties. But we do not know, Minister, what really is what constitutes the government line: are the phrases of your government representative, the phrases of your Deputy for the hostage, for example, which expressed legal objections, the phrase that Greece is now in undeclared war with Turkey or any other phrase, which we must put down and look at the parties how we can harmonise our practice? I want a real one on this, for your part, to be clear. The second issue is of minor political importance, but of serious importance when assessing ours. I've asked you this question. You didn't answer. I do not want to demagogue, but there is the given - as I said in my question, from 4-1-2018 - where an officer without invoking his status makes a post on social media and pays it by secondment. We think about it and ask you: Was his problem that he was serving at the Deputy Minister of Defence, Mr. Gennimata, when he was in this ministry? Is it possible for the Ministry to monitor what every officer says and deal with him on the basis of his political words? I also told you here, in this Chamber, when the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence was meeting, that, as you have approached the question of trade unionism in the area of the Armed Forces, we will have problems. I told you that you should not show a discriminatory attitude in favour of one of the two actors and that we should all see unified trade unionism in this very sensitive area. It was adopted on their own conflicts, Decision 254/2018 of the Athens Court of First Instance, declaring outside the legal reality of the country, the WTO. And not only have you used this trade union to represent the area of the military in a number of special bodies, but you are allowing these officers to express very much - very brutal and barbaric expressions against justice. You need to see it. Finally, again in this Chamber, I told you that this House of internal affairs inspectors, which you have created, has many problems with the integration of officers into it. On the basis of your last statement to take part in the relevant procedures and to serve this new army officers, problems arise. Are you aware? If you have, please give us a brief answer or comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Kedicoglou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u32	First of all, let us make it clear that the ratification of the Military Cooperation Agreement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Hasimite Kingdom of Jordan does not raise any objections. It's in a framework of agreements. Many of them have been signed. As we said in committee, we would like to know how similar agreements are being made over the past few years. The current juncture further underlines the need for such cooperation, so we are positive. As far as the amendments are concerned, I agree with Mrs Canelles and Mr Loverdo that it is not right for the amendments to come at the last minute, for example, as this is the case. It concerns the establishment of specific provisions for the setting-up of the Selection Board of Heads of regular civil servants of the Ministry of National Defence. Should we not have heard the view of the club in committee too? With regard to the amendment to transfer funds from the Drought Army, such as the CPMM, clubs, offices at the TTHA, we would like to stress that the special sector of financial support for military dividends is being provided from these resources. It's a percentage of the operation of the clubs. Just take care of this amount not to be reduced. From some contacts we make, there seems to be no possibility of that. We simply underline that, because pensioners are very much supported by this aid. With regard to the last amendment to prevent and investigate economic crimes, because we have voted against Article 10, of course we can only vote against the amendment and recall that the political leader cannot control such a service. We are voting against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, as regards the amendment to NATO SHAPE.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u34	Now are we also talking about the second convention? Are we both talking about all the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u35	Oh, no. We are now talking about the first three amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u36	And why does he get up to talk about another matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u37	Then you'll speak, Mr. Prison. Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. The first contract between the Greek Ministry of National Defence and NATO for SHAPE is in fact a typical obligation for our country in the context of an alliance, in this case NATO, to which we belong. With the present ratification of this Memorandum of Understanding, care is taken to finance both the design and the construction of new facilities for the SHAPE school, the Europe's Supreme Allied Forces General in the city of Belgium for the children of the officers there and the civil servants. We will stress the way we have done to such committees that the data has now changed. The geostrategic reality differs from that of the 1950s. There is no longer the Warsaw Pact, there are no more supposed threats. NATO's role and its existence should be reviewed. What exactly is NATO serving at this juncture? NATO, at least to date, has been acting as a military arm, as a head of the spear of US planning against Russia. One key question is that it will now work. NATO is obsolete because it has not helped against terrorism, but the military organization remains very important to him, as United States President Donald Trump recently stated in an interview with the London newspaper "THE TIMES". Therefore, any discussion and reflection of this meaning has, in other words, the role of NATO and the question of whether there is a reason for it now. We didn't see what NATO did in September 1955 in the City, we didn't see it in our Cyprus when it didn't stop, but instead it helped to consolidate "attila" and "finished ones, we don't see it now that it was supposed to protect our maritime borders, which in the end is also a maritime border of the alliance from the constant flows of the invasion into the essence of illegal immigrants. We also haven't seen it take place for our two officers who are confiscated. In practice, however, we are members of this particular alliance, we are involved in the structure of this mission, and given that it is the construction of the headquarters school, which will be attended by the children of the military, but also by the civil servants from our country, we will vote'residents'. Regarding the ratification of the Agreement between Greece and the Hasimite Kingdom of Jordan: This ratification, which comes under this draft law, was signed in Athens on 22 January 2001. It is one of the typical sanctions for military cooperation in our country with other countries. You have established a broad framework for cooperation in various areas, such as defence industries, the exchange of experience and information in military matters, military training and various other areas. Here we have military cooperation with Jordan. These agreements are supposed to be the benefits that our country gains from such cooperation. As far as Jordan is concerned, it is well known that in the war with Syria against Assad, Jordan along with Turkey trained gangs and promoted them in the Syrian territory. The so-called “Free Syrian Army”, “Free Syrian Army”, known as FSA, was equipped with various weapons systems through Turkey and Jordan. So FSA was a construction of the secret services of the United States, Israel and Saudi Arabia. His plans, however, failed after the fierce and heroic resistance of the Syrian people. Any military successes of the FSA were the result of direct orders and technical assistance from Jordan. If we turn back time, we will see that from Jordan Muslim terrorists moved towards Afghanistan. Among these Muslims who co-existed in Afghanistan were the well-known Osama bin Laden, the CIA capitalist, whose team eventually evolved with the blessings of the United States to all of us known to us in Al-Qaida. Al-Qaeda's follow-up is the Islamic state's current carnival, an army of terrorists born on the Syrian-Turkey and Syrian-Jordan border and was financed out of the West to combat the secular government of Bashar al-Assad and the destabilisation of the Middle East. Here I would like to add that the attacks that Syria has taken were completely inappropriate, because President Bashar al Assad had no reason to cast chemicals from the moment he managed and established, fought ISIS and defeated it, as did AL NUSRA. There was absolutely no reason to make such a suicidal move in order to give the 'allies' the right to make the attack they made. We condemn, of course, as Golden Dawn the attack it had suffered. Recall that according to official data, at least until 2013, the CIA coordinated and fed the Islamists with weapons while training them in Jordanian camps. It is well known and officially - and the CIA has admitted it - that in 2013 at least three thousand tonnes of war material from Croatia had arrived through Turkey and Jordan, with funding from Saudi Arabia and Qatar, at the hands of the jihadists. It is also known that thousands of jihadists left their positions in southern Syria and fled to the United States of Jordan. So training camps were also in Turkey, Jordan and Saudi Arabia. The biggest of them you all know is in Aman. Jordan and Turkey border with Syria and Iraq, two countries where the Islamic state has set large areas under its control. Let us not forget that Jordan and Turkey have signed a number of economic agreements which concern mainly investment, industry, exports and gas transport. Of course, there were times when relations between Jordan and Turkey were not particularly good as a result of the Syrian war and the refugee crisis. Jordan's King Abdullah II had fired fire on Turkey, accusing the country of deliberately allowing extremists to flee to Europe and has not hesitated to say that Turkey is exporting terrorists to Jordan. So, what kind of military co-operation can be said? And with who? With those who support jihadists? The only thing one could expose to the positive of this agreement is that our Special Forces executives have been hosted and trained in the Center for Special Operations of Kings Abdullah, a confessed huge complex of specially studied training areas for modern anti-terrorist, field shooting and driving forces, which simulates an urban battle environment with a background of common parts of the Middle East. However, this is only a parameter, which we also highlight and has nothing to do with the overall rationale for military cooperation with Jordan. We will vote against this ratification. With regard to the four amendments tabled, the last one tabled yesterday is a bill on its own, and there is no time, if you are not a military with economic knowledge, from last night at 8 a.m. until today, to be able to study an amendment of such dimensions. With regard to Amendment No 1552 and specific number 82: this amendment is moving in a positive direction. Indeed, the problem of the housing of soldiers serving in border units is also known and the use of funds from the National Defence Fund to build an ESA is moving in the right direction. As regards the amendment of Article 11 of the Law. 3646/2008, special categories of admission to military schools other than children of deceased soldiers at war or at peacetime in the performance of an orderly service or this will include their brothers. Clearly we're positive. It's a recognition of the sacrifice of Armed Forces officials. Regarding the Foreign Language Military School, its function is now covered by the Interclade Institute of Armed Forces Language Learning, where executives from all three branches of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies. We shall vote 'yes'. With regard to Amendment No 1553, which concerns supplementing the provisions of Article 86: this amendment defines in particular for the Ministry of National Defence the composition of the five-member Selection Board of Heads, the GPA, regular politicians and officials with a working relationship of private law without indefinite duration. We have a concern, Minister, as to why it does not participate in the composition of the ETUC in an active military process. We believe that especially for the Ministry of National Defence and because of its special mission there should be a representative from the Army. We will vote against this amendment. With regard to Amendment No 1554: the Ministry of Home Affairs will be able to carry out investigations within the framework of its competences, i.e. financial crimes and corruption crimes which harm the financial interests of the Ministry of Defence or the subject-matter and supervised legal persons. We shall vote on this amendment. With regard to the last amendment, number 1555, I would like to say the following. Here the basis for calculating dividends from the Military, Navy and Air Force Equity Funds is redefined, redefined, and the possibility of granting until the adoption of a definitive temporary dividend and financial aid regulation is adopted. To address serious issues such as the issues relating to thousands of Equity Fund beneficiaries and the three Weapons are not dealt with by amendments, mini-legislative drafts of the last minute. You have several issues inside which you need further study. There are some positive points, such as the provision of temporary dividends and financial assistance, which I have mentioned before, until the main pension is determined. But dealing with such issues with last-minute amendments is certainly not appropriate. We will vote'residents' in this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u39	So do we. Mrs. Canelley has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Since they're all condensed, I'll start from theoretically easier or, if you want, the ones that make an eye. Theoretically and practically why should anyone object to us also being involved in the creation of a school in which children of soldiers serving in Brussels will go? But it's not about talking at this hour in this country about rope in the hanger's house. Yesterday the Prime Minister in Kastelorizo, despite the fact that he went very optimistic about economics, about as Mr Papandreou had done a number of years ago, heard and received complaints about schools and teachers. I did not take it out of my head, he said it, and indeed with the amazing commentary position: 'I thought the matter had been resolved and that things were better'. They have a problem that is tragic - because I heard it from the mouth of a soldier whose children have to go to this school - while in Greece schools do not discuss the situation in which they are, with the shrinks, the shortcomings, the appointments of teachers, etc. I'm not going into this analysis. In this condensation how can one spread out and have a serious conversation about it? Money's about a million. Theoretically and practically not much. Now, as a result of the exacerbation of situations, millions are fleeing like marrow leaves. It's not much 1 million for such a school. I'll agree it's not. I asked: What if we were to say that we are in difficulty right now, and we need to and do not want to pay them? What would Natali’s solidarity do to which you have not just bowed, but literally drag, drag under NATO standards, about how you think and how you breathe, things that have not daring governments of other American standards? Do you know what the answer was? If we do not participate, because it takes a Greek program three times a week, they will tell us that since you do not participate you cannot put a Greek program for your children at school. In my language, in my simple understanding, this is called "immigration": Pay to have a school. It is the quintusia of privatization of the cultural heritage, for which so many so many are being cut off. Well, don't go to the details. You want a school too, big. You want him to have courtesys. You want him to make it so, to do it anyway. You want a million, too. We will tell you 'no', because if anyone is going to pay for all of this to get the children of military education, three times a week to do Greek besides the international school, not all of them can be discussed at a Baccalaureate level, let me, even at this level and then talk about the shortcomings in public schools. It's not possible, it's literally a rope talk in a hanged house. Let's go to the second contract, the one with Jordan. I was expecting today, after everything that has happened in the Middle East, that there will be a different approach, unless it has been done somehow, and we are only being watched in artificial alliances, in levels of democracies that are coming here in Pykka, it says about democracy, then it goes to the European Council and all of us are making a conclusion calling for the release of our two prisoners, and that is where we will stop. In other words, this European solidarity in the Middle East a hundred years after the Sikes Pact that forces us to do - because that is actually - the reordering of forces after the end of World War I the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, I'm guessing he won't ring the bell right now. You are coming today and we are talking about redeployment in an area where the debate is the Shia arch, Iran, the restructuring of what Iran will do. We never heard what you talked to Trump. You tell me, somebody needs to know first what Trump talks about with himself and with the war interests in the United States. But would you come to tell us that this is all about the safety of the world, about the security of the peoples of the region when we have an influx increase in Evros, an influx increase in the islands? I am not saying it, the Minister responsible says it, the people in charge are saying it, the people who guard the border and the home, mispaid, who have to pay already, and their child does not learn Greek if they go to any naval mission abroad. So you come with an agreement with Jordan, in which we are very proud to be going to Jordan, which has a great tradition in training special forces! So we're gonna twist history by talking in here. We're going to twist history. We will learn the children that Jordan is a country that has tradition in democratic place and is able to train special forces to deal with bad ones! What are we talking about in here when we talk about the deal with Jordan? About the axis he has with Jerusalem? I say Jerusalem at all, although the Arab League, in which Jordan is part, has just decided the day before yesterday that it does not want Israel's capital to be Jerusalem, as did Trump, Guatemala and three other four countries. We're coming to go with Jordan to train what? Does the military police or police - why are there such plans - in those countries that are not going to sit well in order to deal with internal tensions? Are we so foolish that Greek citizens and Greek Members of Parliament are not seeing that everything is being done, in this conflict of interests, for oil, for the passages, for the AEZ, for the money of the United States war industry? The story is the money. We can't pretend. The Commission, the committee responsible, met at the end of the day for 1 billion. Arion! Right now they've gone and emptied their bombs. Who's benefiting? The people who ate them in the head? With pride without side damage? Or the war industry? Thirty-five billion is the US export. One half of this is the Arab States and our own, and we urgently need to arm ourselves to face an enemy with whom our naval allies open their cards and play cards every day with the peoples of the region. Why would anyone say yes? What's his interest? All the institutes in the west, your own, the money made from the pockets of the bourgeoisie, the civilized Western world, speak of the imminent destabilization of Jordan and Lebanon and of the increasing chances of war in Iran, the peoples. From where and from where do we ensure? What are we making sure here? Did we not see the attack, despite the Prime Minister's statements, on the country's attitude that we are not involved in the bombing? In Yugoslavia we were not typically involved in the bombings and were passing through the troops here equipped. They leveled the place and passed. So you're resurrecting the clock to that famous ironic "girls, the fleet"? And now you're calling "Boys, NATO"? Will NATO save us? Say where NATO intervened? What alliance of willing men within NATO's tricks, basically competitive, did it not result in a drama? Haircut of Libya, haircut of Iraq, revival of nationalism, revival of religious fanaticism, creation of states, dismantling of states! The "hards" were re-marketed with five hundred names. Chemical weapons, provocations, Islamic states, Daes - because they also have different - groups, threats. The horror is selling. Which country? In Greece, where Europeans are waiting for an ally to its east borders and do not agree to the fact that they do not pay as the private school in Turkey to keep the refugees four and five million on its territory and on the north side, where we want to solve the problems with our neighbours, we have a closed border? The country is a lousy political, imperialist sandwiches of interests between East and West. As long as you sprinkle it with heroic nice talk, victims will fall, as will the poorly paid soldiers. You come here today with the amendments - that is, the insanity of reality - to calm down the passion and pain of the soldiers. That is what you are doing in the amendments. You don't do anything more. We are also voting against the agreement with Jordan. And you come to the amendments and you bring us an amendment in the black night, which wants us to start discussing here, without thorough study, the very serious issue for the three equity funds and the corresponding specific accounts. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We can't do research to see who's going to have the expression of an opinion, what's needed, to manage this property. The report by the General Accounting Office of the State shows that there will be revenues for the Equity Fund for the Army and Navy. In other words, to make revenues, we will have a reduction in the remuneration of the beneficiaries. How can it have revenues and increase the shares of the beneficiaries. How can it have revenues and increase the shares of the beneficiaries? Do we forge it like that so they can cool? Because the equity funds are a long story. That is what we will say 'no', for a very simple reason of decency and honesty. We cannot look at it from last night until this morning to such an extent that we can even tell you a'resident'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u41	You said that, Mrs. Canelley. You've already said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u42	Look, you did not intervene to interrupt others who were talking about irrelevant issues from what is being discussed today. Do not interfere with me on the contents. Don't open a censorship account, with the pretext of accelerating time. You told me I'd have as much time as I need. In fact, I need - three times four, twelve minutes for the amendments, and five minutes for each convention - twenty-two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u43	Twenty-two?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u44	That's what I need. I'll do less. You'll be patient.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u45	Where's that account from? Where does it come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u46	Under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u47	Come on. Whoever says a lot is not...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u48	Would you give me less than two minutes for each amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u49	But it doesn't go with the minutes on the amendment, Mrs. Canelle. You're not here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u50	Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u51	Come on. Come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u52	Are you serious? Will you cut me off, under pretext, on the contents, especially me and anyone else?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u53	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u54	Last guy spoke an hour and a half about ISIS and Al-Qaeda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u55	For Christ's sake! Is there someone who spoke more than you? To accept that you must speak more than anyone, but there was no one to violate this rule. There was no one who violated this rule that Mrs Canelley speaks more than anyone in the House. You spoke more than anyone. That's what I'm saying. Keep going. Do more of your own bills.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u56	I'll go on reminding you of something. Because you're also a fellow journalist...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u57	I'm not here in this capacity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u58	...and because you're a follower of an individual propaganda to me, there's a rule that says that Canelle's talking more than anyone, I'm going to reverse him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u59	Now what...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u60	I'll say what I want. You won't stop me. I'll say what I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u61	I do not control the content of your words.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u62	I'll answer you because you interrupted me. I have a right to answer you in the time I have left. Mrs. Kanelle is studying more than anyone, and you can't catch her as a chicken, nor can the Communist Party, on what you're bringing here to get through by speeding up ceremonial procedures. "We left you and spoke, thanks we did. Pass forty pages without knowing what you say and what you read!" I'm going to the other amendments. The amendments, as they have come, allow a room to think about why you have brought them honestly. You make internal changes, which may also be useful. If you brought them in like a bill, that's why I asked you to tell me about the emergency, we'd call institutions? Hand to heart, tell me. Would there be bodies coming in here to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u63	I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u64	Some would have been able to hear about these internal changes that you want to make in the careers and in the development of the managers of financial care and accounting. People would come here and tell us from their experience five things. We can't. To prevent and investigate economic crimes: they are old. You're bringing it back to renew it. Okay, is this an appropriate time? Something's come up and you're bringing it emergency? Did you discover any fat crimes and want to promote this thing too? Should I wait for some scandal to dig? I'm talking about the urgency procedure. And at the end of the day, you brought in the investigation of economic crimes - take note - concerning the financial interests of the Ministry of Defence and the Internal Affairs department will carry out investigations and bring us the variant. I'll tell you what's going on. These may be very important. It might be a good thing for some, some might get out of hand. I do not want to diagnose bad intentions at this time. Timing, i.e. time choice, makes me suspicious of the study of the matter. I feel, and it seems to me, that you want to reassure to a considerable extent the Armed Forces, which are affected by the extermination of their duties and which is a human resource whose goodwill must and must be collected by the country and no one on staff and no one on their own. Work relations, in essence, have suffered the destruction of industrial relations in general. Consolation to the sick, until his soul comes out! The Greek soul says it is very resilient and sometimes angry. When he is angry, he never expresses himself as an angry bill. It is only expressed as anger from the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u66	You're in such a hurry that you don't even want my vote. We say 'no' to Amendment No 1555 and to Amendments Nos 1552, 1553, 1554.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u67	Thank you. Mr. Pschakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, should we not end with the circle of rapporteurs?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u69	After Mr. Prison. You want to take the floor now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u70	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u71	And Mr. Prescottis is a rapporteur. Here you go, Mr. Prussakis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, today's debate on the international convention concerning the SHAPE International School in NATO is taking place in the shadow of the painful loss of Captain George Baltadouros, who lost his life defending our national airspace. I would also like to express my condolences to the members of his family, as well as to the members of the Air Force. It is known that our pilots have been in red all this time and of course for years, as we all know from the recent history of our country. However, because of the escalating tension on the part of our neighbours even more recently with the national airspace breaches being a daily phenomenon. That is why all of us must respect the Aegean guards who perform their duties in full under adverse conditions, often sacrificing their lives, as was the case with Captain George Baltador. Unfortunately, however, on the occasion of the loss of the pilot of Mirage, we have seen many irrationalities in so-called social media. One of them with regret I found that he had the signature of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the political leader of the wronged pilot, who should have expressed the state as a whole as a whole to make an official announcement of his pain and his respect for the loss of the captain and not to make an anonymous reference through twitter. Because the one pilot mentioned by the Minister has a name, a last name, a family and two children. And the return of gratitude from the state requires historical and archivists to report the name of the captain who lost his life in an hour of duty in the most official way. Respect for the Armed Forces does not appear in uniform, nor in nights in Evros on the border, nor in excess, nor in extreme expressions that do not suit a Western minister, with the illusion that this stimulates the morality of the military officials.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, will the gentleman continue his misery? It does not talk about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u74	And of course neither with expressions like what you said about the soldiers who are in Adrianopolis, that they will remain prisoners in Turkey for fifteen years, further griefing their families and anger to the Jews who have bleeded with this story. Fortunately, our President, in the context of internationalisation, called on the European People's Party to hold a summit as initiatives are taken within the European Parliament. And yesterday we were all informed that in the European Parliament all the wings had to say a positive word about these two children who are illegally detained, unjustly in the neighbouring country, because they did not violate the border of the neighbouring country. After all, ladies and gentlemen, our two soldiers were guarding the Euro-Atlantic borders at the same time, guarding the Greek-Turkish border and providing services to the neighbouring country. Because when one guards one's borders, it's not just his own. He's guarding his neighbor, too. Thirdly, I would like to say that these borders are European and we rightly expect the European Parliament to make a proper decision tomorrow and to put the neighbouring country before the responsibilities. However, Mr Ministers, if you were to prove in practice your interest in the officials of the Armed Forces, you should return 50%, as decided by the Supreme Council of the country, the Council of State. Today, too, the newspapers publish figures on the violation of our land borders.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u75	Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, you have expressed reservations in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, please, if you're kind, I'll be closed for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u77	Your time's up. Look, this is where there must be little respect for ourselves above all when we go to Stepma. You have voted in favour, you have asked for the floor to cover all the issues that you have in your mind, because you are also a studyer as much as I have before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u78	Mr. President, I know that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u79	I don't care what you know, I tell you honestly. Your time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u80	Don't you want to hear what we're going to say about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u81	Time's up. You had five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u82	So fast?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u83	How did time run out?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u84	What's "how's it finished"? He had five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u85	It would have been over now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I am a rapporteur on the New Democracy side. Are you giving the floor to the spokesman of the New Democracy? Please for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u87	This is where we're gonna need a pedophile. You're asking for two minutes to say what? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u88	The ones that are interested in the whole world.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u89	Omer Celik's announcement read.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u90	If you insist, I now come to the convention we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u91	Are we talking about a contract? Is that true?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u92	I also stressed in the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs that the aim of this memorandum is to help finance both the design and the construction of new facilities for the SHAPE International School in NATO. We expressed the reservations, Mr President, because we asked the Minister of National Defence three questions. The two have been answered, but one has not been answered in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u93	I haven't spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u94	In fact, we asked whether national lessons will be taught in primary school and national anniversaries for at least the primary school students, as was the case so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u95	Where did you ask that? Why are you lying to the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u96	Because we didn't get an answer, I hope we get an answer today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u97	I see you at primary school for other reasons. For other reasons, we have to go back to primary school!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u98	But he's lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u99	The New Democracy is positive in this contract, as, among other things, children of the Armed Forces who are serving at the Supreme General in Monastery are facilitated by the fact that they do not pay tuition fees, since the Monastery is more than sixty kilometers from Brussels, where there is a Greek and European school, which is the best solution, but it is a long distance away.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u100	Please, Mr. Treasury, put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u101	Would you like to hear New Democracy's position on the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u102	No, I don't want to hear anything. You used your time for different issues. Now what do you want me to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u103	As long as you do not want to hear, at least I can inform the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u104	No, you'll let him know outside. Time's up, Mr. Prison.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, thank you for your kindness.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u106	Be well. Thank you, too. Mr. Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. We, as we said, are voting in favour of the sanctions for the two conventions. For the amendments only one comment: although some of them have no objections, the methodology followed does not allow us to vote in favour of them. I would also like to say a sentence in relation to something that we have seen before, as if we were reliving a deja vu of what we had experienced in 1996 with the Imia crisis, which gave the Turks the opportunity to start not talking about gray zones but about a very dangerous process on their own. And since the sole responsible for exercising foreign policy is only the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the country, and the Minister for National Defence is responsible for the defence of the country, all Greek citizens must understand, regardless of the patriotic sensitivity they have, that all these are dangerous issues to deal with and to be exercised by anyone who, whether they be the Church or the Easter Excursions who feel they are drowned by national pride and want to share Greek flags on the various islands or on the rocky islands, because instead of doing good, they create huge problems in the country. We must understand that the field of challenges, Minister, of course, only favours them, and that is why wisdom and coolness must be our only advisers in the management of our national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u109	Thank you. Now those of the parliamentary representatives want to say something about the amendments will take the floor. Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, I would like to say this, Mr Minister, that the country is going through an extremely difficult time on all issues, particularly with regard to our national issues and national security. Two Greek officers are for fifty days prisoners - hostages in Turkish prisons, we have vaccines of Greek ships, we have various and daily announcements of questioning our sovereign rights on the part of Turkey, which is our ally, unfortunately, in NATO, so we have numerous incidents that I cannot give you, at least, incidents that the Greek people know about or at least what the Greek people know and know about. Minister, we want to know - and it is an opportunity today that you are here for a formal parliamentary procedure - why the port ships have ruled out one of the rocky islands, the 'People' rocky island, and other rocky islands? The official version, the one we hear in the media, says that it has been excluded so that it does not take off the Turks. We're asking why. Is the Turks gonna go again? Everything that's happened is done. And I mean this unacceptable, the provocative incident with the symbol of our national sovereignty. We wonder where the truth is. The blockade is made by government order, so that they don't go back to the island or to other islands of Greek citizens and post the Greek flag. I would like to point out here that, if we were a serious and national sovereign state, this should be the duty of the Ministry, the Ministry of National Defence itself, to post in every way - we have seen and seen how it has happened in the past - iron flags, not to have the damage of time, flags on all Greek rock trees. Anyway, I would like you to tell me, Minister, a chance to give and end, what and how many facilities our country has provided to the gangster, really, energy - terrorist, I would say - the United States in recent years with the bombing of Syria. And, finally, what benefit does Greece, our country, from the involvement - because it is actually a matter of involving our country in this way - in ignition and in the military conflict in the Eastern Mediterranean, which can take unforeseen proportions? To point out here, above all for the Greek people to know, something that the systemic media hide and should be known, that the Turkish Foreign Minister Cavusoglu said about our national symbol and all these provocatives he said at a joint press conference with NATO Secretary-General, Mr Stoltenberg, and Mr Stoltenberg did not speak. The NATO hawk, the Secretary General, didn't talk, he didn't say a word. In fact, NATO itself and they are holding a Pontius Pilate stop in Greek-Turkish, as NATO has always done. Unfortunately, Minister, it is you, your government, who has given the right and the free as an American government - has confessed it to the Prime Minister himself on his visit to President Trump - to NATO's and the United States' hawks struggling in the Aegean Sea. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need another minute, Mr. President. In conclusion, Mr Minister, there are many questions raised, whether one is a politician or a Member and is in this Chamber whether or not he is a simple Greek voter and a taxpayer or not. Question: Are we living in a country where those who apologise the Greek flag and not those who burn it? Also, another terrible question about the future of the country: In twenty years from now, once we speak, there will be a national sovereign state of Greece, if we follow the policies of coexistence, which lead to fatality not in a new 1974, yes, the one of the junta, Karamanlis...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u111	Please, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u112	...but they lead to a new 1922? Minister, your policy is extremely dangerous, it is nationally harmful. You've got two streets. One way is to wake up, change politics, change course, turn a hundred eighty-degree turn, and the second way, the immediate, best, the national beneficial, is to leave now, resign.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u113	You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u114	It'll be the only and first offer you'll make at home.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u115	You're done. Mr Katsiki, would you like to say something about the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u116	Of course, Mr President. I would like to place myself on the amendments before the start of the procedure which you are giving the floor to the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u117	You did not say that you wanted the floor on the amendments. Here, Mr Katsiki, you have the floor on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u118	I have to put my name on the amendments. As far as the bill is concerned, we voted in favour of the committee and, in Article 108, we have no right to reinstate ourselves, except for those who are opposed and who are opposed to the reservation. I come to the amendments, which are four. I shall start with Amendment No 1552 and specific No 82, which has three provisions. The second provision concerns the disposal of funds by the personnel of the Drought Army for the construction or purchase of real estate to serve the housing needs of the military personnel, the second provision relates to the amendment of Article 11 of Law 3648/2008 and the third provision concerns the dismantling of the Military Foreign Language School of the Missile Army. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not only in favour of having an obligation as rapporteur for the Independent Greeks, but also because I would like to address my own way, saying what you will hear, and the reactions of fellow rapporteurs' representatives who voted against these amendments. Let me begin with the third provision, which refers to the abolition of the operation of the Mississippi Military School. Such regulation is necessary as a result of the establishment of the Interclinal Institute of Armed Forces Language Learning, which will now meet the needs of all branches of the Armed Forces as well as of the Security Bodies. I would like at this point to stay a little further in the first two provisions of this amendment, to which I referred earlier. I believe that through these, the leadership of the Ministry of National Defence, within a difficult confession, actively supports the personnel of the Armed Forces and at the same time ensures the future of the families of those officials who left life, whether in a period of peace or in a period of war. In particular, the expansion of military settlements to support either the officers or the civil servants or the professional soldiers and by extension of their families is a confessed practical proof of social concern on the part of the Ministry to the personnel of the Armed Forces. Part of the funds of the Mississippi staffing holdings, through this proposed arrangement, comes to the National Defence Fund, with the sole purpose either of building up or buying real estate for the purpose of meeting the housing needs of their executives and families. It should be noted that there is no charge on the state budget, whereas some of the revenues from the management of military clubs, offices and entertainment units, which belong to the General Staff, are assigned to the replacement of the funds. The Ministry of National Defence shows its social person through another arrangement, the second in order of this amendment. The proposed legislation, and with the good cooperation of the Ministry of Education, now forms part of the special categories of introduction to the higher military education institutions and the higher military schools of officers and the brothers of the deceased soldiers except for the children of the deceased soldiers in war or peace in the performance of an orderly service and because of the applicable to date. The seasons, let me say, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, urge us to show the required social sensitivity and practical solidarity with the families of the fallen soldiers, as a minimum recognition of the sacrifice of those who have fallen for their homeland. I shall now go to the second amendment, Mr President, which has a general number of 1553 and a special number 83. I would therefore like to say that it is necessary to amend the Staff Code by means of the proposed legislation, in order to allow for the establishment and operation of the Selection Board of Heads, which will select heads of directors by conducting structured interviews, taking into account the specificities of the structures and staff of each General Staff, namely, the GES, the General Secretariat and the GAEC. In particular, the provisions of Article 86 of the Staff Code of Law 3538/2007 and specified specifically for the Ministry of National Defence the composition of a five-member Chief Selection Board. This amendment therefore makes it possible to implement the procedures laid down for the selection of Heads - procedures harmonised with European law, the provisions of the Constitution and the laws of the State. Moving on to the third amendment with a general number of 1554 and a special 84, I have to say - and in accordance with the legislative improvements that the Minister has made at the beginning of plenary - that the introduction of the possibility of conducting inquiries into the internal affairs office of the Ministry of National Defence, in accordance with the proposed amendment, is, in my view, necessary. It gives me great pleasure, I must tell you, as it follows on from the bill that we voted in favour of last October. I would remind you that for the first time we have established those very security differences that ensure the proper internal functioning of the economic services of the Ministry of National Defence, while, for the first time, we have established direct cooperation with the State's prosecutors and prosecution authorities. The special weight of this service, its key role and its effectiveness will be significantly strengthened, when the officers who serve it acquire the status of an interrogatorial official. This status will give them the legislative power to carry out specific investigations, upon appeals brought by the prosecutors.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u119	What you are talking about is the amendment in it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u120	So I repeat them in my own words, proving that I agree and am voting in favour. You want to let me continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u121	Oh, no. I don't disagree that repetition is a mother of learning...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u122	There is a problem when you preside over me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u123	...but within some time limits the repetition.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u124	Aren't you interested in the rapporteur's suggestion in the bill and in the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Katsiki, we don't have any interests here. Here, we have a process that we are observing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u126	Keep it and give me the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u127	I gave you time. The right time for you who is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u128	My colleagues have placed themselves with no, I am voting against. Let me say why I am voting for them. Don't I have the right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u129	Of course you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u130	Well, give it to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u131	You've been doing this for so long.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u132	I've been doing this for a while. I'm tired of you, Mr. President. I don't know what to tell you. I shall therefore go to the fourth amendment, with which we also agree. Mr President, I do not understand why you are laughing. Excuse me, do I give you a laugh? Your attitude to the rapporteur right now is the proper belief?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u133	Why, do you want the president slurred?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u134	No, smiling always.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u135	Put an end to being smiling and contented.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u136	I do not understand your ironic attitude to your colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u137	There's no ironic mood.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u138	Can I tell you something? You have finally succeeded in giving me a personal decision not to want with you President in the Bureau to finish what I started to say. And because, in fact, this is what you are trying to do, and because it pleases you, I am doing you a favor to finish here. So let me say that we are voting in favour of the fourth amendment. And I wish to wish for the future, when I propose from the Step of the House, and I have this great honour of addressing my fellow Members not to be in the Bureau. I'm getting to make that wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u139	Was that an immediate motion of censure, to understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u140	No, it wasn't an indirect proposal. It was a wish and nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u141	After you started it, take it to the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u142	Okay, that doesn't matter. Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. We have four amendments today that the way in which they are introduced into contract sanctions is unacceptable to us. In particular, for yesterday's amendment to the forty pages that we have received, there can be no debate in this way. That is why we said that regardless of the substance - I will say two words - we cannot legitimise this practice. That is why we shall vote against them. On the substance, with regard to the amendment tabled and very quickly we have seen it, with the forty pages, you have been cutting dividends retroactively since 2017, as we see, for a benefit not huge in relation to public revenue. If I'm not mistaken, all three funds are a million euros. In any case, go to the new logic of retroactive power since 2017. I'm not actually going into it. There could be a detailed discussion. On these forty pages, six ministries - if I'm not mistaken - you sign. There could be a conversation. It cannot be done in this context. I have now seen the legislative improvement that you have brought in and given me a great impression when I saw this amendment yesterday in relation to the Home Office of the Ministry of National Defence. Of course, in defence of this amendment, one could say about the decongestion of the courts and speeding up proceedings in cases of investigation of economic crimes and corruption. How, however, will we ensure that inquiries are carried out properly by the Internal Affairs Service? Who in particular will be responsible for carrying out them? How in the end will you guarantee that the proposed regulation will not circumvent the principle of discrimination of powers, which is a fundamental principle of the rule of law, a principle that we have often told your Government that it undermines it as well as the independence of a rule of law. That is why we are extremely suspicious when we see such amendments going through the Internal Affairs Service. It is no matter what Minister this issue is. These remain regardless of any intention. I see the legislative improvement that came, which partly today as I saw it, is trying to deal with what we had seen since yesterday. The Ministry of Justice is reasonably intervening and says it should be improved. This seems to be the case with what we are legislating. That is, the legislative improvement has come now, the amendment came yesterday and comes about how these issues of economic crime and corruption will be dealt with in these critical issues, what we may go through. Here comes the legislative process, which, as you said, is essentially the intervention of the Ministry of Justice, so that the financial inspectors can carry out the preliminary examination or preliminary investigation on the basis of an appeal. I do not know if that is enough, but I think we are entering a dangerous pervert. With regard to the other amendment on the issue of the allocation of funds, an issue that has been very busy and we all know it well, I would like an answer to 'why does it all come up with a ministerial decision'? So, they couldn't have set someone up? So the part of the funds made available, the manner in which they are made available, the percentage of the proceeds from renting the property? These are very important issues to be dealt with by a ministerial decision. Or in any case tell us which direction these issues will take if you have in mind. You must commit to Parliament at the time when you bring this amendment to legislate. Because otherwise we think that Parliament is giving a white cheque, no matter who votes for it and who votes against it, to such crucial issues. Mr President, I will end by making a reference to a crucial issue and calling for national responsibility on the critical national issues. The Turkish Foreign Ministry's announcement today is a particularly serious development that requires our country's responsibility for how we speak, first and foremost, the government and then all the parties. What he is doing is actually attacking the European Union, and indeed with a mention that I see the European Union's attitude contrary to the principles and values of the European Union. Well, this attitude of the European Union - which is often not badly adopted, I mean beyond Parliament and does not go to the competent institutions - with the common borders of the European Union, with the Lisbon clause which is not being activated many times, this attitude should be extended, because these are the principles of the rule of law in Europe and not just in Europe, but I want to believe throughout the international community. This is the prisoner in relation to the announcement. The second is that it is obvious - and one of the most official lips - that Turkey is no longer talking about gray zones, but is actually talking about the Imias, about Turkish. It says attributes: "And the territorial waters and airspace are exclusively in Turkish sovereignty". I hope that it will come from a turbulence in Turkey in relation to international developments and with our country. How should we deal with this dangerous development in relation to rhetoric? With cooling, not hot reactions, with official lips being very careful. And I'm talking to you, Mr. Kammene, and the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister of the country and the Deputy Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u144	Have you heard me speak for the last 15 days?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u145	Welcome and don't talk if you have some hot reactions you've had before. That's why I'm saying it needs determination and coolness, not to play rhetoric game. I think you'll agree that we shouldn't play the rhetoric game. We want to respect international conditions in our country and within this framework to function. I think that, following Erdogan's visit, relations with Turkey have deteriorated. As a result, this visit, as we were told at the time, seems to have deteriorated the issue of Cyprus in relation to the mining and the theme of the Aegean. Since then, they've made much worse. So it became the very opposite of what we said at the time that the visit should be made to improve. In this context, therefore, I would like to say that there is a need for national understanding, for temptation on all these issues and not double and triple lines within the government. In addition, you have to answer the questions of the rapporteur for the Democratic Incorporation of Mr Loverdos on these double and triple lines to which the government is often referring. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, too. Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Christ, many years ago. It is my first presence at the Plenary Step. The Centro Association has already taken a positive stand at the last meeting of the committee responsible and for the two sanctions that we are considering today. They are both within the framework of the legitimate policy of strengthening the country's military co-operations, a policy which we, as a Union of Centres, support and welcome, as we also welcome the courage and pragmatism shown by the Radical Left MPs who have voted in favour of most of these agreements that they have ever voted for. So you are not entitled to complain in future, ladies and gentlemen, if I do not hear you publicly explain the content of the agreements made by the current government with the United States, Israel and Jordan. I have heard the rapporteur speak and repeat the word 'damage'. Why avoid using the word 'death'? Does Article 8 of the Agreement not write it several times, so that it can be considered appropriate to report it? Nor have I heard you explain to the citizens what exactly the phrase 'cooperation in other areas that will be agreed in the future'. It's in Article 3. Either way, we are consistent in our positions. Greece has only one enemy, Turkey. We have Turkey to deal with all fronts, ladies and gentlemen. As regards the tabling of the four amendments, the content of the amendment with a general number of 1552 and a special number 82 consists of three separate but equally important sections and we could, you know, protest, Minister, why you did not bring them as three different amendments. We will not, however, do so, because this time all three provisions are considered positive and necessary. The first paragraph provides for the allocation of a portion of the funds of the personnel-service holdings of the Drought Army for the construction or purchase of immovable property to serve the housing needs of the military personnel. This decision is correct and, as far as I can tell, it has the agreement of the Armed Forces' officials. The second paragraph provides for the amendment of Article 11 of Law 3684/2008 and is doing very well. Expansion of the beneficial provisions and provisions of the law and of the brothers of the deceased, those who, in other words, fell into duty on duty, are a good decision, both on moral grounds and on moral grounds. At this point I would like to make this comment. I believe that all SYRIZA Members through their hearts should be able to vote for this provision, that is to say, to explain to a few of their officials who come out publicly and say differently that raising the flag of a Greek on Greek territory is not an exercise of foreign policy, but is precisely the exercise of the right to safeguard which some people every day put their lives at risk and others, such as Baltadoros, are losing it. This is a right which we are guaranteed by these people, whose families we are legislating today. The third and final paragraph provides for the dismantling of the Mississippi Military School of Foreign Languages, as the IPGPA, the Armed Forces Language Institute, already operates. It is our central option to support the development of interchangeability as one of the most beneficial reforms that need to find fertile ground in the Greek Armed Forces. We are therefore in agreement with the third paragraph. I am going to comment on Amendment 1553 and on a special 83, supplementing the provisions of Article 86 of the Staff Code, so that it is also practically applied to the Ministry of National Defence regarding the composition of the Selection Board. We recognise the specificities of this sensitive ministry and understand the need to adapt the procedure in order to respond to these peculiarities. It is also clear that the need for us to accept Amendment No 1554 and Amendment No 84, according to which you are going to amend the provisions of paragraph 5 of Article 10 of Law No 4494 and in this way you are actually giving inquiries to the Home Office of the Ministry of National Defence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. And, as the wise people say, end the chestnuts here. One amendment which is forty pages, Mr Minister, of the last moment, which is even being debated and on a burning subject, we cannot support it, we have not had time to assess it, we will not vote on it. I am referring to the amendment with a general number of 1555 and a special number of 85, which redefines the basis for calculating the dividends paid by the Military, Navy and Air Force Equity Funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u148	Thank you. Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. We want to say from the outset that we have no reservations about union in the Armed Forces, we do not have equal distances and we support the WTO and its demands. I say that to clarify our positions. We are discussing two conventions, essentially concerning NATO, the one which has been developed, and the other concerning the expansion of cooperation with Jordan. It must be said that since 1949, with the establishment of NATO, an organisation that is the main tool for the dynamic exercise and enforcement of the political and decision-making of the imperialist forces, we and the Greek people have been well aware of its action. It has on its agenda tens of wars, with massacres, refugees, divisions of countries and a change of borders with people's blood. It is active in supporting dictatorships, such as the junta in our country. It is a war machine that works through the designs of the imperialist countries, which promotes the interests of monopolistic groups in their countries. It is a power of destabilisation, of subjugation of nationalism, of decaying and of wars, as we have said. Any new agreements which are coming here to the House, too, to modernise an organization which is hostile to the peoples, to their own progress, can only be voted down, particularly by our party. But the Greek people should see what the position of the government and the other parties in the bourgeoisie is. NATO's attitude, as expressed by NATO Secretary-General in Turkey's provocative attitude in the Aegean, is well known. The question of international conditions, such as Losan, is not "some differences", as NATO Secretary-General says. The questioning of our country's sovereign rights, as defined by international conditions, is underpinned by the imperialist forces and their organisations, such as NATO. The only contract, which we ourselves are striving to impose, is the country's exit from NATO, the abolition of the bases of death, which are used in your own agreement for all the military interventions in the Syrian region a few days ago. You are co-responsible for pain, slaughter, refugee. The return of all the missions of the country outside the border is a requirement for the Greek people to take advantage of our country's defence. They have no business outside the country. Twelve missions are taking part in our country. No soldier and soldier, then, has any work outside the country's borders. The Government participates in all dangerous developments in the region. It is a creation of the Greek Government itself. It gives land, air and water to the people's killers. We are the second country in NATO spending. This is also shameful at a time of crisis, which the people are constantly poor, and their deadlocks are increasing, where unemployment and debt have hit populace households. And with your policy, of course, you come to make life hell, through the seizures, the auctions that start, even for a debt of EUR 500 to the public. We therefore call on the people to strengthen their action against this imperialist organization, but especially these days to strengthen their action against the imperialist war that is halving in our region, against the hypocritical attitude of NATO, the European Union of equal distances, against the question of conditions, which means war, which means blood in the region. And we will be at the forefront of this race. On the subject of treaties, we have said that we are voting against. And, of course, with regard to the amendments - our rapporteur Mrs Canelles mentioned - we are voting 'at present' at three. And in the one concerning the Equity Fund of the three Chambers, and we are voting against all of this because the report by the General Accounting Office of the State is clear, it has been saved for the Ministry of several thousand euros, which means that the income of the military itself is reduced.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Teddy, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u153	Our rapporteur, Mr President, wants the floor to say something about an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u154	Here you go, Mr. Publics. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u155	As regards, Mr President, Amendment No 1555/1985, which has to do with an amendment to the provisions on the determination of dividends paid from the EBRD, Navy, Air Force and the redefinition of the basis for calculation, we are voting in favour. We are doing so because it concerns the necessary adaptation of the calculation of their benefits to the data of the new wage bill of members of the Security and Armed Forces, since they are proposals from the Equity Funds themselves of all the branches and bodies. We also agree with the proposed regulations of the General Staff of the Branches. In conclusion, Mr President, I should like to express my dissatisfaction because you repeatedly exhaust the rigour of the President-in-Office in my face. If you have anything, tell me. If I have committed something against you, it has been dropped. Secondly, you are more inconceivable today today. I give you the judgment of the colleagues and the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u156	Are you covered, Mr. Teddy?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, I will start from the wider and national, as necessary, to say that we can only call the Turkish communication absolutely unacceptable. We would like to say that national unity and national responsibility are needed in such circumstances. And with regard to this fact, which I have the honour of being a parliamentary representative, he has given and will give samples of this behaviour. We could say a lot about the government and the management of foreign policy issues, but I think that the situation is such that it imposes on us absolute national unity. I come to finance for a while, to say that we are struck by the constant repetition by the Prime Minister of the country of the promise and the net exit scenario. For us that is incomprehensible, it offends our intelligence. We would ask the Prime Minister to explain to us whether the exit is clear, which means in common sense and in the common language of exit without obligations. What, then, is the question, firstly, of the immediate reduction in duty and, secondly, the question of the immediate reduction in pensions again and again? If the Prime Minister claims that this is a matter of clean exit, it goes without saying that these are choices of his government, that he wants the government to do it, so to speak, to call it blemish. Therefore, either is valid. I also come to the subject of the amendments, in particular, and not the specific legislation. Mr President, you have, of course, been strict to some colleagues here. I will not comment on that. However, I will generally comment on the position of the Bureau - and I am explaining - and not yours personally. There is, first of all, a clear violation of Rule 87 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which the government is constantly committing as a whole, namely the three days that the Rules of Procedure require prior to the debate, so that Members can understand the amendments. A huge amendment was tabled last night, if I am well aware. Two - and worse! - there is a direct violation of a constitutional provision, Article 74 of the Constitution,'relevance'. You cannot table amendments that are irrelevant to the subject. Since this government is constantly incrementing the arbitrary nature, there is also a violation of Rules 108 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. What did they say? That in international conditions you don't make any amendments. We are trying here to dismantle everything that has been left - and I am referring to the government - by fundamentally observing the rules in the context of the parliamentary procedure. These do not honor the government. And the answer that something has happened in the past cannot be an explanation of a phenomenon that has already been overtaken. That's never happened before. I have a list in front of me - it does not make any sense to trouble colleagues and to abuse time - in international conditions that have come to debate here and are accompanied by pointless amendments. I'll just mention one, because it's the most characteristic. An international air transport agreement has come a provision for the ERT. And there's a straight list. I sincerely ask the Bureau - and the Bureau guarantees the procedure - that the Government, at the end of the day, seeks, as it can see, to respect the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. It cannot go on, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u158	Mr. Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the political events of recent weeks obviously monopolize the interest of Members of Parliament, but also of every Greek citizen. It is obvious that for a few years now there has been a huge reorganisation of the balances and zones of influence in the Mediterranean - particularly in the south-eastern Mediterranean - and that this would, of course, affect us at some point. This, of course, may be used to our advantage to take another position, as things change. What is important, however, in the face of the escalation of Turkish aggression, is to realise that in a historical perspective we know that Turkey is pursuing a policy of reviewing international treaties - it is declared by themselves - a policy of persecution already from the city's Roma pogroms in 1955 and 1963-64 and a policy of provocation and aggression, which has already come to light. Today we are experiencing an upturn, which, in many cases, has been fuelled by the thoughts and deadlocks of Turkish policy over the last few years, especially in the Middle East. However, it is not just a question of analyzing Turkey, which we must always do, and we have the information services and the analysts and the political think tank and the civilian staff. It is a question of what we are doing, what we say. I think, therefore, that at this critical moment - and I would agree with the previous spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Theocharopoulos, and with the attitude of the representative of the New Democracy, Mr Teddy - we need seriousness and responsibility. They are historical moments comparable to the crisis of the 1970s with the searches in the Aegean and their treatment by Constantine Karamanlis and Andreas Papandreou, depending on the '87 crisis, depending on the Imian crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u160	Not 1970.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u161	The end of the 1970s we had the Sismique.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u162	End of the 1970s. You mentioned Karamanlis and Papandreou...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u163	End of the 1970s. I don't mean the period of dictatorship that we had Turkish escalation there. However, the foundations of Turkish reform were laid.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u164	It's for the sake of making the correction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u165	Sure. No objections. Already Greece, in successive years, has developed diplomatic, economic, political, strategic alliances. An expression of these alliances and positive results will be expressed tomorrow, Thursday, in the European Parliament, by the resolution which will probably receive a large majority in favour of Greece, condemning the arrest and illegal detention of the two Greek soldiers. Greece has developed at heavy cost - both material and blood tax - a powerful deterrent force. At this stage, again, we must not respond to the deliberate challenges and the huge propaganda war that the Erdogan government has been conducting for years, and especially at this time, we must not fuel the war of propaganda, this mixed, hybrid war that is conducting the Erdogan regime. The Hellenic Republic will not respond to a state of military law and emergency at the moment, with tens of thousands of government politicians imprisoned, exiled and tortured and we will, of course, not retreat from national sovereign rights and from the conditions provided for by international treaties, by International Law and by the UN acquis. The best services we have to offer our country in this historic period when we are going out of the crisis and when we enter a new era of hope and advancement are not to distribute bombs, noise and cafeteria to the critical issues of national sovereignty, foreign policy, public diplomacy. The military who are responsible, the diplomats who are responsible, the civilian staff, the elected representatives of the Greek people have the responsibility, legalisation and accountability for defending every word of the Constitution, every word of the international treaties. The rest, let's leave it! And I appeal to colleagues of all political parties and also to the media to stop the feedback of Erdogan's propaganda war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u166	Well done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Home Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic and Health, the Deputy Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Economics, and the Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Economics, tabled a draft law on 17-4-2018: "Promoting the institutions of Assurance and Adoption". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. My colleague, Mr Ahmet Ilhan, is calling for a short-day absence, as he is aware that he will be missing for personal reasons outside Greece from Wednesday to Friday. Mr Ioannis Dessas asked for a short-day absence from abroad from 20 to 22 April. The allegedly requested permission from a short-day absence abroad from 19 to 24 April 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u168	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased about today's debate on this bill in this House and also on the committee, and on the occasion of it by the parties, by the parliamentary representatives of the parties and by the rapporteurs and by the majority of colleagues - I will not say all of them - because the Greek people are indeed waiting for a national position from the relevant Committee on Foreign and Defence. We may have political differences, we may have different political approaches, we may have different geopolitical philosophies, but the formation of a national position especially when the country is caused by someone who has started a hybrid war, it is necessary and the Greek people are seeking this national position to be expressed by all parties, at least in what we agree. I would therefore like to say that, as Minister of National Defence and rapporteur for the bill in this very logic, this consensus, I would like to say that if it is not satisfactory for the explanations which I will give in particular on the amendment of dividends, in which reasonable comments have been made both from Mrs Kanelli and from the side of Mr Treasury and Mr Theoharopoulos, I am prepared to withdraw it and talk about it tomorrow, tomorrow or Monday. I do not want, in any way, to have any logic that the government is here to impose something. We have to be together. In this context, Mr President, I accept, as Minister, that another day for discussion and voting on this amendment should be set if I do not convince my colleagues. Indeed, we must all take a step backwards and be able to form a common line. I am also referring to the rapporteur of the Union of Centres and Mr Theoharopoulos, as far as the suggestions they have made are concerned. I will explain why this dividend amendment has come and I will answer all my colleagues. In accordance with the new wage provisions, the level of basic salary was established in scales and classes of wages. At the same time, wage promotions and service allowance have been abolished, according to which the amount of dividends paid has so far been reached. It is therefore necessary to update the method of calculating dividends with the new wage provisions. We're already on fourth month. With regard to what Mrs Kanelli and Mr Loverdos said, the harmonisation of the provisions with the provisions of his new wage bill No 4472/2017 relates to the method of calculating dividends. This is all about the three Econ omic Funds, namely the Naval, the Army and the Air Force. For this reason and the exhibition of the four application cards of the new payroll from 1-1-2018...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u170	At dividend level, do we have a reduction or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u171	No, there's no reduction. There's another way of redistributing. That is exactly what I want to say to you that, that is, because that is what has been delayed, there is a need to legislate. It was badly brought yesterday. I recognize the mistake, and I say we go for a day longer. But it concerns staff wages and needs to be voted on quite soon. As to what you mentioned about dividends: the retention of dividends was precedented. But in the resolution of No 4472/2017 it has been abolished and for this reason the method of calculation has to be adjusted. The revenues were actually derived from the fact that from 1-1-2017 no dividends had been paid, because the method of calculating them has not been legislated. It is therefore established from 1-1-2017 that a reservation, which also existed with the previous salary, has ceased to apply on 31-12-2016 with the adoption of Law 4472/2017. They don't cut dividends, but they change the method of calculation. The dividends remain at the same height and in some places there is a small increase.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u172	The reservations will be retrospective?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u173	Reservations will be made on January 1st. Watch out, though, they were reservations that existed before...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u174	So they're reductions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u175	If you suggest that we abolish the fund and the police will come out, we will be happy to go ahead with it. The Army can't keep it. If the police are proposing to retire, let's see that as well. But it cannot be done otherwise, i.e. without dividends having revenues from the fund. You know we saved the 4 million euros. If as a former police unionist and former chief, you want to see if the Greek police are excluded, we can discuss it. It's your suggestion, and I'm glad you made it public now...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u176	Last May you had another proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u177	All right, all right, let's finish it. So here we are clear: there was a reservation. The detention by the vote of the bill was removed, but the result was that there was no revenue for the funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u178	After you drop it, we'll talk about it later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u179	The same reservation is made, which will be given to the funds, to enable the funds to go ahead, since the aim is to make use of the section of the funds, of the service farms - I am referring now to the other amendment - of the staff in housing. In other words, a officer who takes 850 euros and serves in Chios, Samos, Kos or Rhodes, is impossible to find a house in the summer with less than 500 or 600 euros. This man can't live. If he's not married and has children, he's below the limits of survival. So what do we do? This money that they found unexploited, we make it familiar with the officers, the officers, the PDOs and their families and the revenues from the reduced rent they will pay, will now go to the funds. In other words, basically, the funds that have been left unexploited in the funds, we are making them dwellings that produce revenues and are backing up the funds. We've already reached about four hundred homes. We'll be over a thousand homes. We also cover police needs. In Santorini, the Armed Forces' resort placed it - in cooperation with the municipality - for the police to stay, because they too are facing the same problems. We did the same in other areas. We are prepared, wherever we can, to serve teachers and civil servants. Where, then, we can make such homes, we can do them within the framework of the social offer of the Armed Forces and our obligation to care for our staff. But again, I say: if Parliament considers that, in the context of goodwill, we must put another day of voting to see more of the amendments, I accept to withdraw them. But they should be voted on in plenary soon enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u180	So, Minister, to clarify this for the services, what do you propose?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u181	If, in other words, one of the amendments or two of the amendments, Members consider that they wish to read them again in order to have a broader consensus in this House, to put a sitting on Friday or Monday, to have the sitting in three days...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u182	What Friday? This one on Friday?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u183	Yeah. I mean tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u184	There's got to be a bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u185	The Conference of Presidents will give us a date.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u186	The Conference of Presidents will see the date.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u187	Give the fastest date.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u188	The fastest date. We have no objection, therefore, to this House' s consent and to this message from outside, that this committee, at least, is trying to reconcile a common view with national issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u189	What are these amendments, Minister, which we withdraw?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u190	It is the amendment that refers to dividends.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u191	It is the amendment with a general number of 1555.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u192	It is Amendment No 1555.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u193	And what is the other amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u194	The other amendment is for the disposal of funds. I do not think there is any objection to it. Is there any objection to that, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u195	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u196	Oh, no. Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u197	So we are talking about Amendment No 1555.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u198	Yes, Mr. President. We have no objections. I would also like to respond to some of the points raised. I want to be perfectly clear. Mr Loverdos - I am sorry he is not here - asked to come - at the beginning of the debate raised a number of issues. I want us to be perfectly clear. The government's position is expressed by the Prime Minister of the country. The Prime Minister is responsible for formulating government policy. The Government Representative expresses the opinion of the Prime Minister. As far as foreign policy is concerned, the Foreign Minister is responsible for the foreign policy of the country. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to ask the President to read the statement from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in response to the allegations made by the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs yesterday and to ask all parties today, at this meeting, to take a national position together.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u199	The statement?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u200	Oh, no. The statement on the answer to the Imias. I think it's clear. I don't think there are any differences. You'll hear it. The Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs responds: "Greek sovereignty over the Imia is clear and undeniable, in accordance with the 1923 Lausanne Treaty, the Italian Turkish Agreements of 1932 and the Paris Treaty of 1947. While the European Union calls on Turkey to respect European law, it responds by means of a statement of provocative circumvention of its own law and reiterates a flagrant illegal position, ignoring that the legal status of the Aegean is fully guaranteed by international law.’ I think that getting this position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is a national position, through the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, at this meeting, is the formation of a national position outwards, which is a powerful weapon for our country and the respective Minister for Foreign Affairs and a message from the entire Greek people. I am making this proposal through the Bureau, Mr President. I would therefore like to say that each politician has the opportunity to make some statements, of course, depending on his position. I wondered whether the statement by the Deputy Minister of State, Mr. Kouvelis, on undeclared war in the Aegean, is a position that covers the Ministry of National Defence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u201	Why is the question pending if NATO recognizes the Treaty of Lausanne, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u202	We shouldn't get into this...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u203	If we don't get in, the announcement you gave...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u204	I'll answer you in one - one. As regards the position of Mr. Deputy, it was after the funeral of George Baltadoros, the pilot officer who fell with Miraz. He fell with Miraz in service time and for her to defend the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country, a hero in an undeclared war of peace. So this is the undeclared war that Mr Kuvelis referred to. Like the undeclared war it is what Mr Xydakis rightly described earlier, namely the undeclared war, the hybrid war, the psychological war, to which we must not give in, ladies and gentlemen. The psychological war should not create fear among the Greeks. The Greeks and the Greek people have nothing to fear. We are a safe country, we are a strong country that comes out of an economic crisis, with the different interpretations that each party gives to this exit from the economic crisis. However, the Greek family has nothing to fear. We move to a tourist season and we have a safe country that neither Greek nor tourists are in danger. This war is taking place to hurt the country. In this war we should be particularly careful. It is not a Turkish sirial that the various news flows through a number of suspects or non- blogs, where many times well-meaning I will say - I do not believe that everyone is well-meaning, we know what is going on - is being transferred as real news through the channels of the first line false scenarios that have never existed. I'll remind you of scenarios in the past about helicopters in Imia and so on. They never existed. Because they were called several times on the subject of the flag, I will say this: The oath given by the officers and the soldiers and all the Greeks that we give when we are present is to keep the flags up to the last ring of our blood. This is what the Greek Army is doing and this is what Greek border guards and Greek citizens do. However, the one who gets a flag on the back and goes to place it somewhere, should defend it or come to the Army and say, "I decided today, which is Easter, with two friends of mine, to put a flag there, know it, inform you and invite you to defend it." And let us both give them two G-3, so that they come to the ethnic prison to defend it themselves. Because, of course, on every Greek island, we can put a flag, but the point is that the flag is a symbol and the visibility of the flag is a strong act of national sovereignty. So when someone takes the flag and places it somewhere, they must ensure that he himself - with informed Armed Forces - defends it with his blood until the end. You can't take a boat and say, "You know what, now that it's Easter and I'm a ride, I'm putting a flag on this rock island in it and let's run after the Fortress penitentiary defend it." We defend it, of course, and we will defend whatever flag it is. However, the promotion of national sovereignty through the symbol of national sovereignty, the flag, is also a responsible act. And it should be possible then to be able to support it. At this point I will tell you that the planned flags, such as the design, where they have to come in, have entered and we defend them with all our powers, army, nation and citizens. So there is no question of this. The islands and their national sovereignty are described by international treaties and the Treaty of Lausanne is an international treaty acceptable and binding to us...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u205	And for NATO.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u206	And, of course, both for NATO and, of course, for Turkey. And Turkey has signed the Treaty of Lausanne. For both the European Union and all international organisations and the United Nations Organization, where, in this context, Greece, with its legality, ladies and gentlemen, and by formulating the national line, can gain its fairness when it is united. As far as the issue of the two soldiers is concerned, because I have heard too much, I would like to say that the issue of the two officers, the officer and the officer in prison in Turkey, is an issue that has caused several debates, because I mentioned them as "hosts" or because they were not hostages, but they were under the process of investigating justice. I wish I'd been disproved. I mentioned them at the first moment as 'hosts', because Turkey, as Mr Xydakis said earlier, is a country that has not only taken hostage to the two Greek officers without even addressing the charges. He has an American citizen, has a pastor Branson, who is sentenced to life by Erdogan's decree, who provided for the exchange of a suspected prisoner or convicted with another abroad, and was proposed to the United States for the exchange of pastor Branson with Gulen. The Greek Parliament's decision yesterday, which I have to say, has come from all political formations, that is, with the work of all the Greek parties - I will say all parties - is of particular importance, because that is precisely why it demonstrates the violation of international law, the continuing illegal detention of two officers, one officer and one officer, who are Greek officials and officers, who are Europeans. Here I would like to say that it is not by chance that the passages to Evros, because we must all stress that these two officers of the Armed Forces at the time of duty were patrolling the Greek border, but also at the European border, precisely on this phenomenon, of illegal entry into the country following traffickers' actions, because traffickers were the ones who were looking to find the time they were arrested. And these are NATO officials, and of course NATO is responsible. And, of course, no one can satisfy the image of NATO Secretary-General, Mr Stoltenberg, that he listens fundamentally to the challenges on the part of the Turkish official. And it is not a bilateral matter that two executives of the Armed Forces of Greece, Europe and NATO should be detained. It is international, it is a matter of law, it is a matter of human rights, of all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u207	Stoltenberg said more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u208	That's exactly what I said. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that with the proposal, which I have made for the later debate on the amendment, I ask the President to draw up this joint declaration of support for the national position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to invite you, ladies and gentlemen, at any time - either alone as parties or as the committee's plenary session - I need to assure you that the Ministry of National Defence is open to everyone. Some say I'm missing. I would like to say this: it is not the role of the Defence Minister to give interviews and I will not give interviews. I will try, in handling at sensitive times, to leave the floor to those who must have him and the Ministry of National Defence to do his duty, having the political oversight of the Armed Forces, which I can assure you are doing their duty, as provided for in the Constitution and the oath, which they have given to the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u210	What do you want, Mr. Katatotis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u211	The Minister asked the House to take a stand on the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u212	For this communication, for its content.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u213	This, of course, is not predictable...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u214	Don't you think it's nationally self-evident?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u215	Just that phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u216	For the contents of the announcement, I say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u217	Say the phrase, 'cause we're gonna have a problem. It is not Parliament's procedure to formalise and vote for statements by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u219	Not all of them together. Mr. Theocharopoulos, Mr. Katsotis has asked for the floor first. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u220	I would therefore say that what the Minister for National Defence is asking for is not provided for in the procedure. However, we must say that the JRC has a clear position on the issue of our borders, our sovereign rights, the treaties establishing the borders, the Lausanne Treaty, the Paris Treaty of 1947, which the Dodecanese passed from Italy to Greece. So, all this, the JRC has repeatedly exposed it...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u221	Just like you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u222	But from this point of view, he criticises Turkey's aggression. They're not belts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u223	Mr Katsotis, let me say something. The Minister does not ask for a consensus on the whole context, but rather for the content of this communication. If you do not want it, say 'we do not agree'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u224	Mr. President, please. I say that this is not the procedure and we tell you the clear position of the JRC, what we have repeated many times. Any questioning of the conditions means war, it means blood. So we insist on what is at our borders, such as the Paris Treaty of 1947, but also on other conditions, such as those that crossed the Dodecanese in Greece. That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second, for a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u226	Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u227	This concerns the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. In order not to produce a worse result than we probably wanted to provoke, I imagine. I think that the positions of all the parliamentary representatives were clear in a context. I believe, of course, that this can be discussed in the Committee on Foreign and Defence. It is a matter for the Bureau of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security at a later stage and it is not for Parliament's plenary. The position here is enough for all parties' representatives, which I think are clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u228	Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u229	Because the moments are critical and sensitive, because they must not remain 'grey' zones and between us on these issues, I think it is self-evident. It may not be provided by the procedure in which this House operates, which we are now in the process, but it goes without saying that all the parties, with no exceptions, are saying that respect for Greece for the Treaty of Lausanne and Paris has closed down these cases. There are no dubious, 'grey' zones in the Aegean Sea for us, and that is what we all agree on. Of course, we support the view expressed by the government this morning following the unacceptable announcement by the Turkish Foreign Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u231	I think that the passage from the communication, read by the Minister, is extremely simple, concrete, and I do not think there is any democratic political force in this Chamber that does not share it. It speaks precisely of the international treaties and international law, which shaped the national sovereignty and the face of Greece today, of today's Europe and of the Mediterranean. I think everyone, weak and unanimous...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u232	We solved it and you're going to lose it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u233	Mr President, I ask for the floor for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u234	I respect anyone's position, no matter what. And I thought the announcement contained the self-evident.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u235	Mr President, I ask for the floor for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u236	The self-evident thing, however, on the basis of what has been said by all the representatives of the parties here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u237	Mr President, our Party, you know very well that it has strongly criticised the reassurance that the government has cultivated to the Greek people, as regards the role of NATO and the European Union, that these are protectors of our borders.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u238	That does not include the announcement, Mr Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u239	Listen, I say that even today this reassurance by you is being promoted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u240	By means of this announcement?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u241	It has been strongly criticised. That is why we say that there is no protection from these agencies. You put the protection of our borders and the conditions in these agencies. It's not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u242	Mr Kattotis, I hear it and respect it, but the announcement is not about such things. Anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, may I say something to remove the impressions?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u244	It's bad what you're doing now. You make it worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u245	Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u246	What impressions?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u247	Impressions of disagreements or agreements on texts of either existing or non-existent. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u248	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u249	The spirit of the declaration, which is that no one allows anyone to question the Treaty of Lausanne and our borders, can find us all in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u250	She doesn't even talk about it, Mrs. Canelley. He's talking about this particular matter of the Imian people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u251	Listen to me, please too. The unfortunate - and the man took it back - statement by the Minister that we are consenting to the wording, as it stands, of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is like making us take the flag, let us go put it on the self-evident side.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u252	I didn't say that. You're perverting that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u253	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u254	You realize you're asking a parliament to say "good, what good is the National Single Communication of the Ministry...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u255	Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u256	Do not confuse the spirit with the text.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u257	Mrs Kanelli, if you would like a word, not clarifying what you say, but in general a phrase on the part of the Bureau, does what Turkey does with this in order to promote its election plans. There is no need to facilitate them deliberately or unintentionally.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u258	That's what we say. You can be sure that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u259	But this is not about the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u260	Listen, the communication speaks of the European Union. The European Union is not at all sure that it does not help Turkey.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u261	Where does he mention it in that village?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u262	Others. That is your position, but the statement from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has nothing to do with what we are discussing now. Anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Military Cooperation Agreement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Hasimite Kingdom of Jordan and other provisions". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u263	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u266	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u267	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u268	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u271	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Military Cooperation Agreement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Hasimite Kingdom of Jordan and other provisions" was accepted in the first place by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u275	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u276	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u280	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept the amendment under the general number 1552 and a special number 82 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u281	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u282	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u283	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u284	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u285	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u286	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u288	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u289	Therefore, Amendment No 1552, and a special 82, was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1553 and a special number 83 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u290	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u291	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u292	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u293	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u294	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u297	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u298	So the amendment under general number 1553 and a special 83 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept Amendment No 1554 and specific No 84, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u300	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u301	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u302	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u303	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u304	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u306	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u307	The amendment, as amended by the Minister, was therefore approved by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u308	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u311	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u312	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u316	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Military Cooperation Agreement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Hasimite Kingdom of Jordan and other provisions" was accepted in principle and on articles. We are entering the vote of the bill and the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u318	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u320	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u321	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u325	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Following the Military Cooperation Agreement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Hasimite Kingdom of Jordan and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u326	We are voting in favour of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Repeal of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of National Defence of Canada and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia and the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ministry of Defence of Italian Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania and the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway and the Minister of Defence of the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of Romania and the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Greece as well as well as well-known State of the Republic and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Iceland and the Republic of the Republic of Israel and the Republic of Israel and the Republic of the Republic of Israel and the Republic of the Republic of Israel and the Republic of Development and the Republic of Israel Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u327	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u330	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u331	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u335	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of National Defence of Canada and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia and the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway and the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway and the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland and of the Ministry of Defence of National Defence of Romania and the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of Slovakia and the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Iceland and the Ministry of National Defence in the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Republic of the State of the Republic of Israel and of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Israel and the Ministry of the Ministry of Israel’ shallot­n Defence in relation to the States (Sts, as well­n Defence) in relation to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Ministry of the Republic of the Republic and the Hellenic Republic of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Defence in relationn Defence in relationn Defence in relationn Defence and the Republic of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of the Republic of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Defence and the Republic of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of State for Foreign Affairs and the Republic of State for Foreign Affairs and the Republic of Defence and of the Republic of State of the Republic of the Republic of Administration
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u336	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u337	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-18-S1-commons.u338	With the consent of the House at 12.35' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 19 April 2018 at 9.30' on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate; and (b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Preparation of the Agreement between the Competent Authority of the Hellenic Republic and the United States of America on the Exchange of Reports by Country and Implementing Provisions".
