ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 9-5-2018, the minutes of its PRID meeting, Wednesday 9 May 2018 (in the evening), with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: "Recommendation of the Refreshment Body of the city of Athens and other provisions".]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Friday 11 May 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1610/7-5-2018 by Mr Christos Boukokouros to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The burning of alternative fuels by the cement industry "HERAKLIS SA" in Volos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1591/4-5-2018 topical question by PASOK MEP - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Bargiotas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The establishment of a contributory fee for large hydroelectric power stations". 3. The 1584/2-5-2018 topical question by Congressman I Thessaloniki of the Association of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'The reversal of a truck in Halkidiki'. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1611/7-5-2018 by MP Corinth of New Democracy Mr Christou Dimas to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: ‘Absorbance of EDF resources 2014-2020’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1589/3-5-2018 topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on "Control placement of greenhouses and processing plant for the processing and production of finished medicinal cannabis products". 3. The 1587/2-5-2018 topical question by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister for Migration Policy, on "The Need for a radical review of the policy of hotspots". 4. Under No 1528/19-4-2018, a topical question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the subject: "The urgent need to take administrative and legislative measures to speed up the examination of asylum applications, following the adoption of the 805/2018 decision of the S.H.I.". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP II of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development about the intentions of the US Government to impose import duties and the effect of the measure on Greek exports. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Today three topical questions will be discussed, and for several reasons the following will not be discussed: The ninth under No. 1573-27-2018 topical question of the Second Cycle of the Parliamentary Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR. Michael Jeleighis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Unavailable quantities of potatoes in the communities of Mounts and Upper North Law of Serres", will not be discussed due to the absence of the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food Mr.Kokalis. The twelfth under No. 1551/24-2018 topical question by Hercules Irakliou of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Measures and actions to deal with water shortages - drought" will not be discussed due to the absence of the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food Mr.Kosokalis. The fifteenth third under number 1529/19-4-2018 topical question of the second question of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Sachinidis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “Continue to remain unpaid, the customs producers will not be discussed due to the absence of the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr.Kingdom Kokkalis. The second question with No 1294-10-2017 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Rodopi of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Aid for tobacco growers in Thrace', will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr.Kosokalis. The third question with number 2464/10-1-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Let the funding for the diversion of the Platy River for the reinforcement of a Fantaine dam is not debated due to the absence of the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food Mr.Koskalis. The fourth under number 1607/7-5-2018, top-stage question by the Member of Parliament, Eitolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "To compensate directly the victims of the catastrophic floods in the Prefecture of Etolokarnania", will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The Ministry responsible is the Ministry of Rural Development and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. The eighth Question No 1600/5-5-2018 by Independent Member of the Achaias Parliamentary Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The CYTAs of Achaias drown the other people..." will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The Department responsible is the Ministry of Environment and Energy. The second, with number 1609/7-5-2018, timely question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Maximos Charakopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Let us protest and despair residents of the Exarchates", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the relevant Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Toska on grounds of misguided obligations. The third, with No. 1615/8-5-2018, topical question of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Eve Christophilopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Nine tolerance of the residents of the Exarchites in the inadequacy of a dangerous situation in the region", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Toska. The third, with number 1586/2-5-2018, timely question for the first cycle of the MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “payment of compensation from the ELGA for the damages from the quarantine of November 2017”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr.Apostolos on the grounds of irresponsible obligations. The second question under number 1608/7-5-2018 in the second cycle of the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy, Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "First known crisis in Greek ovine and caprine animals", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr.Apostolos on the grounds of unsuccessful obligations. The first question with number 4699/26-2018 of the circle of petitions and questions by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR. Michael Jeleighis to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Emergency livestock, will not be discussed because of the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Apostleo, on grounds of misguided obligations. The fifth question under number 1620/8-5-2018 of the Second Cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the needs of museums and archaeological sites, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Lydias Konordos, on the grounds of the meeting with its Cypriot counterpart. The fourteenth under number 1149/26-2-2018 topical question by MP II of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Knowledge from a para-state website became the unprecedented attack on the A.T. Cesarean', it will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr Toska, on the grounds that it is 'not discussed'. Fifteenth, No. 1151/26-2-2018, topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Questions regarding the case of an agent on the basis of the revelations of P. Kammenos", will not be discussed because of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr. Toska, on the grounds that "it is not discussed". The first, with number 1604/7-5-2018, topical question by MP II Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Xydakis to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Reiterate original regulation n.3852/2010", will not be discussed on the grounds that the Minister of Home Affairs Mr. Skourletis invokes a coma. The tenth under No. 1554/24-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on the building for housing of the Department of National Roads, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Toska on the grounds that "it is not discussed". Elected under No. 1555/25-2018 a topical question by the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: “Low-up loans from the Turkish bank of Ziraat to the tobacco producers of Thrace”, are not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Kotzias on the grounds of the workload. The seventh question, No. 1614/7-5-2018, topical question by MP II, the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Emergency need to promote the recognition of the genocide of the Greeks of the Pontos", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Amanatidis, on the grounds of the workload. Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting the debate with the fourth under number 1619/8-5-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Things of third-party borrowers of the OEC". The current question will be answered by the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Ephi Ahtsoglou. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with Law 3454/2006, the possibility of increasing a housing loan for first residence in the third blocks from EUR 110,000 to EUR 160,000 was granted. In 2007 and 2008 several families applied for first home loans, which were approved after almost two years. The monthly instalment at the time for the repayment of the loan was fixed at EUR 550. As a result of the overturns in wages, industrial relations, unemployment, etc., this amount is unable to pay it back. The Tritecna Association has sent memos to the Ministry of Labour requesting a loan haircut and a reduction in the monthly repayment instalment. By Ministerial Decision, the Government proceeded with repayment arrangements for borrowers from their own funds. The Tritecians Association, however, denounces that by this arrangement, in fact, more than half of the beneficiaries are flying out, because it requires at the date of application for regulation, that all three children are protected. They note that the loan with the corresponding amount has been granted after verification of the condition of the three children protected. The adulthood of children does not mean that the beneficiary has ceased to be a third party and cannot be made more difficult than the one he already is. The questions, Madam Minister, are: If the government as a whole intends to go further than protection and facilitation of the third borrowers of the OEC. If it intends to abolish from the recent regulation the requirement that all three children be protected during the period in which the application is to be made, because it leaves out many third-party beneficiaries in particular as their children have grown older. We are waiting for your answer to these questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u3	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u4	Mr Katsotis, the initiatives we have taken for the workplace are, I think, a characteristic case of how the Ministry of Labour implements the commitment we have made to citizens to improve their everyday lives even within the programme of budgetary adjustment. We have taken very important initiatives for both the borrowers of the abolished Labour Housing Organization and for the residents of the same organisation. Especially for the settlements, you will allow me to say two words, because it is of great importance, to know what arrangements these are. They are horizontal regulations of enormous benefit in relation to the repayment of their debt. Especially for the residents of the abolished Labour Housing Organization, the arrangements came, after a broad consultation in forty-five cities, to forty-five gatherings of residentials and provide for an increase in the number of instalments and interest haircuts, special measures for the unemployed and vulnerable groups and, most importantly, a new single price for the property to the dwellings. The new single concession price was set at EUR 304 per square metre. This is a shocking reduction in relation to the average price before. Before the concession price for the property moved from 780 to 1,000 euros the square meter. One understands that in order for a debtor of the agency to be able to repay his debt and to be the owner of his home, for a house of 100 square meters, he would have to pay from EUR 78 000 to EUR 100,000 and at the moment at the new single price he will have to pay about EUR 30 000. In addition to this very low concession price, a 20% discount is applied to three-tiers, pensioners, people with disabilities, people with widowhood. Therefore, for a third party, for a multitude the concession price is EUR 240 per square metre. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] You will give me some time to say a few things about borrowers now, because the second charge is that of those who received the same loans from the abolished residence agency. There we have made with the ministerial decision I made a few months ago in favourable horizontal arrangements, which provide for briefly the following: if anyone has a debt of up to EUR 6 000, his debt is deleted. If it has paid 60% of its debt, its outstanding debt shall be written off, interest on late payment shall be derecognised and interest on late payment or capital shall be deducted from the initial amount of the debt. In what I have already said, take into account the fact that a 15% reduction is applied horizontally to the initial amount and an additional 10% discount for the three-tiers. So in the amount remaining from 15% of the discount, we are applying an additional 10% discount. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It is clear that these are extremely favourable horizontal arrangements, which favour more than eighty thousand borrowers. Especially now for third parties, the status of three-twelfths which leads the law - on which the relevant ministerial decisions are adopted - to make favorable arrangements, is that people are cared for by the three children who are not minor. It is not only the law, it says, that they have not completed the twenty-third year of their age, or that if they attend the university one more, if they fulfil their military obligations, it is the twenty-fifth year of their age. The law provides for the special treatment of these families, because parents are financially burdened with their care. I do not think it would be right to take care of those who have stopped looking after the three children, with those who actually have the financial burden on their care. In this sense, it is obviously the third question at the moment when special rules are being requested and, in our opinion, it is well judged at that time. In any case, I cannot, as you can see, with a ministerial decision to overthrow the three-tier definition, as it has been given by the law on all cases and not just by the agency's loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u5	Please, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u6	Madam Minister, I have in mind the ministerial decisions and that is why I have insisted on this issue in the third quarter, which does not lose its status. When the third party applied to the OEC to get the loan, the decision was approved because it was a third party. Now that the government is again making a ministerial decision and is examining the situation of borrowers as a whole, they are excluded, because the members, the children, are no longer protected. He has not ceased to be a third party, he has not stopped the burden, if you want he took it, when he made the application to get the loan of 160,000 out of 110,000, picking it up now under much more difficult conditions. His children may be over twenty-three, but they may be unemployed, they may be underemployed, they may be flexible working relationships, they may be unemployed and so on. So he has not lost the status of third party, as far as the burden he has to bear from that status, when he had applied for the loan of EUR 160,000 in order to be able to get the first home. So it is unfair for those who, when they apply, do not have the three children protected, that is to say, under twenty-three or, if they are in studies, as you have said, up to twenty-five. It is unfair for them not to have, if you like, the arrangements for vulnerable groups in your ministerial decision. I believe that the Ministry can and must change this in order to be able to justify these third-party families, which in this capacity have appealed to the OEC when they appealed in 2007 and 2008, and were entitled to this loan. That is what we want. We are aware of the decision you have made for both resident and borrowers. Of course it is an opportunity for you to put forward this policy that you have pursued for this part of the Greek people of workers. However, on this third issue, we would really like you to tell us if you intend to change this decision so that those who, in fact, are third parties but their children have exceeded the age limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u7	Here, Mrs Ahchioglu, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u8	I have mentioned the arrangements as a whole, because I think that when anyone hears them and is a borrower, he understands that there is no way that it does not fall to some or more of these favourable arrangements I have mentioned. It's a horizontal character. In this sense, even someone who is a third party, but at the moment his children are not protected children, it is certain that it falls under one of the other favourable arrangements that I mentioned. If he is unemployed, for example, as you mentioned, or has such difficulties again there will be some other regulation, which adds to him a favourable treatment in addition to the existing ones. I spoke, for example, about debt haircuts and interest haircuts applied to everyone, a 15% discount on the amount of debt applicable to all and additional discounts if they have specific characteristics. So if this person is unemployed, he will also have an additional discount. The reason I am saying this is because on the basis of the information we have, eighty thousand borrowers benefit from this arrangement. In more than forty-nine thousand debtors deleted the debt and thirty-two thousand debtors see their monthly instalment falling from 55% to 70%. So it is obvious that these are regulations, of which they will certainly benefit the people you are referring to. In any case, you will allow me to reexamine it. Our image, based on the evidence we have, is not that, that is, the image of the people who are third-party and who no longer have the three protected children in their custody, is not under their protection. We have the impression that almost all of the debtors are particularly favoured by the haircut of their debt, by the impairment of interest or by the repayment periods. You will allow me to rethink this point and see if we can make any more specific arrangements. However, I think that, as a whole, these are extremely favourable regulations which give these people the opportunity to end once and for all with this debt and the problem they have been burdening them for years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u9	Thank you. Next is the first with number 1603/7-5-2018, a top-stage question from the MP Carditsa Coalition of the Radical Left Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the upgrading of the Centre for Animal Genetic Resources Carditsa. Here, Mrs Katsavria, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in Karditsa, my law is based in the Center for Animal Genetic Resources, which is owned by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. The Center for Animal Genetic Resources was created with high standards and modern laboratory equipment systems. This is the activity of the semen control, evaluation and management laboratories and of the animal paternity laboratory. The center is the first in Greece to implement the Graduate Control of Caravan Rams in collaboration with the Reproduction and Technical Insemination Station of the Department of Veterinary Carditsa. The Centre for Animal Genetic Resources shall implement the pilot programme for the genetic improvement and resolution of caracid-borne sheep. Karaguuniko sheep is an indigenous Greek breed of productive animal that exists in the area of Karditsa and Western Thessaly and can give large amounts of milk and good quality. The centre, which aims to improve genetic material for sheep production, could achieve greater genetic progress by increasing the accuracy of the choice of breeding animals by applying insemination technique to all core breeding animals. In order to support sheep production and the production of identified livestock products, the centre could increase the population of sheep in order to increase the yields of identified Greek breed milk and to save resources. Unfortunately, however, the Center for Animal Genetic Resources is down operating, its infrastructure and equipment are untapped and lacking in specialized human scientific and research resources and resources. Minister, the development strategy for the country is the development of the primary sector by identifying dynamic themes or sectors. Farming is a dynamic sector and supports the country's rural economy, representing a quarter of the gross value of agricultural production, providing jobs to thousands of families of mountainous and disadvantaged areas. In the Region of Thessaly, the largest percentage of feta is produced in Greece and large quantities of local milk must be used. In addition, I would like to stress that both my region and the country needs a new generation of trained farmers that can integrate new technologies and innovation into cooperation-oriented production and the creation of participatory schemes. There is a strong interest in cooperatives from farmers who want to work with the Center for Animal Genetic Resources, as well as the University of Thessaly. So I ask you what your Ministry intends to do and what measures are you going to take to upgrade and staff the Centre for Animal Genetic Resources Carditsa, so that, on the one hand, it can provide know-how and training and, on the other, connect research to production by integrating innovation with obvious benefits for the local economy. Also, how can there be cooperation and interaction of the Center for Animal Genetic Resources Carditsa with the University of Thessaly for the public benefit and how you are considering taking advantage of this body to develop a strategy and its laboratories to identify and certify the most important indigenous breed of Thessaly sheep that is the caraguan sheep.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Katsavria. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, eighteen students and students and two educational attendants from the Livadia Municipal School of Chios. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to address the students who are following us to say that the seats are empty, because so-called parliamentary control is being carried out today. Members are coming to ask the Ministers responsible for matters concerning their region or, in general, for dialogue. Today we have three questions, but we could have double or three times. The Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, my colleague, your question is very critical, because, as we have repeatedly stated all the staff of the Ministry of Rural Development, the strategic objective for us is precisely the one you have set, to invest in quality, to invest in know-how, to invest in innovation. In other words, to highlight the quality characteristics of the Greek product and not to compete with the low-quality products offered by competing countries. We will therefore invest in quality and with this aim and the Genetic Improvement Centre in Karditsa is a centre very important. It's a strategic point. There are five such centres in Greece. At the moment, I will tell you very briefly at the time limit what those points we have invested are at the moment. The first is measure 10.2.1 concerning genetic resources in livestock farming. It is the measure that has been specifically adopted for Carditsa, has been announced in January and with the decision of our Secretary-General, Mr Antonoglou, on November 17, 2017, we have the specific action in 10.2.1, the integration of the agricultural co-operative of the first co-response of the Carditsa suburban sheep. At the moment, that is to say, we have a measure. There is also a second important issue to which the centre can now be assisted with percentages. Let me make it clear that the measures of the ESDP, the Rural Development Programme do not allow direct public bodies to be strengthened, but there is measure 16 for cooperation, through which operational groups may also be formed. Here it talks about the launching of new cooperation on agriculture, livestock, as well as NGOs and natural environmental organisations. The centre, therefore, can assist in such a partnership. But the most important thing is that we started, together with the Ministry of Education and the Secretariat for Research and Technology, making exactly what you said. Instead of every centre fighting alone, we are trying to build interdisciplinary cells from universities, research centres and producers, precisely to promote these measures. As far as the centre's headquarters are concerned, I would like to say that the centre is currently employing ten employees. The last call was in 2009, a point of time because it is precisely the time when Greece enters the memoirs. You know, from there on, the difficulty is given. I too recognise your question that in the centre - and I see it - there is an expert on insemination. At the moment, I think with selective partnerships, we can fill these gaps and then, after August, we can discuss this in order to make a notice for strengthening all centres and, of course, for Karditsa's centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Katsavria, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your answer. As I mentioned in my prototype, the pilot project for genetic improvement and resolution of sheep is currently being carried out at the Carditsa Animal Genetic Resources Centre in collaboration with the Agricultural Cooperative of Caracian Sheep, which has fifty members, which have five thousand animals. But the annual project funding - you said it too - is certainly not satisfactory if we want to promote domestic sheep breeds in our country and increase their productivity, thus creating a chain of added value for the development of the region. For the integrated implementation of the project and its extension and for the Chios breed sheep, it is necessary to upgrade the centre’s infrastructure with the full functioning of the Ram control post, including the ram control, evaluation, sperm management and paternity control laboratories, which are the tools for the implementation of modern breeding techniques. This will mean increasing milk production, as will increase feta and fodder products from indigenous breeds, ensuring the uniqueness of the certified livestock product within international competitiveness. For this upgrade, the Centre for Animal Genetic Resources Carditsa needs to be strengthened with specialized human resources - and we hope that after August, as you said, we will be able to solve this problem - and with the necessary logistics and upgrading of existing spaces, which need repair and modernisation. Cooperatives and other collectives, as well as small and medium-sized enterprises involved in the fields of livestock and food, want and seek cooperation with the Centre for Animal Genetic Resources, as well as with the University of Thessaly. In this way we create opportunities to develop new and innovative entrepreneurship, adapted to the specificity of the region, incorporating new technologies into animal breeding and improvement, as well as innovation in the production and processing of their products. This is how new jobs are being developed, as well as training poles with the university and farmers' bodies looking for training programmes. The new architecture of the University of Thessaly sets as a goal the strengthening of multidisciplinary research and the creation of strong scientific poles and synergies between university departments and research centres. Modernisation of the Centre for Animal Genetic Resources in cooperation and interaction with the new academic bodies and laboratories in the region may create a collaborative formation with independent, complementary and competitive bodies active in the Karaguun sheep in the specific geographical area of Thessaly. Academic bodies and members of this collaborative group could have as their role the provision of scientific technical support, with a view to disseminating specific technology on the management of animal genetic resources, modernising by adopting new technologies in animal reproduction and developing new economic activities through radical technological renewal. Minister, the Center for Animal Genetic Resources Carditsa is a ready-to-hand tool in the state. What I am asking is that we immediately meet the needs identified, by modernising its spaces and equipment, but also by ensuring the necessary skilled human resources for its proper and efficient operation and upgrading the quality of its services. The cooperation and interaction of the Centre for Animal Genetic Resources and the sections of the University of Thessaly will incorporate innovation in the production, identification and certification of the Centre for Animal Genetic Resources in order to function as a standard centre and provide practical training to students of the academic bodies of the region in the field in the genetic improvement of animals and in the processing or marketing of livestock products, to provide technical support to the benefiting breeders in matters of breeding, to systematically inform recipients with conferences, participation in zootechnical exhibitions and conferences. In conclusion, I would like to add that this is a great opportunity for our region, upgrading the Center for Animal Genetic Resources, to strengthen local and regional development for the benefit of the economy of Carditsa, Thessaly and the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u15	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u16	I take this opportunity from your timely question to clarify something that I will repeat all the time. In Greece, the memorials, as well as before, were cultivated an unprecedented mythology, a civil war between public administration and the private sector, especially among producers and small and medium-sized ones. So the impression has been made in social classes that some special classes are to blame for the crisis at the expense of others. In my humble view - and I have repeated many times - corruption in the Greek state is a Greek phenomenon, which has had specific political responsibilities from a political regime which has boasted the country, but which has also permeated the private and public sectors. In this sense, this thing that is happening in Greece is not happening in other European countries, and I see it every day with producers calling for a strong, healthy, efficient state, calling for an effective public. This effective public service we are obliged to provide them with it. So right now I share your view and I undertake to make a suggestion to the Minister so that we can see, through mobility, whether we can strengthen the centre, because for us, the general improvements are a strategic priority. In fact, it's the first strategic priority. From there on, I will emphasise something that is very important. What is missing from Greek research and innovation is precisely the cooperation you have mentioned. In other words, we currently have very considerable research and very considerable potential, which simply does not cooperate. That is precisely what - and I repeat - we have tried to do with Mr Fotakis. We have tried, in other words, to debate vice versa what the priorities set by our producers are, what those needs are. As you quite rightly said, it is the caraguan and I can mention other important national products, it is also the ionic, it is the caloric, it is other races. Conversely, instead of at the moment our researchers are working on what we have found a funding, the need to produce and to ask them - to order them, I would say, to make the invitation, namely - which universities want to help together, together, interdisciplinaryly in such an effort. In this sense, the centre, whether through mobility or through some programmes, as I said, with the cooperation of officials who will be hired by the cooperatives and who will be exploited by the programme, or, anyway, when we get out of this story, by this nightmare of memoranda, by a notice at last to renew our scientific potential, should be able to make our centres more operational. Cooperation for me is the key, and that's where the solution will be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. We continue with the sixth question under number 1621/8-5-2018 of the F Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Healthy and safety for workers and traders in the buildings of EFKA". Here, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, as you said before, the question concerns the problem of the lack of cleaning staff, which has, of course, emerged since the beginning of the year in the buildings of the ECA. On the occasion of this problem, of course, we must raise health and safety issues, of course, both for the workers in the fund, the structures of the fund in Greece and not just here in Athens, as well as for the workers themselves. Of course, this problem takes greater proportions if we consider that, in the services or in parallel with the services of the ECA, in the buildings that are being exploited, housed or housed respectively, the disability certification centres or the ECAO doctorates. Against this backdrop now is the administration of the EFKA, which obliges the oligorithm indeed to cover the needs of many buildings, thousands of square meters, in terms of working conditions that neutralize and exhaustive, by intensify their work in general. At the same time, workers are being moved within the same day from service to service, without the necessary and necessary written travel orders and, of course, without covering travel costs. In fact, in view of this situation, workers were on the way in the previous period claiming from the Ministry, from the fund, from the EKKA, and specifically from the administration of the EKKA, to take some measures, and they are being placed on the one hand in the recruitment of staff meeting the body's cleanliness needs and therefore denounced their unacceptable situation and treated by the administration of the EKKA with regard to what I said. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Therefore, Mr President, the questions raised are when and whether there will be full-time recruitment of permanent cleanliness staff to cover, of course, cleanliness needs on a permanent basis, and, secondly, what measures will be taken to ensure that cleanliness workers do not accept the arbitrary nature of the administration and do not have to work with these unacceptable conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u19	Thank the Vice-President. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Lambroulis, it was the contractors who provided cleanliness services in general to the public, and that was a situation that our Government wanted not to maintain. By Law No.4325/2015 we extended the contracts up to that time or ratified the employment of workers who were in a dispute - the well-known problem of the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance and other units - in order to have legal employment with individual contracts of employment. We turned the existing works contracts at the time with cleaning contractors into individual contracts, either individual work or individual persons who were involved in cleaning in bodies. Subsequently, L.4384 provided for the possibility of concluding individual cleaning contracts or work with persons employed in this work. By 31 December 2017, their employment was projected. And in time with Law 4506/2017, which was passed on 12 December, we provided for a better extended period of time for cleanliness, eighteen months by works contracts or individual fixed-term contracts, in order to meet these needs. For EKKA, we chose to work with a social cooperative of people suffering, but they are absolutely capable of providing cleaning services. Unfortunately, in the competitive process, because you must also see it, there have also been some formal omissions which have delayed the start of the award of this project. We would cover 70% of the needs of EKA from this social cooperative. There have been issues typically that have delayed this process. Clean - up workers are employed, as they were, in adjacent buildings. They're not moving. They don't move, I mean, long distance, adjacent are the buildings, they're one next to each other or a few meters away, to meet these needs. The only distance you could call it worthwhile under these conditions is the building in Papadiamantopoulou, where the Computer Service of EKKA works, going by car of the organization to provide services there at this distance and within the time limits of their employment. There's no question of overtime. We have given EUR 3 000 to each unit, so that, where there is a problem of occasional and timely coverage of these needs of cleanliness, there is no problem as a whole until this competitive process, which is ahead of completion, is complete, I am sure, in the next period. These are the reasons why such problems have arisen. However, it has emerged for good reason that those contractors who dominate workplaces and cleaning matters are not. I think that this Communist Party is in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u21	Thank you. Please, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u22	I listened carefully to the Minister. There was no talk of some issues. We ask the question: permanent and stable work, recruitment of workers. It's over and out. In this Communist Party, he insists over time now and then, whoever is in the government. Of course, what are you doing, not just to the FBI, to the services you are leading? It's not personal, I mean the Ministry of Labour and the government in general. Like hospitals, for example, who are responsible for the Ministry of Health. You have persecuted contractors and taken over the state, which is in fact under conditions of austerity and slavery. And this job of the slave trade office was taken over by the state against the workers. That's what you did, Minister. It's not personal. This concerns all action, if you like, in the area of labour relations and through the COMPs and others. We are against this type of employment relationship and the creation and functioning of the COMCOMPs. So will workers act like small businesses or business? So you're putting it - to say it with the word - on the triple to be businesspeople. How will these workers work and in what circumstances and who will they be? In conditions worse than before. So we have asked you, in our opinion. Of course this will not be solved in here. We don't have any illusions. We also address this on the occasion of the debate on this issue, as in our political action within the world, in the people, in the workers, in that the workers themselves should, of course, take on and claim permanent and stable employment relationships in the cleanliness sector in the ECA, whether they are in cleaning services or workers in the fund, who are the beneficiaries of cleaning services. And, of course, we have no illusions, when the government comes out and celebrates the surpluses in the EFKA, the 2.2 billion, which are bloody and come from smashing labour and popular rights, cuts, carpeting and going to wages and pensions, and at the same time they circumvent the workers by removing a number of rights they have had up to now in the labour sector, etc., wage rights and goes by saying. So the problem, Mr Minister, Mr President, is deeply political in our view. It must also be a political solution. See now: You have referred to examples here in Athens, but the question concerns not only Athens, but on the occasion, if you wish, the issues that have arisen with the mobilizations, the problems that have occurred in Athens have also been done in other regions. And in Larissa, for example, they're two or three cleaners. In other words, if you'll excuse me, do you think that at the moment the commander, the manager or the service actors, were told to laugh at me and they were laughing, but it's not for laughter, it's for tears. The situation - papers that ask traders and workers to take care of the cleanliness of the place, whether they trade or work, why are there no cleaners? As well, in Thessaloniki. The conventions which expired in December were not renewed. There's a lack of staff over there. Because you referred to Athens, see now. Twenty-five people work in EFKA, in the single superstition, from the old, former OSCE, and they work with two-hour and five-hour employment with what this means for both wages and for rights, etc., as well as eight from the former OSCE with two-hour employment. For example, why cannot they be recruited, converted into permanent and stable work, so that they have full rights like other workers? So it's a political matter, of course. And the government's orientation is no illusion that we are not in this direction, that it is in recruitment, that of permanent staff with rights, with working hours, with insurance rights and in general rights as a whole. After all, you yourself also admitted in your protagonists what your direction is towards these needs, not just those of the funds, but if you want to do so in general. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, too. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Lambroulis, maybe I should be more detailed. This is not a question of cooperative integrations dealing with cleanliness in the ECA, it is not a general plan that we have before us. It is about the psychosocial integration of people through work - and they have the job capacity and this has been tested - we also help their own development through social relations and not to their marginality. EFKA, I think it makes you aware of this. You are not indifferent to this issue, I am sure. EVKA is a social security institution and should primarily pay attention to such needs. I spoke about a competitive procedure - I am explaining why I did not explain it before - with a social cooperative that has such people. It is not a general form of organization of the economy, it is people with psychosocial integration who have such a capacity. That is where we have delayed the completion of the procedure for certain formal obstacles. If these impediments are insurmountable, unfortunately, this will not be the contract, which covers 70% of the needs of the EPC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u25	With this 70% of what's going to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u26	All the others who are working, of course, will retain their jobs and other people will be added, that is what I have said, on the basis of the provisions I have just mentioned, which will further strengthen the real cleanliness needs which are currently not sufficiently met. I don't hide the problem. There is. But I explained the reasons. I think that - even with a slight delay that can be achieved - we need to see this with the sensitivity that we deserve to have in this direction because we want to give a solution. And it is not that we save the surpluses of the FBI from such reasons. It's not possible. Yesterday it was completed and today it seems that the relevant notices will also come out after the levy has been cleared: a million two hundred thirty thousand insurers pay up to 200 euros. In other words, 88% of the free professionals and self-employed persons give the minimum amount when we had only 27% of this category in the past to pay up to EUR 200. In other words, it is not the case that the surplus is not due to a loss of expenditure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u27	You're gonna cut off their pensions now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u28	No, because you said it that health has suffered because it is not covered by the needs we need to meet. The EEA for hospitals was EUR 149 million in 2014 and we gave EUR 580 million in 2017. It's over 439 million more than before. And we also gave 133 million extra for old debts to EEAY. It is unfair not to support this effort to strengthen social security and health, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u29	I didn't say anything about health.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u30	You said the bloody surpluses...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, it answers as the Minister thinks. He's not answering the questions I put.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u32	Bloody surpluses are not proven to be bleeding.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u33	I didn't raise health issues. I have raised issues relating to health, the COMPs are also being exploited. That is what I told you, that we as a party disagree. I made this point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u34	The reintegration of mentally ill, don't you want it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u35	And why should it be through a COMPA? Do I have the floor, Mr President? I don't have him. I understand the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u36	The reintegration of mentally ills through work, don't you want it? Is that possible? That's all I had to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u37	Minister, you answer as you wish, of course. My position, as president, is her. I can't tell you how to answer it or don't answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u39	And because the Vice President is complaining, I say that you respond as you judge. I can't tell you whether you're answering or not. That's what I'm saying. The Rules of Procedure do not apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, please give me the floor for 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u41	Here you go, Mr. Bright.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u42	Thank you. I understand that, I know, I know that, but it is not possible for the Minister to give up, for example, on the question of workers, perhaps future workers, who are facing psychiatric problems that we are against. We are against the form of public recruitment and goes on to say. I told you in my dentistry. Of course we say and claim for these people with mild forms of psychiatric problems, as for people with disabilities, provided by the laws, but neither the public nor the private sector. Unemployment in SMEs and mentally ill people who can offer work has been hit red. Their unemployment is 95%. And now you're turning around and telling us that the JRC doesn't accept this thing? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u43	The clarification has been made, Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u44	That's for the Minister to get it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u45	We're not having a conversation now. You know that the Rules of Procedure forbid this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u46	Yes, and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u47	The Minister took it into consideration.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u48	Yes, but it's a distortion of our party's positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u50	Minister, let's not have a conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u51	It has to be understood what I said. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u52	Yeah, but let's turn this off.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u53	I do not object to the JRC for a lack of protection for those who are suffering. I said the opposite. I said - and you will see it from the Minutes - that I am sure the JRC agrees with the employment of these people. I didn't say otherwise. I didn't even reproach the JRC that she didn't want to. I can hardly say that it will agree, and that is why we will have a delay in dealing with these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u54	The clarifications have been made, I think, and so, ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-10-S1-commons.u55	With the consent of the House at 10.40 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, May 11, at 10 p.m., on the subject of the body's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
