ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Vice-President of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, the Minister of Interior, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Environment and Energy, Migration Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Home Affairs, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Energy, have tabled a draft law on 30-3-2018: ‘Movement of the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Integration into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2015/1794 and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 29 March 2018 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting on principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. The rapporteur for SYRIZA Mr Nikolaos Symmalenes has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u3	Good morning, everyone. First of all, I would like to express to the Minister my condolences to the death of loved ones. I'm going into the bill. With this bill today, we are voting on the incorporation of Directive 1794 into the Greek legal order, as well as other provisions, which deal with specific, mature outstandings in various areas of responsibility of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. The incorporation of this Directive refers to the first two parts, the first part of Articles 1 to 9 and the second part of Articles 10 to 12, while the other provisions include the provisions of Articles 13 to 27. European Directive 1774/2015 refers mainly to maritime workers and has been a product of consultation with the social partners, achieving a balance between the terms and conditions of work of seafarers and the provision of maritime transport services. The Directive also amends several directives of the European Parliament and of the European Council, incorporating legislation on the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer, establishing a general framework for the information and consultation of workers in the European Community, on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to collective redundancies, and on the maintenance of workers' rights, in the event of transfers of undertakings or parts thereof. This Directive ensures that seafarers are protected more effectively, after the exceptions applicable to group redundancies for seafarers' crews have been lifted, and the predominant exemption for fishermen, paid for in the piece, respectively. The active participation of seafarers in the information and consultation procedures shall also be guaranteed by exploiting the use of new technologies to ensure the participation of members in the special negotiating group and in the European Works Council. Article 5, which provides for the obligation of the shipowner or shipowner to consult and transmit to the Council of the Commercial Navy information, while taking into account the naval measures to refuse redundancies, such as the amounts for self-insurance cover, training and advice, with a view to reintegrating into the labour market, as well as measures for the use of specific programmes to address threatened unemployment and ways of reinstatement, in order to implement group redundancies, administrative procedures and deadlines for agreement of the parties, and the Council of the Merger Navy shall ensure that the procedures provided for in Article 8 are complied with, also provides for the cancellation of group redundancies if the provisions laid down are infringed. Articles 10 to 12 adapt the national institutional framework to the provisions of the Directive. In particular, Article 11 stipulates that the provisions of the Bill on group redundancies of seafarers are not applicable: firstly, because of failure to carry out or interrupt ships in maritime cabotage and, secondly, because of failure to carry out or interrupt tourist ships, operating on a seasonal basis. Furthermore, this draft law does not prejudice the relevant legislation on the organic composition of vessels' crews. Articles 13 to 27 shall refer to the other provisions. With the other provisions of Article 14, therefore, the annual feeding allowance is awarded to all students of the Academy of Merchant Navy, to students of a mixed student, while the amount of the allowance, estimated by the General Accounting Office of the State at EUR 1,300 000, will be established by a joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministries of Finance and Shipping. Article 16 also sets out the remaining 15 months with regard to the Port House Relief Fund and defines the resources and the one. Article 17, concerning tourist ships, deletes the transport capacity requirement of more than 12 persons to conclude a charter, starting and delivering to the Greek territory. Furthermore, Article 23 provides for a five-year obligation service to be accorded to the Armed Forces. In addition, Article 13 deals with matters relating to the internal affairs service of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, and defines: Firstly, the possibility of being assisted by the Athenian Prosecutors' Prosecutors, which supervises the Greek Police Internal Affairs Directorate. Secondly, the transmission of the statement of assets by the civil servants of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy from the Home Affairs Service to the competent third Control Unit of the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority's Statement of Income from Criminal Activities instead of the Prosecutor's Prosecutors' Office of Piraeus, assisted by the Ministry of Home Affairs of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. Furthermore, Article 15 regulates certain issues of the Port Regulatory Authority. Arbitration is established in relation to the differences between persons involved in port services, thus contributing to the decongestion of the courts. The notion of an obligation to provide information by natural persons shall be clarified. It extends the jurisdiction of the Port Regulatory Authority to all the administration bodies of the Hellenic Port System, including all eighty port and municipal port funds throughout the State. Adequate coverage of the staff needs of the Port Regulatory Authority with disposition or secondment from the Port Body of Greek Coast Guard, by civilian personnel, as well as by the Ministry of Shipping or by persons supervised by it and the process of reforming its budget is clarified. Under the provisions of Articles 20 to 22 and Article 26, arrangements under Article 79 of Law 4504/2017 relating to the proper functioning of the system of pan-Hellenic examinations for the importation into the Port Body of Greece, Greek Coast Guard. Amongst these in particular: In line with Greek Police, there are two productive schools of the Port College, the Port Guard Testimonials School and the School of Significant Testimonials, and the School of Testing Officers is deleted and the inclusion in these two schools in the year 2018-2019 is identified. The right to import into the Schools of the Port Body is also granted to vulnerable social groups such as multiples, disabled children of war victims, children who have been devastated from the Port Corps during duty, etc. They are also excluded from the import system by specific tests, such as military specialists specializing in doctors and dentists. Finally, Article 24 is replaced by Article 157 of the Code of Public Maritime Law and the procedures for enforcing administrative penalties for infringements of the police provisions of port regulations with a view to transparency are improved. In the discussions we have had so far in the committees we have heard strong criticism, particularly from the New Democracy, that we are going to revise the provisions of Law 4504/2017, which we have recently voted on in Parliament. This, in their view, confirms the curiosity and amateurism of this government. We're answering them. This government has the courage and the daring to quickly correct and revise regulations, which are seen by life as not walking and which need to be amended. On the other hand, the New Democracy, captive of the choices that led the country to the brink of bankruptcy, continues its demolition criticism, acting as the legitimate owner of the country. It cannot be familiar with the fact that this government has entered its fourth year of governance and that it leads the country with steady steps to exit from the crisis and at the end of the memoranda, forming the next day with fair and sustainable growth. With regard to the criticism of anti-territorial provisions and the demolition of labour rights, the liberalisation of collective redundancies, particularly on the part of the JRC, tells them that, unlike the transposition of the directive, rules on protection and consultation with seafarers' representatives are in place, rules that were not in place before national law. I conclude my introduction, wishing all my colleagues good Easter, good Resurrection, the country and the people. And right after Easter, the follow-up. Be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Charalambos Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is designed - as is apparent from the report, as well as from the purpose of the directives - to integrate into the Greek legislation of the basic Directive 2015/1794. This is another draft law by the government, which only in the title, concerns the incorporation of a directive, since the articles relating to other unrelated issues are more: fourteen against twelve. In fact, no public consultation has taken place for these provisions. This, in itself, should be a reason to vote against these provisions. It is worth noting that the directive of the Council and of Parliament incorporating it into the draft law does not regulate a new issue or reform a whole new one, but settles the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2008/94, 2009/38 and 2002/14, as well as Council Directives 98/59 and 2001/23, which regulate maritime issues. The Directive was to be incorporated into national law until 10 October 2017. So he comes to the House with a long delay. First of all, I would like to stress that the previous directives provided for exceptions to certain categories of seafarers from their scope. After extensive social dialogue at European level, the social partners in the maritime sector reached a joint agreement which, in essence, led to the adoption of a directive. This agreement was designed to achieve a balance between the need to improve the working conditions of seafarers and the need to take account of the specific characteristics of the sector. It results from the directive's acceptance that it is in the first place moving in the right direction, as it extended provisions of labour law and seafarers, which so far have not been able to implement in all the countries of the European Union. Therefore, we should normally recommend the adoption of the bill as a whole, maintaining minimum reservations. And yet, even in this case, the government succeeds - because it is a success - in bringing about a bill on which we have serious disagreements and objections. The draft law is divided into three parts. Part I attempts to integrate Directive 2015/94/1794 into national legislation. In this respect, we have no particular objections. I shall refer to the next item. In Part B, provisions of national legislation are amended pursuant to the incorporation made in Part 1. In this part we have reasonable questions, in particular on the question of compatibility in Article 11 with Union law. In Part III, arrangements are introduced for the responsibility of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy. Many provisions replace provisions which the government recently legislated by Law 4504/17. Therefore, it turns out in practice that the New Democracy among others said in those days that Law 4504/17 was a monument of rough and fragmentary legacy. Similarly, provisions relating to L.4389/2016 are also amended. Many of the provisions of this Part are either rheology and therefore have not been consulted, or are corrections to recent regulations which the Government itself has adopted and found that they are not working. Some of them, in particular that of Article 24, are also scandalous and raise reasonable questions, and we have strong disagreements or reservations about Articles 11, 14, 15, 20, 21, 25 and 27. As far as Part I is concerned, Article 1 includes the purpose of the bill. Article 2 abolishes the exclusion of fishermen, paid to the part of the scope of the article e.g. No 1/1990 on the protection of the insolvency of the employer. Article 3 seeks to incorporate the amendments to Directive 2009/38 into national law and to facilitate the participation, representation and consultation of employees in the European Works Council. Articles 4 to 8 amend the existing transposition into national legislation of Directive 98/59 on collective redundancies. Article 1(2)(c) of the Directive excludes seafarers from the Directive. That exemption is repealed by Article 3(1) of the Directive. Where appropriate, integration could refer to the provisions of labour law, intervene only when necessary due to the nature of maritime work. Instead, the regime and procedures for collective redundancies are being legislated from the outset. The limits remain the same as for enterprises, as defined in Article 74 of Law 3863/2010, which amended the original Law 1387/1983. However, collective redundancies are excluded under fixed-term or seafaring contracts, but also on public-owned seagoing vessels. Article 9 seeks to adapt the Greek legislation to Article 5 of Directive 2015/1794 concerning the amendment of Directive 2001/23/EC on the maintenance of workers' rights in the event of transfers of undertakings, establishments or parts of establishments or undertakings. At the outset, I must say that for Part I of the bill, for all these articles, we are positive and the New Democracy will vote for them. Let's go to Part II. With Article 10, which I must say is a follow-up to Articles 4-8, it is laid down that the members of the Special Negotiation Group and the European Works Council, who are seafarers, enjoy the trade union privileges of Articles 26-28 of Law 330/76 on the protection of redundancies if they participate in the consultations, Article 56(3). In Rule 11 we object and have spoken to it in committee, Minister. In essence, this Article introduces exceptions to the scheme of collective redundancies introduced by Articles 4 to 8. There are therefore exceptions to the dismissal of seafarers, who are made on grounds of non-implementation or interruption of ships falling under Law 2932/01 - that is, tourist or seasonal ships - and for contracts resolved under Article 68 of the Code of Private Maritime Law. Who are these? It is the loss of ships, the misappropriation of the Greek flag and the divestment of a public auction. Similarly, paragraph 2 of the Article stipulates that these provisions do not prejudice the requirements for the establishment of an organic composition of ships. I wonder whether the government ensures that these provisions are permissible exceptions to Directive 9586. And I wonder quite rightly, Minister, because the explanatory statement is silent. We asked you directly to the committee if you would investigate the compatibility of the exceptions with Union law. However, we do not intend to act irresponsibly, by voting on provisions, which may lead to references and convictions of our country by European courts. With Article 12, the Commercial Navy Council, namely the CEN, created by Article 118 of Law 4504/2017- of your law - becomes the competent body to oversee the legislative regime and procedures for collective redundancies of seafarers. We have expressed and continued to express reservations about the suitability of this instrument. If you wanted an instrument to carry out a check, you could assign it to the Naval Labour Department. Part III of the bill with the first paragraph of Article 13 states that the Department of Home Affairs of the YEN assists the respective Greek Police and its Chief Prosecutor with regard to statements of property status. This responsibility was recently entrusted to the latter under the recent law of the same Government. I am referring to Article 83 of Law 4500/2017, that is where you delegated that responsibility. The amendment to which you are going today, Mr Minister, is therefore not understandable. The second paragraph stipulates - and this is the strange thing here, not to mention a suspect - that the record of the assets statements submitted to the Home Office is sent to the corresponding Greek Police. Theoretically, it's about transferring a file. However, from the wording I think that those who sent their statement to the wrong authority may be covered and their re-entrustment to the right authority would therefore be delayed. In view of this, Minister, we have asked for further clarifications on the feasibility of this provision, because it is not always possible to reward the government's sloppy legislation. I'm on my way to Article 14. In accordance with the provisions of that Article, the annual feeding allowance, which currently amounts to EUR 600 and which was awarded to the internal students of the Academy of the Commercial Navy, is now assigned to the other students of the academy under the same criteria. Also, under the same article, the amount of the allowance ceases to be laid down in the law and is now set solely in the Minister's judgement, as it is foreseen to be determined by a Ministerial Decision. As a result, the question about what the Ministry intends to finally give is, as the funds are specific. The answer, Minister, is that it comes with paragraph 3, which states that resources can also come from the Public Investment Programme, which I consider to be a mistake. The New Democracy does not disagree with giving more students an allowance or a higher allowance, but under no circumstances should this budget come from the Public Investment Programme, which, incidentally, is constantly falling on your governance. Minister, this money is for jobs-creating investments, not for the government's election benefits.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u6	Aren't students investing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u7	There are other codes to find this money. You will hear below that you have not given what you should have given.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u8	We'll see what you've given and what we'll give.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u9	Are we making a set-up? If we make a set-up, you're the ones who said it. But listen to me. Once again, the sloppiness, irresponsibility and the unresponsible interventions of today's political leadership are being proved, because it is not only the source of the funding of the allowance, but it is also the inconsistency of your words, primarily. I am clear: by Article 51 of Law 4487/2017 you legislated on the same subject last summer, with the expectation that the relevant provision would be started for students from the Commercial Navy Academy on 1 October - so you anticipated - with the start of the new training year 2017-2018. However, you returned by legislating on the matter of feeding just four months ago, under article 145 of Law 4504/2017, where you also made, through the media, but also with your statements, at every opportunity you were able to find, that the student of the Navy Academy began to receive a feeding allowance of 600 euros. However, Minister, despite all your announcements, it has been four months and you are rejoining to settle the same issue in another, more favourable way. Thus, while under Law 4504/2017 the allowance would only be granted to students of indoor school who live in dorms within the Academy of Commercial Navy, that is to say, all other Egyptian and Macedonian Academies, now with the bill you brought, the allowance will be given to all students who live either in the academies or outside the Academies at their own expense, so to all the Academies of Merchant Navy other than the Egyptians, who are an external student. But that's not all. You are also correcting the irrational and unfairness that you have even legislated, i.e. the students who are missing on a trip for a semester, to receive the same amount per year as the others, i.e. EUR 600. With this bill, however, now the amount of the allowance will be fixed by your CFD and I really wonder if it will eventually exceed EUR 300 or 400 per year. This could be done - we would have no objection - after an opinion, no assent, but at least a reasoned opinion, even from the CEN Directorate. But these are speculation, Minister. The reality is that both August and November, and now no student allowance has been paid, because the money, which amount to about EUR 1.3 million annually, has not been paid by the national part of the Public Investment Programme, nor by the co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme, through the NSRF, nor, of course, by the Naval Education Fund, which in no way can be charged such a burden. I know, Minister, because I am very closely following the issue - that despite the constant consultations that you have on the financing, through the operational programmes of the NSRP, both with the Ministry of Finance and with the Ministry of Economy for the Integration of these funds into the Public Investment Programme and the Regular Budget, the start of the grant of the allowance is really 'in the air'. In this sense, only possible remembrance may arise in the proposed arrangement for the entry into force of this allowance from the current educational year. And I'm going to Article 15. Mr President, I would like your tolerance. The bill is too big.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u10	Because you have secondary and you know it, leave something for dentology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u11	I'm not gonna do a second. I'll take the time now. We will vote for the directive because it is indeed right. If the Minister's correcting something and bringing any legislative improvements, we're positive to vote on other articles. But so far, I haven't seen anything. Under Article 15 of the draft law, you will update part of the provisions relating to the operation of the RAL. Here I expected you to have brought some legislative improvements, as the President of the RAL assured us, because he understood where it was wrong. And I'm explaining. The first paragraph of that Article stipulates that RAL may intervene and resolve disputes between users and management bodies, operating as an arbitrator, after adopting a Regulation. As a new Republic, we are in favour of alternative means of resolving disputes. In fact, we have done so, of course, through mediation throughout the whole range of private law. However, such institutions, Mr Minister, do not take place in a We need a programme, a targeting and provision for staff and resources. I will not remain in the second paragraph, because in fact, this is a matter of legal improvement, when you said that there are no obligations to provide information on persons who are not dealt with in criminal matters. I'm overdoing it. Explanations and good faith have been given. However, the third paragraph of that Article adds the legal persons governed by public law to it who are punishable by a fine if they refuse to provide information to RAL in accordance with paragraph 5. The real question to which you have to answer is why they have been excluded so far. That's all. If it's a mistake, we'll see. With the fourth paragraph, it extends the possibility of seconding the RAL and the staff of the Port Body and the Hellenic Coast Guard. I understand RAL can't work with the staff. And of course, we would like there to be a cover for all the staffing needs it has. But you must bear in mind that there are gaps, especially for our ports, which have increased responsibilities now, as you know, with the immigration - refugee issue, especially in the northern Aegean. Paragraph 5 is our main objections. I would like your attention. The fifth paragraph in the explanatory statement aims to correct a legal error, as the reference to Article 125(3) of Law No.4389/2016 is deleted. I would remind you that it is a Memorandum Act that laid down some mandatory guidelines for Greece. However, with the removal of this paragraph, financial control is institutionalised, so that it relates only to the initial allocation of RAL appropriations and, if it is carried out, there is no control, if there is internal redistribution of funds, even rapid and unjustified. This provision may not be as innocent as it seems and I would ask you to clarify this provision further. He said to me, "We spoke to the President of the RAL and said that there is no problem at all. In any case, we will bring about a legislative improvement.' It is a mistake, however, as is the structure of the article. I'd like to tell you again to see it. The objective is paragraph 6. I read what he says. He wants a lot of attention. ‘RAL may, by reason of a reasoned decision, record or increase appropriations in its budget with a reduction in other appropriations during the financial year’. Be careful, change it and stop here with the modification. But look at what he says below. That is why I tell you that in such matters one must have all the provisions and philosophy of law. It says in the old article: “... in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article,” which is deleted. But let's see what paragraph 3 of that article says? It says in the preceding subparagraph: ‘The auditing of financial data and annual accounts and financial statements shall be carried out by two sworn accountants. These figures and financial statements shall be published on the RAL website and in the Official Journal of the Government and submitted to the President of the Parliament, together with the annual report...’. Why did you remove that? It was understood by the President of the RAL and he says 'yes, you are right, Minister, to question me and he said 'we will fix it'. But I didn't see you bring anything. I'm putting down the article as it used to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Athanasios, you have covered your second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u13	Yes, I'm done, Mr. President. Article 17 corrects Article 3 of L.4256/2014. I don't have much to say here. We had a reservation, but we'll see it later if you bring anything. Articles 18 and 19 are right. We'll vote for them. I'm going to article 20 for the Officers' School. He's going to say that, too, Mr. Placiotakis, who knows very well. We are opposed to the abolition of the Petty Officers' Faculty. Mr President, I would just like to say a few words on the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u14	We're already in twenty-three minutes, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u15	What I'm going to say is very essential, because we had a disagreement with the Secretary-General too, but I don't see any improvement coming. In Article 20, Minister, we are putting ourselves in a negative position because, firstly, it introduces undisturbed arrangements, which have a smell of service, at the expense of the public interest and the proper functioning of the Port Corps and the Coast Guard. Secondly, we disagree that the quota in paragraph 5 - that is to say, the right to exempt admission to schools is introduced - it is not explicitly institutionalised, but is left to the absolute judgement of the Minister in question. Today it is you, tomorrow it will be Mr Plakatakis, I don't know who he will be, the 'x', the 'fs'. Of course, we disagree with the inclusion of the third category of beneficiaries. I shall now go to the last article, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Listen, in Article 24, we said yesterday, Mr. Secretary, that we are vertically opposed to this. The whole article is amended and you said that this concerns only the general and special regulations of ports. It's not like that, though. I also raised the report of the Law at the time, of the D.C. 187/1973, but I also read to you why your objective here is not to amend, reform the entire article, but paragraph 6. You are now aware of what was happening in Saronicos by the ship "AYIA ZONI" what was important. Hear what paragraph 6 says, because you have disagreements, Mr Secretary: "In serious cases of oil pollution" - to hear it also from SYRIZA colleagues - 'from vessels from the territorial seas of ports and coasts'. It's lex specialis, as lawyers say, special law. The Minister has the right to impose a fine of up to 50 million drachmas. Do you know what that means? It means 146.735 euros. How much do you do that now? You're doing it 60,000 euros. Why? That's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u16	Oh, no. 1,200, we imposed...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u17	And finally, with regard to retrospectiveness, Article 27...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u18	I'm sorry, Mr. President, he says things he's not...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u19	Yeah, but we've been in twenty-five minutes if we're going to dialogue now at thirty-two, we're lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u20	Why did you do it 60,000?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u21	You say things that aren't right. It's 1,200. Tell us to the "A1" that has sunk, what a fine you imposed and what a fine we imposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u22	Minister, please. Mr. Athanasios, you can explain to the Minister outside now the fines.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u23	I do, Mr President, analyse the provisions and see what problem it will be, because it makes no sense to do so. Withdraw. If it's okay, Mr. Secretary, leave it as it is. Here you saw what happened with the "Saint Zone" and the Saronic. And now you come the 146,000 euros, 147,000 euros fine to make 60,000 euros!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u24	It's 1,200,000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish. We're in twenty-seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, you are right. I shall refer to retrospectiveness and Article 27...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, but your colleagues are also waiting below.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u28	With regard to the entry into force of the first chapter of the bill, due to the delay in incorporating the directive, we do not agree with the retroactive legislation and we wonder whether it will have unforeseen consequences, especially for collective redundancies. As far as the amendments are concerned, we will hear what you are going to accept and then answer them. I think, however, that Mr Kefaloyannis, too, will be answered as a parliamentary representative. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President, and good Easter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u29	Be well. Easter is, we're relaxed, but not like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u31	Here you go, Mrs Manolaku.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u32	There are other ministries' amendments. I would like to ask whether the respective ministers will come and tell us why we have questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u33	They'll be here at 13:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u34	Secondly, another ministerial amendment has been posted by the Ministry of Shipping, and we would like to ask whether there will be further surprises by the end of the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u35	Do you disagree, Mrs Manolakou, with this amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u36	Mrs Manolakou, Minister, if we are to say something to the microphone so that it can be written in the Minutes, we all know what is going on. Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, special speaker on behalf of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u37	Is there another amendment? I really don't know, Minister. Is there any other way than what we've seen until yesterday?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u38	No, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u39	Good. We now have a draft law on shipping, which is of interest to its title. Integration of a directive on the protection of the maritime profession. We will see, then, that Europe has been generally protecting labour law for many years, but it will give us a thought on why it does not protect the maritime profession and comes only in 2015 - when the earlier directives are already settled since the 1970s and 1980s - to impose on the Member States to protect seafarers. In 2015! So no one's answering that. And the instructions themselves do not reply to their preamble. So I will repeat the thought that has been created to me. Today, with the extension of the directives, is something hidden? Because at the moment there are seafaring countries of the European Union - even though we regard them as all of the Union - which compete with Greek shipping. I have said, therefore, that, yes, we on the part of the Democratic Reconciliation cannot but consider integration to be a positive one because it concerns the protection of workers and, above all, in difficult circumstances. Navy work is not easy for anyone to do. Anyone who exercises it is disfellowshipped from his place, disfellowshipped from his family and must therefore be strengthened. But there is also the concern which I have put to the committee. Greek-owned shipping is much larger than shipping under the Greek flag. As far as those ships written in the Greek register are concerned, their crews are protected. However, as far as those ships which are not registered in Greece are concerned, and are on various registers throughout the world, which are the large number of ships, are protected only from the International Maritime Organisation's convention. We must say that this convention does not ultimately protect the rights of seafarers, it simply attempts to protect only one elementary, minimum, and now our country needs not only this, but it is a very great need to strengthen the presence of Greek seafarers on ships and not to be under Greek flag. So I also told the Minister, and I think he has already accepted it, that at some point there should also be a broader debate on this point to see. I would like to remind you that, ladies and gentlemen, maritime transport is 90% of world trade. Within this 90% of world trade around 1/3, and especially in the last few years, China has long transport to both China and outside China, it is made by a Greek-owned fleet. I would like to remind you that the Chinese large banks fund Greek shipowners to build their ships in the Chinese shipyards. I am concerned about all this, because at the moment, if we are inactive, we may be at risk of being left behind by the students of the commercial seafarer. I therefore propose a broader debate on this point, so that we see this parameter, because, yes, we are protecting the Greek seafarers who are on vessels flying the flag of Greece or on ships under the European or Union flag. But let's see the rest of us. Let's go, after that. Moreover, this bill has in Part II the provisions on the application of the Directive. I will have no particular objections to that. I consider them to be implementing provisions and, therefore, I must now move on to the other provisions. With regard to the other provisions of the bill, others are positive and others are negative. For those that we consider positive, I will not say much. I would just say that, in fact, our maritime feeding allowance is to be extended. We don't get to the details how much it is or what it's gonna be. We imagine that in the ministerial decision it will be sufficient. We won't let these students fall, not to say the other word I don't want. I think it's enough. As regards, it says, the regulations on maritime tourism and, in particular, on tourist ships, there is, as you know, a wider problem with the flag of tourist ships moving within the Aegean Sea. There's been a small arrangement with the previous law. We are waiting for the results, to see what will come of this summer's season. I do not think, Mr Ministers, that your regulation in the previous law was definitive. I have to say it because we have no results yet. So let's wait in the fall. But what has given me too much concern again is the issue of the RAL, the Port Regulatory Authority, which you will forgive me for saying that I have an obsession, because I am concerned about. RAL is supposed to - and its President has told us - to be a competition authority, it is also an advisory body, it also has some decisive powers with the new law, which also acquires, but we now see that it can now go to ports. Detect porters who will meet the needs. I, like the Democratic Reconciliation, have raised an objection to this. We do not want to shake down the hierarchy of the Port Authority, which is currently very sensitive and useful and to place in political positions practically uniform. So, on the subject of RAL, we have reservations not only about what Mr Athanasios said earlier, but also about the way in which we think it should not be done, because this period in which we have been in the last few days has given rise to an increase in the immigration-refugee problem, which we do not know about. It is not, of course, this draft legislation, so that I can refer in particular to it. What I have to recognise, however, is the contribution of the Port Authority to research - rescue and care yet. I believe that at the moment the Port Corps and the Greek Coast Guard offer not only the security of the country, but also the humanitarian dimension that must exist in such crises. So far, these are our remarks. I would like to say something else, however, which has created an issue. It has been heard in committee that the articles of the directive which are incorporated must be given retroactive effect, so that we do not jeopardise sanctions by the European Union. So if I remember a date well, 17 October 2017 or at any rate nearby, and that is where my question was born, and I put it, and I got a good answer, I think, and so we need to make a legislative improvement. So I asked: In order to force us to give retroactive power to our legislation, a reasoned opinion from the European Commission calling on Greece to explain why it has delayed or not? I have taken Mr Santorinio - if I remember correctly - the answer 'no'. Therefore, if it is negative, it remains a negative answer and there is no need to create interpretative problems in a law and to give retroactive power to issues that are already protected, such as labour rights. Because I imagine that the differences that will arise from today and beyond will require the application of the new law, while those that have been born in the past are already being dealt with either in compromise or in court and we are applying previous provisions. So I think we should come to this point in the legislative improvement to resolve this issue. I would like to say a few words in general. We have a problem with regard to port policy. Yesterday, the Ministry was kind enough to send me an e-mail, a press release, which says that it is now considering a different policy for granting rights to ports, and it is said that it may choose from here and beyond the individual concessions so that they are competitive, complementary and that regional ports and Attica can be developed, such as Lavrio and Rafina. That's nice. However, these should not, Mr Ministers, be part of a National Strategic Port Plan that we are waiting for, because, if there is such planning, we will also be able to talk about the individual policies, which at least have not been manifested at the moment. I have a picture that there is a premise of planning 2013-2018, if I am not mistaken, and what I know is that with Law 4150/2014 the National Port Plan should already have been tabled so that there is a single policy, adopted by Parliament, passed by the Committee on Production and Trade, that we too should have knowledge and opinions on this and then talk about the new planning, because the Government retains a freedom to choose concessions which we do not know who will be. We have supported not en bloc concessions but individual concessions, because we consider this to be the case that greater investments are being made for ports and, moreover, they are being made complementaryly - competitive within the same activities, so we have a better effect on employment, on users' service, on public revenue. These are issues which we consider critical not only for shipping but also for tourism, for which we are currently waiting for a new tourist season and which is announced to be a large number. And that is where we no longer want problems of poor service or of negative impressions for our country if users or passengers cannot be served. I will supplement this before I finish, Mr President - because it has previously accepted an indirect suggestion not to exceed time, and I would like to keep to my second point - that the period that we are facing is crucial not only for the issues that I mentioned. It is particularly critical, because the roundabout we are living under is indeed liquid. I do not want to do, as I have said, a foreign policy which does not relate to foreign policy. I would like to say, however, that there are provisions in the bill which we can only regard as positive, which strengthen the Port Corps and the Greek Coast Guard. However, I have had a question from the institutions. So I heard about the famous decision of the Council of State ordering the return of retrospective detentions. I have heard, however, that only 50% of the years have been paid and that 50% of the other is pending in the wages of the ports. Is it time for that too? Furthermore, because when we talk about shipping, Greece has the specificity of islands, we should also stand on it a little. Because the first line is always the islands and here it is the smaller islands. Should we - do we believe that this 24% of VAT should be reviewed on the islands, or should the government at least bring evidence that it has contributed to public burdens? I feel - I do not claim to be absolute in my opinion at the moment - that every rise in taxation has two results: on the one hand it has a reduction in consumption, because VAT is on the consumer and, on the other, it is a bad idea for tax evasion. So I think that this should be reviewed too. And finally - because I have little time, I will say - I want the government to rethink and the concessions it makes in general and, in particular, the price. I received a bill from the Ministry of Shipping, where I recommended the concession of the OLF, the contract between the Greek State and the OLF. I expressed a thought. Reading the financial statements, I saw that there are sixty-five million reserves available in the EAF Fund. So I asked Mr Tsakalotos - I did not ask Mr Kourublis, he does not have competence, because the TIADE and the holding company supervised by Mr Tsakalotos - and I said whether he has obtained any provision to protect the interests of the Greek State. It was discussed last week. The interests of the Greek State by retaining or distributing the cash reserves as a dividend, rather than giving them to the new investor. I got the paradoxical answer that I could ever get, that they were taken into account - it says - when setting the price and the reserves. But, at least, let me say this: the offer of honour made it by the person who sought the auction. He did not put a minimum price on the Greek state, so that we would say that would be in favour of his interests. And at this point, I think they need to be re-examined, because I see that in the forum and at the time of things a great deal is missing which, instead of strengthening the country's Greek economy and its existence, is weakening it. Mr President, thank you
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Carras. My colleague, Mr Kouzilos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have the incorporation into the Greek legislation of Directive 2015/1794 of the European Union and we see in Part I and Part II - in fact I will take this together - two positive parts. Of course, we cannot be negative in this part that speaks of the protection and re-enlargement of Greek workers, the Greek seafarers. We have finally seen something positive from the European Union coming and being ratified in the Greek Parliament. Part II is in substance additional provisions. And because there has been a lot of talk about Article 11, where some play their own games and are trying to say that they are against the Naval movement, to reread what Article 11 says, paragraph 2. It says: "Provisions concerning group dismissals of seafarers are without prejudice to the requirements of the existing legislation defining organic composition". So as long as there is organic composition, there can be no redundancies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u42	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u43	There can be no group redundancies as long as there are organic compositions. I say this to make this clear, because some people are trying to play some of their own games in the backs of Greek seafarers and misinform the maritime family. I'm saying this to be realistic and typical. I'm presenting in the Minutes the record. He's talking about all this, and he's clearing it up, [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Kouzilos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned memorandum, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, the WIPO memorandum also speaks of something else. This particular thing that you brought yes is good, but in fact as a opposition you complained about N.4150/2013, yelling, yelling - and with you too - for specific articles of this law. Now we see that these articles do not hurt at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u44	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u45	For group redundancies, the coastline, the Mediterranean Seas of L.4150/2013, not for your own law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u46	What we did for the sea worker never dared to do. We extended the law on undeclared work at sea. You don't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u47	Minister, don't you let that happen to me after your speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u48	If you remember in your own law we had voted in favour of Rule 78. I guess you don't remember that well and we were - Mr Santorinius remembers - the first to point this out and said it was very positive. I'm sorry, but what you said is inaccurate. The position of WNO is clear: not just any redundancies, and even under the cloak of collective redundancies, but the WNO is calling for an increase and a safeguard for organic compositions. Because here is the problem in the ferry, mostly in the summer months. We saw with n.4150/2013 the problems created by organic compositions, to be all at one point and to listen and to be serious problems with this law. In Article 13, Part III, they are the inner affairs of the Port Body. It's the first time we've seen in the Port Corps that we have a woman director. It's an originality, it's very good. Our objection to this article is that you are trying by your law to integrate the Internal Affairs Directorate of the Port Body into the ELAS. That finds us vertically opposing. And there is, in my written question under Protocol number 3335, what you said, that the main objective of the alleged transfer of all the responsibilities and personnel of the Port Authority's Home Affairs Service is to deal effectively with the problems. All this has put us in some thoughts, doubts, reflections. We do not accept this transfer. And we see that by your law you put it, you took it out, and you accepted too many criticisms of this article. You have not yet made it clear whether your purpose is for the Home Affairs Directorate to join ELAS or to be upgraded. That's not clear. In relation to Article 14 for AEN, it is yet another positive article that we are seeing. In the recital, you say that financial aid is sought, bringing about a substantial improvement in the training provided. I would like to give you a parentheses here and tell you that public maritime education is also in the Schools of the Egyptian Prime Minister, where children are indeed facing too many problems. Do not forget that it is their transport, it is the feeding, which is done for internals. Now we also need to see greater help for the children of the Egyptian Prime Minister on all these issues. Public maritime education is a key part. And as you agreed, Minister, and in committee, there are indeed very strange games that have been playing and have not yet been stopped in relation to maritime education. Many people are asking for and want the NEIs to be activated, there to be private schools. On this article, we have requested only one legislative, that is to say, to define when, in how long, in 30 days, in sixty days' time, the CSR will be issued. Because I have given you a very simple example of the FYROM that was in existence for the transfers of PPA and EAT, which has not yet resolved this issue. Here's the time, so everyone can be right in their signature. Also, Article 145 of your law refers to the amount. We're waiting to see the NSA, so we can see the new amount again. I come to Article 15 which has been a great deal of talk about ral. In fact RAL and IAL are two pieces that you made, you changed them with your own people. Let's just go to paragraph 4 of this article on the secondment of the members of the Port Authority. I have here made a concrete proposal to you: a person from the retired, a person who will be appointed by the headquarters of the Port Authority with formal and practical qualifications. Moreover, in paragraph 1 you say that ‘It is estimated that Piraeus will be promoted as an arbitration centre for the purpose of upgrading, developing, international and domestic trade’. I would once again point out to you that in order for Piraeus to become an international shipping centre, four conditions are needed: legislation, infrastructure, maritime justice and a financial system. All the above, the prerequisites, they don't exist. So, in fact, nothing is going to happen. With regard to what you said 'happily, what has happened, we take three people for ral', I told you again that they are not only three people from ral. They are three people in the ADAL, three on the left, several on the other bodies and on various other supervised organisations. In fact, we are talking about a lot of people right now outside the Port House, which is right and left. I come to Article 16 for the TASS. A positive step for the TASS, which must be said to be a relief fund. At some point with the PSI there was a great disaster not only for the TASS, which - I stress it again is a relief fund - took part in its reserve. For Article 18, of course, and we are opposed, because since you have taken the responsibilities from the Maritime Inspection, of course, we cannot be positive about this. I'm going to Article 23. We agree that the five-year service should indeed be recognised in the armed forces. But here, I would again stress that you need to activate Article 65 of your own law for the calculation of military service time for promotion to the next degree. They've been waiting so long for so many people, so many of them in the Port House. You haven't answered. I've asked the same question twice. We do not know why at the moment you are not answering. The federations are getting out about what is going to happen with this particular issue and you are not answering it. For Rule 112, we have told you again in committee that you have brought a legislative improvement so that this article can function. We are now talking about your own law, we are not talking about the earlier law. Now, as regards the introduction through pan-Hellenics to the Port Corps, first, set a schedule for restoring repairs to the Naval Testing School in Hatzykyriachio. Secondly, what problems will be created? At the moment the Port Corps needs governors, lieutenants and engineers for its floats. Right now, do you want to have a competition through ASP, as you yelled at when you were in Opposition? Why? Because in the next two years we will face a very serious problem. Already last year, people were leaving with a degree that was not justified, and could not be justified in order to get them to do the permits. There's a problem right now. In two years, we'll find all this in front of us. Recruitment to the Port Body and, in particular, masters and engineers. We're not talking about engineers, engineers, etc., because there's no more ship inspection, what can we say? We also see that there are the following problems for the Academy: When and where. Still these questions remain unanswered. For when, we do agree that it is a difficult part. Where, again, there has been a serious problem. Who will go to this Academy if it's made in Alexandroupolis? I think you have reached this problem in your ears too, and you will have to see it very quickly, because we will find it in front of us too. To conclude, I would like to say that the President of this House owes us an answer - it is a matter of the Bureau of Parliament - on the adoption of children of the Port House. In my written question, the Ministry of Shipping has not answered. In a letter to the President of Parliament, he did not reply. Finally, will you tell us if you want to settle this particular matter? Can you talk about this at some point? We expect to see the transport equivalent, which is starting pilots, what results will be and what will be its continuation, which we believe will be the way it goes and the problems that are going to be poorly affected. In relation to what Mr Karras said about ports policy, we want to say that the TIADED, as I have put it in committee, has started the process for the ten regional ports. However, a procedure has been initiated, without specifying what will happen with each port. What concessions will be made? [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] In two minutes' time, Mr. President. I'm coming to the reserve of the NGO. We don't have to say the Treasury gives vague answers. I want to ask a simple question. I had put it to you during the sale of the EGF, because it made me very much impressed. We see the new board of directors of the EGF. I told you and I had opposed your rapporteur, Mr Marda, that it is not a consortium so innocently, it is Chinese from behind. We see that there is a Chinese on the board of directors. Explain to me how this is done. I conclude by saying that there has been no mention of the ninety years that have been completed this month since the establishment of the Port House. With Law 1753/1919, the Port Corps was established, a Port Authority which with low wages, with so many problems, continues and does not only see the everyday life that exists, despite all the problems that exist at the moment. I will not just stand by research and rescue, not just on all these issues of policing and its role, but also on those people's daily lives, when you have to pay EUR 1 200, with children, with loans, etc. to get through it. As provided for in Article 143 of Law 4504/17, 19 March is established as an official day of honour to the Port House. We expect to see when the official event is going to take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. My colleague, Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, if the Ministers want to inform us - I say this because I have questions - I take the floor. I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Paulakis was here earlier, but I told him to wait until the speakers were finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u52	Okay, 'cause I have some questions. This bill is deeply insurmountable because the incorporation of the European Community directive legalises collective redundancies. It is dangerous for the safety of life at sea, as organic positions are reduced to a minimum to increase the profitability of shipowners. In fact, it is so provocative that it is not enough to accept the lifting of the cabotage - which, of course, the previous ones have passed, where, among other things, all concepts of organic compositions have been abolished and as opposition, SYRIZA voted against in 2014 - but through Article 17 you are also giving other privileges and provocative facilities for pleasure boats. It is not enough to exempt the excise duty and duties on fuel, which are abolished collective agreements and which have reduced organic positions, now you are also reducing the capacity of under twelve people, undermining human security for the profits of the businessman, called the 'benefit of the national economy'. But even in this, in breaches of Article 25 and Article 24, you are making sure that they pay the lowest possible fine, since you have reduced the much larger fines that apply to date. A lot of Easter gifts to the shipowners. In essence, with Articles 1 to 12, you incorporate the European Community directive, which legalises collective redundancies by wrapping up the fraud of social dialogue. This is the cornerstone of the European Union's conditions and directives, which you are all piling on, the unobstructed action of capital, in order to ensure its profits, the least restrictions, which today discourage companies from relocating, merged, resale, even close, in order to transfer funds to another industry or to another country. This is also the problem of the European Community directive on collective redundancies, in which Greek legislation is called upon to comply. That is why you are paying tribute to the European Union, to BSE, to the shipowners for the enforcement of ever tougher measures against workers. You therefore ensure that this bill on ship capital is legally able to exceed the above limits on collective redundancies, provided that the Council on the Commercial Navy is informed, that it consults the representatives of seafarers, who will, of course, be appointed by the compromised and erroneous majority in the administration of the IMO and participate in the special negotiating group or the European Council of Workers, i.e. the bodies of the social corporation. But with such a process of false participation in councils and consultations with capitalists as to how much they will lose, there will be no protection of the rights of seafarers in the event of the sale of the ship owners' ships. Not only do seafarers have no interest in engaging in such directives, but on the contrary they are resulting in a reduction in their requirements and needs by means of regulations that substantially intensify and perpetuate their exploitation by the vessel capital. To justify your anti-government abortion, you claim that there are no group redundancies, because there are organic positions, as if you don't know that there are ship purchases and the entire crew are fired or that in the winter season, there are not two three of the summer routes under the pretext of stopping ships. They are all fired with the employer's blackmail to consent to hope in the next period of re-entry. And organic positions, however, are tireless and vary according to the interests of the shipowner rather than the safety of life at sea. In fact, even the compromised WNOs cannot hide how brutal, as stated in its memorandum, the current organic compositions are being scoffed, creating lasting safety risks in the transport, passengers and crew of a ship in the light of the economic interests of the shipowners. In fact, it refers to orders issued and adopted Ministerial Decisions on reduced specific organic compositions of ships that increase unemployment and create risks to maritime safety. Mr Kourublis, you may have complained, but you have confirmed this at a recent trade union meeting, saying about the toweling of organic compositions on passenger shipping, which has been done by laws of 2013 - you - but also with ministerial decisions. The truth is exactly as it is denounced by the class trade unions PEMEN, SEFENS, Cooks' Union and others with two recent press releases at the end of March, which I submit for the Minutes. They state in conclusion about the bill and developments that shipowners, Government SYRIZA - ANEL and their representatives in the trade union movement seek to subject seafarers, workers to capitalist growth plans by strengthening their competitiveness and profitability on the ruins of labour rights. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] In addition, these are the continuation of the overall overturns in the work included in the Memorandums and Evaluation Packages. They point to the intensity of the anti-galactic attack on all fronts by further strengthening the current anti-government legal framework that will provide full freedom for business groups to lay off at hand. This is the complete release of team redundancies. Once for you it was a red line, cultivating a climate of complacentness. But at great speeds, you incorporate European Community directives into Greek law, by imposing capitalists' law on the accelerating exploitation of workers. This is the bourgeois state that you are constantly building new chains for the people and you are getting capital privileges, as did previous governments, New Democracy and PASOK, who are helping you in every way, voting for anti-corruption articles, whether or not your bills are voting on the whole. In other words, it is not enough for the working jungle with individual business contracts, conditions of austerity, heavy wage cuts, the abolition of allowances, the abolition of the Sunday holiday, the undermining of the right to strike, the delivery of energy, ports and airports to businesses and so many others, to move forward with the state's bogeyman and collective redundancies. And it is provocative to call it'more effective protection of seafarers', because there will be an information and consultation procedure as laid down in the explanatory statement with Community-scale enterprises and groups. There will therefore be consultation on how it will go through the dismissal so that there will be no consensus and no minimum compensation. This reduces the labour costs for shipowners. This is your development. Government, European Union, industrialists, shipowners, bankers celebrate for the infamous fair development, the favourable investment environment formed by new privileges, state subsidies, tax exemptions, the use of state infrastructure to promote the business plans of monopolies. We have experience from the port of Piraeus and in general from the privatisations made in previous years. Mr Karras spoke a moment ago about the 65 million gift to 'COSCO'. Indeed, the help you provide is provocative and unacceptable. You have reached the point where you are compelled with asbestos to work unprotected dozens of workshop workers, as well as the crew, i.e. illegal asbestos deforestation work with their direct exposure, bypassing even the relevant Audit Committee of the Ministry of Labour that had ordered interruptions of work, after the control of the "Democritus" to be safely cleaned by a specialized workshop. Although the company has to pay even for medical examinations - because it put workers, crew and residents in the area directly and hugely at risk, and the prosecutor's investigation into the case is still under way - we learn that you are licensed to navigate this ship. We tell you, it's going to be a disgrace. We also give you the complaint of the Trade Union Metal Workshop in the Zone. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] And to say that we have asked the Ministry of Labour a timely question for two months, but they never came to answer. Otherwise, you are presenting as an achievement the annual hunger allowance of EUR 600 corresponding to EUR 1,64 per day for the feeding of the students of the AEN, who will take it, but those who have a good performance certificate from the academies. We ask for it to be given to all students and of course to grow. As far as the Regulatory Authority of Ports is concerned, you are strengthening it more for the role in supervising and controlling Greek ports. We know that this and the whole port system are being privatised. Of course, you have the help of New Democracy and PASOK and other parties of the capital to promote the strategic planning of the Greek bourgeoisie, to upgrade the role of the country as an international energy hub, as a freight hub, with the most active participation of Greece as a host of wars in the United States, NATO, the European Union to control new markets, wealthy energy, pipelines and streets of trade with painful consequences for the peoples. After the ports of Piraeus, and Thessaloniki, they follow Alexandroupolis, Kavala, Igoumenitsas, and also those of Crete, which will be privatised by the model of concessions of their most profitable sections. I would remind you, however, that SYRIZA as a opposition had voted against the recommendation of the RAL, but as a government, it even strengthens it with staff, as if this were the case when the intensification of the work of the ports is known because of the subsistence of services, as well as the difficulties in their mission to protect the maritime borders, to monitor compliance with the rules on maritime safety, for research and rescue at sea, for the protection of the marine environment and others. However, you do not resolve issues that have been raised at times in the articles concerning the Port House. Also, changes in recent articles of laws that you make, create questions and confusions. And don't stop there. There are also amendments, which are, of course, from other ministries. We are going to vote against the banners, after giving them a Easter gift. We are voting against - I believe that we will have more to say in the debate - and the SYRIZA Members' amendment to abolish the right to the children of seafarers to rest and entertainment through the camps of St. Andreas. This right has essentially been exterminated by you and the previous ones for all the children of workers and you propose ministerial decisions, such as those which never come out. Of course, let me say that everything that's a beach is meant for capital. We are presenting for the Minutes the communiqué of the trade unions on camps for seafarers' children. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And we are all telling you that we are voting against the collective dismissals of seafarers and social dialogue - fraud. We support the demands and the struggle of the class naval movement for full stable work with rights for all, replacement of losses, collective labour contracts, effective protection of the unemployed and others. We also support fair demands from the Port House. Workers have nothing positive to expect, as the government and the whole web of Euro-Union directives and treaties are on the other side. They coordinate the attack on workers' rights on behalf of monopolistic groups. That is why land and sea workers must coordinate their action. The satisfaction of the people's labour needs requires a struggle against armaments capital, monopolies, the European Union and all the imperialist lupus, so that boats and wealth produced by workers become popular ownership with the working people in power. It is the only solution to dismiss the exploiters and their parties, namely the collapse of capitalist barbarism and brutality by socialising the means of production for the needs of the people and not the profits of the capitalists.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u55	Excuse me, Mr. Carras, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u56	I have referred to the reserves of the EGF and not the PSF.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u57	Good, Mr. Carras, you made clarification. All right, Mrs. Manolaku heard it. Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. I hear the comments about capitalists and big capital. What am I supposed to do? Today's incorporation of the directive is a very important step forward for the Greek Parliament and for the Ministry of Shipping. The Independent Greeks, having studied and listened to the consultations and consultations of all, will support both the entire bill and the entire Greek bill. You will allow me to say at the end of the bill. It is interesting to me today that the amendments that have been tabled, which we naturally support. The most important is Amendment No 1548. Because the Minister is here, and because I happen to have been involved in them too, when I was particularly concerned with advertising companies and the process of registering, paying and invoking advertising, I would say that this amendment redefined the procedure for registering, broadcasting, receiving a sponsorship of broadcasting, or making time available on paper, advertising, radio and television time. In particular, the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information has tabled an amendment on invoicing advertising in the media. In particular, on the basis of the provisions of the amendment, the following shall apply: All aspects of the advertising transaction are well known to all parties involved, media, advertiser and advertiser. Until first, the costs were hidden and there were hidden revenues and money laundering. This amendment brings the whole transaction to light at an end, along with the mediators. For the payment of the instrument, if an advertiser is mediated, it is both the advertiser and the advertiser. If the advertiser has already paid the advertiser the value of the transaction by means, he shall be relieved of liability. There is always room on the market to give the credit, and cost and time moves from one another. That makes sense. The Minister also knows that this should be the case, because there is a lack of money in the working capital and credit. However, this cannot be a tool of exploitation and unequal competition from an instrument of media or advertising or from another trader to another. Any turnover discounts shall be provided only if a written contract between the average and the advertiser has been preceded, not to the speaker, not under the table. The invoice is issued in the name of the advertiser. Yeah, common sense says that. But we had to fix it. There was no invoice in the name of the advertiser and any inspection carried out in these companies could never be undone by who invoiced which and how much and how much service specific and what instrument. It was a good way to cover up black money. We shouldn't be afraid. It was a lot of this money politics and not just. Advertising costs of the advertised are deductible as business expenses only if they are made on the basis of the above provisions. Yes, because in the tax code it was not clear how and when and under what conditions advertising costs would be deducted. Refunds are reduced from 9.9%, as foreseen in the 'Venizelos Law', to 4%. They may not be given in species. Because if they are given in kind, the control is lost and no one can control it. One should sit around time on TV and never do it. It was a good way again to lose control and this intangible time to be transferred to money for other uses. The creation of the electronic system for the allocation of television advertising time goes on to the delivery bodies, the well-known ones. Private national television stations are involved in the electronic system and regional channels may also be involved. It is a very important bill because when it comes out - and with good at the moment - the procedure for PSE licences must be clear about the rules that will involve an advertiser, advertising and an instrument and the control mechanism, which is the state itself, because it must have a way and a law to control. If there's no law, the state can't control it. There, in these gaps, previous governments have invested many years ago, so that control is lost and black money and black services are transferred in all directions. Amendment No 1547 is extremely important. It's about the debts of the EEA. It stipulates that the debts of health service providers to the National Health Services Agency, the EEAS, established pursuant to paragraph 6 of Article 100 of Law No 4172/2013 and derived from rebate and clawback, or resulting from checks by private audit companies - it is important that this is now also controlled by private companies - they may be offset by due to the EEAS debts to them. We now come to this amendment and to the clearing, which was not done. There was no legal framework for settling. Such debts may also be paid in instalments. Second important part. And EEA debt netting and aggression. The number of instalments, the procedure for payment of debts and any other relevant issue shall be determined by a decision of the Minister for Health. The next two amendments will not be mentioned. They're extremely important. For me, these two were extremely important. As far as the shipping ministry's bill is concerned, I'm not gonna sit down and read all the articles. We have the notes - I can leave them in the Minutes - per article. What is of interest, and I think that Mr Kourublis has seen this issue, is in Article 15 on the Port Regulatory Authority for the decision when making a registration or an increase in appropriations, whether there will be a second or a third check rather than a third check alone. Let's see that. Because the previous law provided for both Parliament and S.H.E. and other procedures. Also, we need to see a little bit of the matter of the fine. I only mention what I would like to see, because we are voting and supporting everything. Because, as you know, both personally and as Independent Greeks we have supported and will continue to support from "a" to "e" the Ministry of Shipping and the two Ministers and all the members of the Ministry, what happened with the pollution, we will have to see the fines, no misinterpretations in the law. The old law was talking about a fine for drachmas. Now we do it from 50,000 to 60,000 euros. Let's see if there's any misinterpretation. Probably if we need to raise them...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u59	You said 60,000?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u60	Yeah. He used to say 50,000,000-60,000 drachmas. Something like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u61	The EUR 60,000 is not about the environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u62	Who will put the fine if the sea or the coast is polluted? Let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u63	There is a fine in progress, for this particular case, 1.200,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u64	It's for pollution and shore. Well done. Then there was a misunderstanding. We should know that and it's good for it to be written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u66	For clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u67	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Cammene, you'll be waiting for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u69	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u70	Wait a minute, literally. We have said so in committee, and we say so here too. What has to do with environmental fines, especially from oil pollution, is Presidential Decree 55/98, so this article of the Code of Public Maritime Law, which is 1993, has actually become dead legislation. There is subsequent legislation, the presidential decree of 555/98 which covers and the amount of 1.200,000 was imposed...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u71	Good. Clearly, very well. It has also been written in the Minutes, so there is no misinterpretation, because misinterpretation and misinformation, you know, Minister, creates political problems, and especially to us in Piraeus and we have many questions and we need to know as non-experts everything and say to the world "discussed, agreed and so). Otherwise, we will be voting on the bill in an article as we have said in its entirety. Thank you very much and I now hope that the regularity and control that we are doing - what we are doing - is whether or not there is undeclared and undeclared work on Greek ships to become a driver for both the next and anyone else to deal with this issue. But here's what the previous people have not done and I say it in good faith and not in bad faith. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, may I now speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Cavalella and Mr. Amyras, you will be waiting for the Minister. Of course, at noon, at 14.00, Mr Paulakis will also be here to present his own amendment. You better know them, so you can talk later. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, thank you very much. I would also like to thank the special speakers who have given me the opportunity to speak now. Mr President, as a Ministry of Digital Policy, we have made a huge effort to regulate the media sector and especially television. In 2015, the TV scenery was not just unregulated, but it was a landscape that had private channels without permission and a public broadcaster who was unregulated. In addition, the space for television advertising was an area full of gray zones. With this amendment, therefore, I think we are taking a very important step to ensure that there are rules of transparency. The situation we have received has unfortunately been - and I will say it before the National Delegation - a factor of deliberate indifference. That was, I think, the saddest. We had phenomena where advertising companies claimed to be paid by television stations and not by advertisers. What does that mean? It means a compression of television stations' finances. And I say this because we do not want this government to be a problematic financial unit. It wants to be units, which also have the possibility of workers paying decent wages and not being delayed and able to produce primary content, which was erased during the crisis. You also know, Mr President, that this very procedure, this deliberate indifference, has created a framework in which we had channels overlaps, which had a total debt of close to 1.5 billion, retarded wages and zero audiovisual primary productions. What, then, does our amendment: all the parameters of an advertising transaction must be known to all three parties, both to the media and the advertiser and to the advertiser. It will not be possible for one of the three parties to hide any element of the transaction that concerns them. For the payment of the instrument if it is mediated by advertising, it is both the advertiser and the advertiser. This is not the case for the advertiser if the advertiser has already made payment to the advertiser. Any discounts - see - turnover are only provided if a contract has been signed between an average and an advertiser. There is no longer the status of orphaned credit invoices, through which the so-called'refunds' were made and they were being developed - I would say - phenomena which have not facilitated tax controls at all. The invoice is issued in the name of the advertiser. If the advertiser is involved, the invoice is issued in the name of the advertiser, but a copy of it is sent to the advertiser. Advertising costs - because one will ask what the enforcement mechanism is and what the incentive to apply all of the above - is that of the advertising expenses that are deductible from the taxable person as business expenses, only if they are incurred under the rules mentioned above. Of course, refunds have been reduced from 9.9%, which has been in force for too many years, since 1995, to 4%. There are also arrangements to create the so-called ‘electronic platform’ for the sale of television advertising time. This platform will be developed by stakeholders, i.e. by the Association of Television Stations, the Association of Advertisers and the Association of Advertising Companies. Private TV stations are involved in the electronic system in Greece, while regional channels, subscriptions and ERT can also be involved. I think that, with today's intervention, we are taking a necessary step, Mr President, which is an integral complement to our efforts to go to a television market, which is regulated and has rules of transparency both with regard to the licensing of television stations and - I would say to you - to the rules of the advertising market. This is in the interests of the workers in the television market and of the people who are waiting through this activity to ensure their livelihood and the public, of course, who we believe will have the opportunity this time to enjoy after years, on the basis of other incentives that the Ministry of Digital Policy has established, but is not here, primary audiovisual content. There are very great opportunities, and I would like to call on the parties concerned, these possibilities of making use of them for the good of everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u77	Six extensions you've given, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u78	What extensions should we give? Mr. Athanasios, don't you understand? You brought a law that was inappropriate. Of course, we have given extensions and now we are moving on to the regulation which the whole market welcomes. The law, which is called "Stopats" if it was applied, risked that this market would be blown into the air. I will say this kindly, this move was an act of reduced responsibility. The implementation of this law would therefore come on top of the problem, and it would produce results, which I think would be multiplier-negative for the market itself and for the quality and content of the programmes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u79	Yes, Minister. Mrs Manolakou, you want a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u80	Minister, you have tried. However, in the efforts you are referring to, we cannot see that you are extending the repayment period for licences from three to ten years. After you have also reduced the tax on advertising, from 20% to 5%, you are now coming with another amendment, according to which all taxes - and the excise duty on advertising - will be calculated at 80% of the value of advertising and not 100% of its value. Only VAT is at 100%. We say that you are giving money to business groups, media owners, while the people are being taxed, and at the same time the General Accounting Report accompanying your amendment says that there will be enough revenue lost by the state. However, I would like to remind you - and this is about my questions - that the abolition of the post office was a resource in the workers' insurance funds. In the post, however, there are the debts of millions in the funds. You, at the same time, have more than doubled the employee's contributions, but health care and supplementary pensions for workers have also been reduced. So we ask you the following question if the debts in the funds are going to be asked by the employer and the state. We suggest it, and if you bring it, we vote. Second, uh...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u81	Ms. Manolakou, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u82	I shall conclude, Mr President. Minister, you have changes in advertising with the new platform. It seems - and we ask you - that you take out public agencies out of the system and leave private people alone. Is this related to the discussions that are taking place to get ERT out of advertising and to belong exclusively to individuals? We ask for clarification, because the agency says so below, but quite potentially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Ms. Manolakou, I think that anyone who wants to see things fragmentally can also draw conclusions to create the impression that he has decided to create. That government was the first to charge the advertising tax. From the advertising tax, the Greek State has collected a hundred million euros, perhaps more. I undertake to search for the latest information from the Independent Public Revenue Authority to see how much we've been collected so far. The hundred million was, I think, until last September. So how do we come and say that this government is exempting television stations from ownership taxes? Why do you say so? Because we're reducing the advertising tax. We're reducing him for the licensed. The licensed will pay the licence fee. Did we ever have a price in this country for the license, and I didn't know? We didn't. They do not favour property, nor is it a solution to advertising upstairs to put 100% tax, the channels do not have revenue, they do not pay workers, they do not have primary production, and then try to compress the banking rules to bolster a loan that will allow them to survive. As for the report by the General Accounting Office of the State, it refers to these arrangements. It does not mention what will happen with the overall licensing package, which produces a positive result for the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u85	You didn't tell me about the new platform.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u86	On the new platform, participation is voluntary and we say potentially that yes, ERT can also participate. There is no way ERT will be withdrawn from the advertising area.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Amyras, would you like Mr. Paulakis to present his own amendment so that you can comment on both of them later?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u88	I'm afraid Mr. Pappas will leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u89	If Mr. Pappas doesn't leave, here you go, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. First of all, I would like to say that the trialogue contract between the advertiser and the advertiser for the issue of the credit is very positive. I'm not talking about it. However, I have two or three points which I would like you to clarify. The first is what the General Accounting Report says about a reduction in public revenues from tax reductions. So, what would this class be that will be lost - let us say it - by taxation? That's the one. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] The second is that I want to think a little bit about this, namely that the change is being made in terms of rewarding, returning the reward and reducing it from 9.9% to 4% in the middle of the year, when there are already signed contracts, contracts and foreign production - I imagine - and with Greek ones. But that's a little bit to worry about. I ask if you are concerned about the decision that this will be imposed in the middle of the year. Also, especially small and medium-sized advertising companies that produce original creative work are the ones that live - to say it this way - or live from 9.9%. Perhaps we should also be concerned about that. Otherwise, I think that where taxation is reduced, something good can be created, but under rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Amyras, the loss will be too small. We don't have the exact amount. But you realise, too, that this is where the rules of transparency laid down for the public will be multiples. The checks will be much more effective. I think it will improve the situation as a whole. With regard to refunds, do you know who only validated 9.9? Only for ERT. Because he couldn't do what others did. I mean, what? Some contracts that were undercover in return. We are now saying that any return here - and I would also like you to note this as a positive one - will be made on the basis of contracts. In other words, we're finishing with orphaned credit invoices. And it's a step, I think, in the right direction. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Minister. Mr Paulakis has the floor for his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. There are two amendments. One is a general number of 1546 and a special 34 on the possibility of extending the term of office of subsidiary doctors recruited through co-financed programmes up to 31-1-2019. There was a consultation with the Ministry of Economy and Development. The funds have been found and we are giving this possibility to some six hundred subsidiary doctors who have been hired - so many - in hospitals throughout the country last year. It is not only about Athens and Thessaloniki mentioned in the exhibition of the General Accounting. The amount it has earned is the total amount. I think that by mistake this seems to be in the General Accounting Recital. They've been hired all over the country. They're work experience programs. It was a very big reinforcement in the hospitals these doctors. It has enabled hospitals to keep their own resources and to hire other subsidiary doctors since a piece was able to be covered by a public investment programme and co-financed. This is where I testify for a piece of legislation. It will be covered by the national or co-financed part, because it only says about the EIF. I should like to announce, on the occasion, that seven hundred eighty-eight permanent doctors were already proclaimed, and today some hundred permanent doctors throughout the country are also being approved for a proclamation. For reasons of public interest and until the completion of these notices and about six hundred and fifty that exist for the next year, we hold this. It has, of course, the possibility of running permanent posts as well as the previous ones. I think it is a very good arrangement that ensures for the next few years those colleagues who have really helped the hospitals very much. The second amendment, with a general number of 1547, and a special number of 35, has two articles. The first article concerns: As you know, we set off the unpaid 10% debt of the EEAS to suppliers with the clawback that these providers had to pay. This was done in the vast majority of providers. It has led to a due date of 2.2 billion EEA debts that we received in October-November 2015. The first year he became a slut. Right now we're about 300-350 million. There was a problem with private clinics. And we're covering this void now. In 2013 they had private audit firms auditing the clinics for submissions submitted to the EEAS. It should therefore be explicitly mentioned in the previous provision of the netting that the result of the control of private audit companies agreed with the clinical and private audit firms has been submitted to the EEAS as unpaid 10% or overpaid, etc., is within the other regulation. That can also be doses. Well, if the clinics are gonna get money, they're gonna take it. If they are to give, they can also give this with doses so that we do not make the reservation massive and face a liquidity problem. That is the first paragraph. The second paragraph - and here is a legislative one - is that we are giving an extension of up to 31-3-2018, not up to 28-2-2018. In the legalisation of hospitals' expenses as far as costs are concerned, and as far as hospitals are concerned, the ongoing tenders have not been completed. We are not in the situation we were a while ago. It is simply because hospitals are very liquid at the moment, based on the funding they received last year and the movement of funds from the EEAS, that we are able to ensure that they do not write due and that they are able to pay suppliers. Supplies shall be made on the basis of the Observatory's prices and be below that and by tendering, but not on the basis of the large tenders under way. A lot of hospitals have. For all the expenditure that has not been incurred, in order not to remain and accumulate debts, once we have been able to obtain liquidity from the market, we are giving the possibility of extending money laundering. These are the two amendments. I also have the legislative proposals for one amendment and the other for the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, I would like to ask a few questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u97	I too, Mr President, would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u98	All right, you'll talk in turn. It was a precedent for my colleague's hand. Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u99	Minister, positively we see them, but we have a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u100	Here we are to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u101	With Amendment No 1546, which is the extension to subsidiary members, we agree and will vote on it. This, of course, shows the need for massive recruitment of doctors and other health sectors, with full and exclusive employment, that is to say, permanent. Now, with regard to the second amendment, on 1547, we are in agreement with Article 1 and we shall vote on it. In the second article, however, the law whose validity is extended provides for reimbursement of expenditure, provided that there are corresponding appropriations in the budgets of health establishments. There is no provision for any funding from the state budget. So our question is what is going to happen with the health units that do not have the corresponding envelope? Will they continue to owe, as a result of possibly creating a problem in the supply of essential materials and services? That is what concerns us and we need an answer. I don't know if you're going to solve this with the legislative improvement you're bringing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u103	Someone would think we've contacted Mrs. Manolakou. Indeed, Minister, the first amendment, the first amendment, 1546, is in the right direction, although it should stop this issue of the assistants - in any case, but it is a social need today and they must exist - because they are also in a peculiar hostage now. It is therefore positive. In the second amendment, I think you should separate the articles. I do not want to say what I have said on several occasions, that they are completely irrelevant and that the Rules of Procedure are forbidden to come to unrelated legislation. However, you cannot bring two articles to an amendment. If you break these things - you can even do it now - we will be able to vote for the first article. The second is a problem, because it is like concealing the legalisation of contracts which have not been legally done. Look at it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u105	And I, Minister, will stay in Article 2. I did not understand the amount of these expenditures up to 31-10-2016. Also, after that date, do we have the birth of new costs? How will the new wave be handled? And I would like to ask you one more question: why not refer to the Honorary? If you'd like, give us clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Well, I'd like to answer a whole question to colleagues. As far as I understand the first amendment, you are all voting for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u108	We're all voting for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u109	I would like to mention that, in your view, you know what the situation is and what is going on. At the moment they are serving 2,850 auxiliary doctors in the health system. Of these, about 500 are the ones that we found when we took over the government in January 2015. These 500 and together with another 170, 180, appointed until November 2015, are in an extension regime ending 31-12-2018. They're the only ones. Of the rest, 600 are in the amendment we are bringing today and have been hired through the ESDP. The others who are staying, i.e. about 1,400 subsidiary doctors, do not come in. In other words, there is no question of prolonging, ending their term of office and reopening. If there's another doctor on the D.N.A. list who's waiting, he's hired. If he doesn't exist, he rejoins himself, since the hospital needs him. Also, Mrs Manolakou, you know that 760 posts were declared last year, in 2016, of which they have been completed and have been serviced around 450. We have activated 650 old crises, which had frozen the appropriations, of which over 300 have been serviced and of the second package of 2 000, so far with the present 100 tenders, which I have said before, have been declared 1,400. We've covered the whole piece of ITH, 180 positions. These are in progress. It's the part of the TLP, which, for the first time, is the mass proclamation. Why am I saying all this? To show that, yes, we have used the issue of subsidiary doctors to directly meet the needs, but we are calling for the first time after many years, massively, over 3,000 permanent doctors in the process of implementing, completing the crises. And we believe that in the new way we have now, we will speed up the process. Unfortunately, there is a long-lived process with the individual crises that are taking place, where it is being unacceptably delayed, indeed, to complete the notice from the moment it opens the post until it takes office. Now, there is this mechanism that we have put, with the electoral platform that has entered and with the single crisis for all the positions of the health region, the same specialty, and by limiting the possibility of putting too many positions into place. Because a large part of the delay was due to the fact that it put ten seats across Greece. And maybe in one sanitary district they'd finish, but wait till he sees what's going to happen to the other. So he did not take office, and that created a chain of delay. Now this is withdrawn in the new way. I'm not saying why you agree. Now listen to me on the issue of money laundering. Let me answer Mrs Manolakou first. There's no such thing as that, Mrs Manolakou. I have said before, but it does not say a number of channels - it is not about you, it is about you, it is about others - which, from morning until night, say the fate of the disaster, that from 31-12-2017 hospitals and health regions in the country have been closed with a EUR 370 million positive surplus. Do you understand? Hospitals and DPOs have money. Why did that happen? For we have fully given what we had budgeted to give from the General Accounting Office of the State. And for the first time, we gave the very recent history of the Greek state 600m euros to the hospitals of the ESS and the ERCY. So they have cash in hospitals. Secondly, we do not go beyond spending. Unfortunately, there is ceiling - this from the memorandum - which is, in total, cumulative, hospitals and the U.S. of eight hundred. That's what we're spending. We're not spending more than that. There was just a situation in many hospitals, which since 2012-not now, since 2012! - they don't have any competitions in place. They gave extensions of contracts over and over. We also formed the EMCDDA, distinguished some things and changed the story with the Observatory a little. That's how it's done. We cannot take over the observatory because this is constantly coming down. In a lot of hospitals we've had contests. Unfortunately, not everything goes at the same rate, not everything goes at the same time. This isn't about the part of the medicine. In the piece of medicine - as you know - prices are specific. There is the sanitary material, reagents, orthopaedic material, etc. However, we do not go beyond the limit of expenditure set as a way out that hospitals can spend. That's for granted. We don't get over this. In fact, we are even lower in 2017 than it was in 2016, precisely because in some hospitals the competitions were completed or bought at prices below the observatory. However, since not all hospitals and OSH contests have been completed, you have the following: While buying at prices below the observatory or expanding some older contracts, etc., you cannot pay because the process has not been completed. Once you've got money in the fund, since you're not gonna get over the expenditure limit that's been in and on the basis of the deal, that's how you can pay without waste. On the contrary. And here the great success, Mr. Amyras and Mr. Athanasios, is as follows: We now - announced Mr. Xanthos some information about uninsured patients who have sought coverage in hospitals or who have been prescribed to the EEA, etc. - with a spending limit, which is above, we have covered another two and a half million people. We have covered two and a half million people with a spending limit of 1.800,000 euros. So, no, it's just that there's no question of spending and spending, but just because of the management, the control that's in place, we've been able to increase - it's not that we didn't give an increase compared to the 1.498 that was the spending limit - to cover the other third of our society that was on the outside. That's the story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Athanasios, you don't sound. Come to the microphone and if you want to get up...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u112	...the non-contractual supplies of hospitals, which is why the Court of Auditors didn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u113	Listen to me. There are some materials for which there are no active competitions. There's a rough competition and there's a check. And there's a price that goes up to the observatory. And on this basis they might get too much out. And that's administrative work. But you know, there will never be - I say that. In the history of the health system that you won't buy any extra-contractuals. There's a new technique that's coming, which you use, you put it, you try it. One of the first things to be dealt with by the EMCDDA is one that does not concern a large number of patients and is expensive materials, because that is the problem you are saying. Cochleal implants, for example, do not concern a large number of patients, but they are expensive. He can't make every trading hospital. Finally, the National Central Procurement Authority must do it and say: "I need two hundred a year, so I take it so." That's what he'll do. Unfortunately, however, we had a long delay in setting up and a great deal of war in forming, because we found a body with 13 staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u114	What do you mind breaking it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Athanasios, we have entered a dialogue procedure without giving the floor. Mr. Polakis, thank you. Since we have entered this procedure, although wrongly, since the speeches made by the rapporteurs and the special speakers need to be completed, let the Deputy Minister Santorinios present his legislative improvement in order to complete this process and continue with the speeches of the special speakers. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u116	Legal improvements, Mr President. I think it is good for at least the other rapporteurs to keep them in mind during their speech. Paragraph 3 is added to Article 8 as follows: ‘The provisions of paragraph 1 shall enter into force on the date of publication of this paragraph in the Official Journal of the Government.’. And you will allow me to take a leap and go to the fifth legislature, in Article 27, to fill in the matter when it comes to it. Article 27 of the draft law shall be replaced by the following: I think that this would clarify the question of the validity of the articles. I proceed with paragraph 1 of Article 11: the words ‘... articles fourth, fourth, fourth, sixth, seventh and eighth of Law 2932...’ shall be replaced by ‘... Articles third and eighth of Law 2932 and 168A of the Public Maritime Law Code, ratified by Decree 187/1973’. Basically, it concerns organic compositions. The words ‘... as defined in Article 68 of the Private Maritime Law Code’ shall be replaced by ‘... as defined in Article 29 of Law 4150/2013 and in Article 68 of the Private Maritime Law Code’. In Article 15, Mr Athanasios, paragraph 5 of the draft law is deleted. And let's close with another observation you've made. At the end of Article 20 of the draft law, paragraph 6 is added as follows...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u117	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Athanasios, you don't sound. Ask each other for a separate reason. Let's follow a process. Let the Minister finish, and then I will give the floor to all those who want to intervene. I won't deny anyone the reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u119	So, with the percentages, we say: At the end of Article 20 of the draft law, paragraph 6 is added as follows: "From the number of people admitted to the school concerned, up to 10% overall is covered by the special categories of candidates in cases aa" and bb based on their order of success in the competition. From the number of test pieces imported into the school concerned, up to 4% are covered by the special category of candidates in the case cc', based on their order of success in the contest. When determining the number corresponding to the percentage of these special categories, the fraction balances shall not be taken into account.’ That's technical. I'm going on: ‘If the percentage is not covered, the number which is outstanding shall be completed by the candidates for the general category. The use of the right to import into schools of LGBT from those subject to one of the categories of cases (a) to (b) shall be made for only one of these schools. If someone introduces this right into a school. is not entitled to use the same right in another school.’; I think that the question of the quotas you mentioned, Mr Athanasios. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u121	Will you table further amendments, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u123	Here, Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u124	In paragraph 4 of Article 15, are you going to make some kind of legislative improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u126	Here you go, Mr. Armachyn, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u127	Let the Minister explain when he will talk about accepting or not accepting amendments...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u128	After the rapporteurs and special speakers have been completed, the Minister will also take the floor and be placed on the amendments. The floor is given by the Special Speaker of the Association of Centres, Mr Dimitrios Kavalellas, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again the government, on the pretext of incorporating a directive, has again found the opportunity to go through more than a dozen, almost a dozen articles on unrelated issues, and two or three unnecessarily important amendments, for which - as we hear each other each other - we are again listening to the same tape, that they are supposed to be voted on today because it is urgent, are very serious issues. This reduces our democracy and this is a very serious matter. This House has a job to serve, and in this way it reduces the value of the work provided within the House. To avoid misunderstanding that I am making a sterile opposition, I appreciate the ministers present today. I consider Mr Kurublis to be the most successful, perhaps, Minister of the Ministry in question. He's working hard, he's merciful. He's proved to be really interesting. However, there are issues which need to be addressed, some of which we have noticed are different from our understanding. For example, if those responsible who are working on these amendments, which were brought to them at the last minute, could have brought them in beforehand, we could know what is going on and these issues would have been discussed in a bill earlier. For example, the incorporation of Directive 1774/2015 could have taken place earlier. It has been preferable to ignore Article 8 thereof, which provides for the end date of 10 October 2017 and there is a complete indifference for at least one semester. In addition to the indifference, however, there is also evidence of dubiousness scattered in the draft law, which forced us to take a stand on the previous committees, because, otherwise, the need for this directive is a given one. It shall ensure that the provisions of labour law and seafarers are extended to Union level, now providing a little more enhanced protection in the event of collective redundancies, and helping to strengthen the attractiveness of the maritime profession. But here we must pay great attention to avoiding flags of convenience. Another paradox is the eruption of articles and laws that the government majority itself had just voted a few months ago. I refer to Law 4504/2017, with fourteen provisions that are amended or repealed and to Law 4389/2016 with five provisions. So must someone answer us here when the authorities were right: then or today? For L.4389/2016, L.4389/2016 is a Memorandum Law and has not been clarified how we can exceed it if the Ministry has secured permission from the Troika to make changes to it. A characteristic example is Article 13, which deals with the control of statements of property by the persons in charge of the Port Authority and the Hellenic Coast Guard. By re-changing the law two more prosecutors will carry out audit tasks. One will be responsible for the uniform staff, and the other will be responsible for the civilian staff. That sounds to us as a positive one, because on several occasions, the President of the Union of Centres and Members have called for control everywhere before any mistakes can be made, for example, in supplies. After all, even in the report on the assessment of the consequences of the draft law, and on page 9 of this, a direct admission is made to a problem that has already been created by overlooking relevant transitional arrangements. The same problems apply to the annual subsistence allowance provided for in Article 14 of the EUR 600, which is very little, but, in any case, that is what was given to the internal students of the Navy academies and now assigned to the other students of the academy, if they meet the same criteria. That's all right, that's all. We will agree that we must support academic students with funds. The problem is that the funds spent on these allowances come from the Public Investment Programme in accordance with paragraph 3 of that Article. So we in the Central Association have no objections to this allowance, but please tell us what public investment is served by such benefits, which only as election campaigns are heard. Because according to what is stated on the website of the General Secretariat of the Investment Secretariat, public investment is considered to be all fixed, intangible - I stress - public investment activities. How the feeding benefits are made to baptise public investment and contribute to the country's development perspective, obviously only you know. You could find something else to support this good mood and good intention. Apart from this, complaints were made at the committee meeting that even this small allowance is granted whenever the responsible remembers, with frequent delays of months. That's a classic case. And if we are looking for a third serious sluggishness - I would say - to go to paragraph 1 of Article 20 for the introduction of the School of Test Points of the Port Authority, the Port Penitentiary School in the system of pan-Hellenic examinations. This possibility is lost this year due to the delay in the Ministry's legislation. That's how opportunities get lost. I'm going to give you a few more remarks. Articles 6,7.8 states that we agree, as additional protections are provided in relation to the current situation, as well as to Article 11, which describes the cases of exemption from collective redundancies, such as for ships carrying seasonal inland waterways necessary for the smooth island interconnection. Furthermore, for the proposed regulation in paragraph 4 of Article 15 concerning the compulsory secondment of staff by the Port Regulatory Authority for the Port House by way of derogation from the rules laid down in the Staff Code and for five years, we naturally have objections. We are obliged to comment negatively on the fact that it can only take place by decision of the Minister, ignoring the natural leadership of the Port House. We would prefer there to be a more good cooperation between the Lithuanian leadership and the Ministry's leadership. After all, there is a reference to this in the report by the Scientific Office of the Parliament in this connection, in fact, in an appeal for reasons of unconstitutionality. I should also like to pay tribute to the important work carried out by the representatives of the Port Authority and the Greek Coast Guard. They are doing business under adverse conditions, they have a huge coastline, they are making superhuman efforts that meet the increased protection requirements of our maritime borders, and they offer, as far as possible, services of every type, including rescue of immigrants, refugees, who daily need this need. Needs are enormous in this area. I would therefore ask the Minister to ensure that staff are not sought from these first-line combat services, in order to cover the gaps in retardation or bureaucracy or retardation. Let us not forget that organic positions following the Memorandum Requirements have been reduced from 11 000 to only eight thousand executives - as has been said in committee - which has obviously affected the operation of these bodies, but which has certainly benefited the budget in cash. After all, according to the Military Criminal Code, senior officials have the status of military and it is important that they should not be involved in Rusfetological processes. We are in a positive position for social reasons towards paragraph 5 of the same article, Article 20 which we are now discussing. It provides exceptionally for the introduction to schools of the Port Body and the ELATC for multitude, three-tier and for their children, for children of disabled and war victims, for children of disabled or victims of peaceful periods of strains of the Port Body and ELATC, for children of deceased or disabled military service during the execution of an orderly service, for individuals at risk of their life have actively participated in the operations of the Port Body. Furthermore, for Article 24, namely the proposed provision in paragraph 1, which replaces Article 157 of the Code of Public Maritime Law, although we have serious reservations, we are in a positive way, because we consider rationalisation and reduction of fines to promote their collection. On the one hand, the transaction has shown that unthinkable fines are never collected and on the other hand promotes the logic of responsibility. In other words, when fines are reduced, we are making citizens more responsible. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as our vote on the draft law is concerned, unfortunately the many wrangling arrangements and regulations which I personally could say unnecessarily are once again forcing us to vote'residents' despite what the directive contains, which strengthens the sense of safety for seafarers and the protection of their rights. As for the amendments with general numbers 1546,1547,1548 and experts 34, 35 and 36 respectively, as I said before, we are negative because they are completely irrelevant to the draft law and certainly must not intrude provisions incorporating the European directive. Here I would like to ask the people concerned and water to put their wine, and the workers and the shipowners and the government, because I fear that there will be no more workers in this sector if, let us say, the shipowners take their boats and leave to a foreign flag. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Cavadela. Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. I will not sit because I have exhausted the bill, we have discussed it so many times, I have told you all the issues that I wanted to clarify and most of us have clarified today. Therefore, I will tell you first of all that it is a good thing that this incorporation and adaptation into our national law of the European directives is positive. They broaden the existing protection of seafarers and set clear rules in the negotiations between representatives of seafarers and employers. I consider the provision of Article 3 very positive for the rationalisation of the trade union function and the representatives of the IMO to be very positive, which should take into account the opinion of their primary organisations. It is also necessary to ensure and ensure that the maritime trade union representative is able to exercise his duties without prejudice. It is also very important in Article 4 that definitions of collective redundancies are provided and that ways can or cannot be done are provided, namely that they cannot be done. Also positive are the provision of and the consultation procedure for Article 5. I shall omit several articles so that I do not repeat what I have said in the committees. We also consider it very important that the protection and maintenance of workers' rights should be provided in the event of a ship being transferred to a Greek register or in the event of a transfer of an undertaking or part thereof to a European Union country. In other words, it creates a maritime protection regime within the European Union and recommends the unification of shipping rules within the European Union. After all, I think that is a fundamental concern for this directive. I have also told you about Article 13, that I agree that the statements made by the representatives of the Port Authority and the Greek Coast Guard should also be made by the ELAS Home Affairs Directorate. They have an experience. I know this may cause various reactions, but it's good to go on. That is how this article should be voted on. We'll vote for it. I'm coming to Article 15 for the Port Regulatory Authority. A positive provision for the introduction of the arbitration institution. I have asked, Mr Kurubli, at the last sitting if the RAL has submitted its annual report. We would like to have it, or, in any case, to have a meeting, so that you could let us know or send it to us. Well, I'd be very interested to see what ral has done last year. Also, in Article 15(4), I do not agree on the possibility of seconding RAL civil and military personnel of the Ministry of Shipping. The needs of the Port Corps are increased right now, and I would say that perhaps we should rethink this. In Article 16(1), I would put a title, if I were 'published': 'Look, Katrugale, how the work is done, how the contributions are reduced'. But here remains the question, ladies and gentlemen, where will the loss of EUR 246 000 per year for the fund be replaced? I would like to hear that. It is of greater importance than just talking about this fund. In Article 21, I consider it positive to extend the recruitment criteria for health specialists and from the Military School of Officials and from private doctors, dentists, psychologists, graduates up to thirty-eight years old. I am pleased and counting on Article 27, Mr Santorinier, that you have spoken to us and the clarifications of the retrospectiveness you have told us that it cannot come up, I imagine, in the future the issue of unconstitutionality, to go insult this article. I don't think it'll happen. I shall therefore conclude by saying that we shall be voting in favour. I hope it was worth the four minutes I was here waiting for these last clarifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much to Mr Amyras and to the economy in time. The position of the rapporteurs and the special speakers has been completed and we are moving on to the list of speakers. There are two written speakers, Mrs Megalo-Economics and Mr Placiotakis. Mr Pallis has also asked for the floor to develop an amendment he has tabled. We will proceed with the parliamentary representatives and the Minister will be posted afterwards. Mrs. Big Economics, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Ministers, we have heard a lot about this bill. In the end, I think it is a bill bringing about an institutional framework that should have been in place a long time ago for seafarers, because this profession has too many peculiarities. A new institutional framework, which recognises the specific features of the maritime profession and preserves the action of shipowners and shipowners. Also, a key positive element of the bill is the provision of more comprehensive protection to seafarers in cases of planned group redundancies. It's Articles 4 to 8. Not only is the concept of group dismissal specialised, but the obligation of shipowners or shipowners to consult the representatives of seafarers is established in a clear and clear way when they intend to dismiss the shipowners or shipowners. The aim of the consultations is to avoid or even reduce collective redundancies. The whole procedure shall be under the control of the CEN, the Council of Merchant Navy and the notification of any operation to it by shipowners and shipowners no longer have the power to operate unfairly or willingly, without being subject to general control and restrictions on the protection of the labour force. It also provides for the immediate implementation of those laid down in the draft law, without the need for further regulatory provisions and regulations to be adopted. In Article 5(4), a provision of a strong social character in the context of the above-mentioned consultations with a view to collective redundancies, the shipowner or shipowner concerned must set a social plan for the redundancies of seafarers, i.e. in order to alleviate the effects of dismissal and the possibility of their reintegration into the labour market or subsequent reintegration. Basic, from the point of view of labour law, is the recognition of protection according to that of trade unions for members of the EDPS, a Special Negotiating Group and the ERC, a European Works Council, if they are crew members, but also for workers' representatives. I also think it is worth mentioning that it is Article 23, which now introduces the grading recognition - which until now was simply a wage recognition - of the five-year obligation service to the Armed Forces for the Port Guard Testing School. Therefore, from the first provisions of the draft law in question, the right not only to inform and consult but also to ensure fair working conditions and the safeguarding of workers in seafarers is guaranteed. I would also like to refer to the amendment tabled on 29-3-2018 with a general number of 1548 and a specialist of 36 of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, which promotes transparency in trade between SMEs, advertisers and advertisers. This amendment succeeds in combating tax evasion in the context of trade, while at the same time modernising the system of operation between them. I shall mention a simple example of regulation in the context of this amendment. As regards the issue of the invoice concerned and in accordance with the principle of equal treatment of the parties, either the invoice is issued in the name of the advertiser or in the name of the advertisers, there is no longer a discount on the nominal price. Until first there was one -20% if the discount was made in the name of the advertiser. To conclude, this is a bill that brings about in a direct way, that is to say, without having to go into the logic of issuing infinite decrees and regulations, reorganisation in the field of private maritime enterprises and the preservation of maritime workers, as against the employer, with regulations such as those concerning collective redundancies, which should already be the norm for a pioneer in the field of shipping, such as Greece. Moreover, the constantly changing and evolving working environment of seafarers, as is the case with all working environments, must now mobilize us to ensure that the rights, especially those of seafarers, are guaranteed in such a sensitive working system. Thank you and good Easter to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Ms. Big Housekeeper, and for the economy in time. Mr. Placiotakis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret to note that today's practice, which actually distorts the parliamentary procedure, is not an accident, but is a common practice for all ministries and all the ministers of today's government, who are doing what? While we have a European directive incorporating into national law and it should be an autonomous and comprehensive draft law, which serves and helps the interests and wider functioning of commercial shipping, we have the incorporation of the European directive into national law, within another bill, which consists of scattered provisions, which many times amend provisions that we have just adopted four months ago. And that is what you say, Minister, good, good legislative practice. Look, all this obviously distorts the quality of democracy and clearly works against both legislative and political practice. On the substance of the matter now, the Government is actually trying to withdraw governmental responsibilities on unemployment, since the Council of Commerce - we want to note that it was set up in 1955 - an instrument which was advisory on maritime matters and an instrument which was proposed for seagoing seagoing podium, you are currently bringing it into the role of the Ombudsman. Obviously this institution has no competence at all, nor can it validate administrative penalties. We also want to point out that you are amending the legislative provisions of Law 4504/2017- that is only four months ago - and while you were bound by this legislation to issue more than ten presidential decrees and more than twenty regulatory ministerial decisions, you have not adopted any at all. And what are you doing? First of all, you announced that you will grant a 600 euro feeding allowance for internal students. Now, of course, you're expanding it. Be careful, expand something that you haven't given yet. This is a global originality. You also don't tell us how much this money is and where you're going to find it. Is it gonna be an EDP? Will they be co-financed projects? Is it from PNE? PNE certainly doesn't have any money. Because if the PNE had money, it could of course be comfortable to make changes and corrections to the highest schools in the Merchant Navy. Also under Article 15, you are degrading the institution of the Headquarters of the Port House. Be careful, see, the party appointed commander to the Port Regulatory Authority will be able, by suggesting to the relevant Minister, bypassing the natural leadership of the Port Corps, to extract for five years from the Port Corps officers. Minister, there's something going on here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u136	How many?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u137	The party-appointed commander of the Port Regulatory Authority cannot circumvent a military-organised body, such as the Port Body. You completely ignore the Chief of the Port Corps. And here, you're asking me questions. Is there a problem with the military leadership of the Port Corps? Because, if there is, things here are serious. We cannot, at the present stage, have very strong challenges in the eastern Aegean, at the time the Port Authority's armament programme, more than 200 million euros, move forward quickly. Please give us a clear answer on this matter. I also told the committee about the TASS: it is the last and the most prestigious. So - if you want - effective proof you show to the strains of the Port Body and the human factor. Now let's go to Article 18.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u138	Aren't you going to say anything about Article 17?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u139	I'll tell you at the end of Article 17. I'll tell you everything. Don't worry. The adoption of the digital signature for the issue of the government certificates of Greek ships also requires that such a digital infrastructure be provided in the Maritime Inspection. The question is: Is there an infrastructure for digital compliance with the dossiers and, in particular, with the certificates of all Greek ships issued by the classification societies? Could you inform us, Mr Kurubli, why the presidential decree on the process of certifying the inspectors' competence, the organisation and functioning of the School of Inspectors has not been issued? When and by what process will inspectors be certified? You had put in the previous law that on 29-3-2018 the Presidential Decree will be issued. Now 29 March 2018 has expired.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u140	We're on the edge.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u141	Are there any issues of the legality of uncertified inspectors? Now for Article 20 I told you, I told you, and then, that you are sketchyly legislating, that you have no budgets, that you do not have a school regulation. What are you doing now? With Law 4507 - be careful to see a serious government - you were supposed to define the terms and conditions for the integration of the three productive schools of the Port Authority into the higher and higher level of education and you had even set a deadline of two months. And what are you doing here today? Without study, without any design, the three productive schools make them two. And I ask you: has the Ministry of Education been informed? Since when will all these changes apply? How many years will the school be in these productive schools? Be careful, until the presidential decrees come out, and until the first officers graduate from the productive schools, we'll need governors, we'll need officers. Why don't you put a transitional provision so that you can regulate all these issues? And because you're nervous about Article 17, I'm telling you that this arrangement is incomplete. Mr Kurublis, finally legislate on the basis of a specific plan for yachting. I told you last time. Adopt institutional frameworks of other European countries. You don't want this. You fully integrate the cabotage.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u142	Where do you get that information from?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u143	I tell you that Greece must and must become the center of the world yochting. So what does that mean? We also want Greek-flagged vessels and Community-flagged vessels and non-Community vessels. What does that mean? I'm making you a suggestion here. Adopt institutional frameworks...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u144	Paying black?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u145	I'll answer you, don't worry. I'll give you a suggestion. There is an institutional framework in force in other European countries. So what? For third flag ships, take over thirty-five meters of ships, for example, which want to come to make fares for fifteen days in the country, under the present conditions and under the conditions you have set, these ships...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u146	Do they pay or don't they pay?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u147	Let me finish. I'll propose to you. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u148	Mr Plakkatakis, you have opened the debate and you have to finish because you are at nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u149	It's very important what I'm telling you. Put a condition, over thirty-five meters, forty meters. And be careful, these ships, these yachts, are the kind of quality tourism we want. You can charge VAT on the fares. So a sixty-foot boat for a fare of 500,000 euros a week will have a VAT of 60,000 euros. Do you know many activities having VAT, collecting 60,000 euros a week? You won't want these ships? If you don't want them to go to France, they'll go to Croatia, they'll go to Italy. And be careful, such a ship coming from Italy, passing to Greece, can neither board nor disembark visitors. It can, however, dismantle them all in Turkey. Do you want this, Mr. Curublis? What am I telling you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u150	What do we do with the arrangement?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u151	What are you doing? You don't do anything. You are sending these vessels to Albania, Montenegro, Italy, France, Croatia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u152	Do you want to take Albania to Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u153	You don't know that stuff. I made a specific suggestion to you. If you don't want these ships in Greece, they'll just leave. And with these vessels you don't only have VAT on freight, you have also on fuel, you have also on fuel, you have on agents, you also have a whole lot of other revenues that you don't want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u154	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u155	And I propose to you this: he wants a ship like this to come to our country tomorrow morning for a fare for fifteen days. Under the conditions you set, he's not coming. You don't want this ship? Don't you want that kind of expense?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Colleague, you've reached eleven minutes. Please, please, get it done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u157	And I conclude by saying that because we are responsible for political power, we will support the articles on the transposition of the European directive, but I want you to understand that this kind of practice cannot continue. And you must also realize, Mr Kurubli, that you are leading a very important ministry. And because the issues of shipping are national issues, and shipping is a national plan - of course, we are still waiting for your plan, from the narratives and the stories, now two years' old accounts and stories we are hearing - get serious and consistently address the issue of commercial shipping. We should also be aware that any positive initiatives in seriousness will contribute, as I have already made a concrete proposal to you today. Bring this proposal and we know that as a New Democracy we will support it. Otherwise, you will be tempted that you are chasing illegal fares, that you do not want such ships in the country, but in the meantime Greece will lose valuable resources that it so much needs them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u158	Thank you. Here, Mr Pallie, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your amendment to proceed with Mr Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u159	I would like in advance to apologise to colleagues from the other parties for the delay in tabling the amendment. And I would ask you to consider the amendment. On the substance of the matter is Amendment No 1550. It concerns the completion of a third paragraph of Article 8 of Law 2932/2001, as amended by Article 50 of Law 4331/2015. It relates to the repayment of any sums due to seafarers who are in the process of reorganisation or who have been declared discounted by failing their guarantee letters. The Minister, the Ministry is aware of the case. The present situation concerns one company, the Lesvos Maritime Company. It is another line from the destruction of a robust folk based company from the past decades. I would ask colleagues in advance to read the amendment and to support it, in order to close a line, such as Mr Athanasios, we would ask that we close another hole in a catastrophe in a robust popular base company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr. Palley.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u161	Is the Minister going to accept her?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u163	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u164	Minister, please accept the amendment because it is fair. After all, you have made another similar acceptance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, we will also support it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u166	Parliamentary representatives will now speak in turn. First Mr. Loverdos will speak. Then Mr. Kefaliannis has asked for the floor. Mr. Xydakis is likely to follow the ministers to complete the process. Of course, those of us who want to be seconded. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by invoking the position of colleagues from Georgios - Dimitrios Karras and Georgios Amyras, with whom I fully agree. I would like to add a remark after seeing the legislative improvements to the draft law, which is enough. As far as I can see, however - I do not know if you have tabled another document and I have not seen it - you have not made any intervention in Article 15(4). Ladies and gentlemen, for Article 15(4), the Scientific Studies Directorate observes that the Government and Parliament in 2016 amended Article 68 of the Staff Code, changed it and the changes made by them violated it by Article 15(4), as regards the issue of the mobility of civil servants, mild mobility, mainly in the form of distractions. This, because it gives rise to staff and staff issues, is not likely to be offended. And because there's no way that he won't be offended, see it again, you still have time to make the right change. The Scientific Studies Directorate with more than two pages of comments, where it also records the whole of your intervention in 2016, makes the relevant note. You need to see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u168	We should drop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u169	Look at it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is neither pleasant nor desirable to confirm unfavourable crises and remarks made by a politician. It is much more constructive to disprove when it predicts or appreciates something, especially if such assessments and forecasts, for anyone at risk, concern the course and future of their country. And I'm explaining. In the newspaper ‘TASE’ on June 3, 2017, in my relevant intervention, I had called Greece ‘an ungoverned state’. Today, after closing the three years of governance of SYRIZA - ANEL and going for the first half of 2018, no reasonable citizen, no matter how friendly his attitude to the government, can see this particular characterisation. It is a tragic situation, ladies and gentlemen, which leads to this conclusion, 'ungovernable state', because in foreign policy matters the claims of SYRIZA - ANEL, of the present co-government, which sometimes has schizophrenic dimensions, do not mislead me about the term, are as follows: on the same day one of the Ministry says 'a' and the other says 'e'. The same day! Ministers from these two ministries. But these situations also lead to deadlocks in the end. Last night, the Maximos Mansion issued a statement of disapproval on the Prime Minister's promises of handing over the eight Turkish officers. We hope that this denial will be well founded, and hopefully so, even though the Turkish President and Greece have made such a reference on his visit. And I remind you of this visit, because in this very Chamber the Minister for Foreign Affairs defended the designation of that visit as a so-called historic one. And after that visit - fiasco every day, every week something more and more is done. You were triumphant, but you didn't get verified under any circumstances. We've had opposite results. Nor can we overlook what happened the other day, following the Conference in Varna, where the Greek Government correctly raised the issues of Turkish provocativeness. I remember that because that morning, ladies and gentlemen, I had an obligation in eight hours to speak publicly from all seven I was informed and I saw that the information given by the Maximos Mansion - because pro-government journalists were saying - was that the release of the two soldiers, which was not done. On the same day the competent court in Turkey decided the opposite. However, after that intervention by the Greek Government correctly at this conference, we had forty violations of Turkish fighter aircraft the next day, while on Friday, according to the General Staff, there were twenty-seven violations of national airspace. That's about defence issues. In our foreign policy, one cannot overlook the constant existence of bilingualism and intra-government bilingualism on the FYROM issue. These are the essential examples of foreign and defence policy that led me and led us to characterise the country as an 'government state'. Let's go to internal matters. We have the problem of Thessaloniki. Five whole days people said water and a government factor was not appreciated to resign. In 2018, the co-chairman remains without water supply for so many days and the government and the government, appointed by the government there, are indifferent. They don't care, even though they showed incompetence and eventually analgesia. Why am I saying that? I say it because in 2014 you were against privatization of EMSDDA with a central slogan "water is a public good and not a merchandise". That's what you said in 2014. What did you then do about public property? A total of no one's forgotten. However, you were very opposition to this and said that you would also call a referendum on it, which, of course, you have forgotten. Important servants of the public interest and of public goods have finally emerged. No resignation for the dozens dead in Mandra. No resignation on so many other issues. Listen to one more thing. No resignation for the deaths of immigrants. This is where you said we were choking them. So you told us that we drown them, that the Samara government drowns them, that Venizelos drowns them. This is what you told us about the previous government. Here in the House you were talking about this. And you're still talking about it after the 2015 government change. You're the ones that happen to you, that's what's going on, and no one's given up so far. And I still wanted to say it for a long time, but it gave me the opportunity, unfortunately, of the first-year student of the Alexandroupolis Medical School who killed herself and indeed her teacher at the university, then examined her to find out the causes of death. What I am bringing to mind and makes me tell you today is this: Do you remember what you were saying about suicides over the previous government of Samara - Venizelos and the government of Papademos and the government of Papandreou? Do you remember them? Do you remember asking us to resign? Do you remember registering people's suicides in our own negative actions? Did you report several times for thousands of suicides? You used to say that every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u170	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Tsipras in that notorious exhibition of Thessaloniki of 2014 said: "The tax raid is threatening" - who now says that, who has not left a tax - "instantly even the biological existence of taxpayers", invoking a number of suicides. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, when you exercise rule, the concept of responsibility gains special weight, much more specific weight than when you are opposition. And when something goes wrong, you have to take responsibility for it in full. And resignation is a form of misrecognition -- the simple apology doesn't count - and the risk of responsibility being assumed by the mistakes you made. This is the legality of the parliamentary culture. But all this applies to others. When they apply to you, in relation to your love for authority, others apply yours, the data of an ungulate state. And I would add, to conclude my criticism, that even on an issue that unites, such as sport, your promise that you will strike violence, not only did not lead to anything as a result, but with football grexit, the country is at risk on your days where the most intense episodes in football occurred. Instead of ruling, you have a leader, a prime minister, who in his party audiences - I stress the latter - for the development of Thessaloniki with water cut and two and a half thousand policemen on the road to do this, he has once again split and created. As he became Prime Minister, he tries to remain in power. To finish, I cannot - and I do not imagine the other Members of Parliament who are in agreement and opposition - not to make a reference to the issue of clean exit. You have been sucking our minds for months and you have made your communication policy a tip that we will have the clear exit, supposedly in the summer, where we will be finally going out of this crisis. And yet again, as regards the Prime Minister's words and communication policy, which continues to be pluralised, it is as if this political disease is still in his blood. I close, ladies and gentlemen, with this: In the last few days we have heard many of those who say that we as a Change Movement, as a PASOK, as a Democratic Consortium, all the manifestations of our attempt to unite the area of the centre and the centre-left, supposedly, have come to a transaction with you with some purposes. I want here today at the National Representation to be clear as far as you are concerned with government MPs. I would point out and stress that we are not going to give any alibis to justify your mistakes and omissions, your frauds and your frauds to the Greek people. In us you will not find any convenient escorts or useful idiots. But above all, I would like to assure the executives, members, friends and friends of the centre and the centre-left, who hope in us and increase our powers, that our position is firm. The twin SYRIZA - ANEL has been completely detrimental to the country and any political area that respects itself cannot trade with this toxic political coexistence. The Change Movement has completely separated its place from the scrubs of history. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition, when you do it consistently and are aware of the mandate given to you by the people, not to govern, but to conduct themselves, must be made in a cruel way, but fair, without insulting people, without digging the pit, as you do. This leads us to have the acidity that we should have as a party of counter-population. But this does not prevent me from wishing you a good Great Week and a good Resurrection.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. The speech has been made by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Kourublis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I turn to the substance of the matter, I would like to respond to a position by Mr Carras and say to him: Mr Carras, take the initiative. I have submitted to the committee for a long time the draft for discussion in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. We shall dare attempt in a spirit of understanding with all parties so that there will be a national maritime policy. Because shipping is an area that Greece can claim with certainty that it is first. This is due to the demonium and the creativity of the equipment, but also to the participation and support of Greek shipping. I invite you and the parties separately and all of you to come to the Ministry to have an open debate on an early morning, which will be interesting and useful to everyone. However, I have not seen this as an initiative from anyone, to be informed. Now, to answer the previous parliamentary representative, Mr. Loverdos. He referred to all issues of government policy, and I imagine Mr Xydakis will take over. Firstly, I would just like to say that it would be a good thing if we were not to become prophets, because we might be disproved. Secondly, I would like to say that saying that representing a space is also a little arrogant. Society has a crisis to judge who represents it. And society in the last elections, this society we are talking about, on the centre-left, supported Alexis Tsipras. Let's make a little patience in the 2019 elections to see. But, my dear Mr. Loverdo, because you're very good in history, keep in mind what happened to the Center Association. Those who dared to think about co-operation with the Right have paid the epidemic. From that point on, everyone assumes their responsibilities. So let us not talk about the stress of our retirement policy, but about greater realism. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing is the result of consultation, which has taken place at European level, with all the social actors involved in shipping. This directive complements the great gap that existed over time in the work of seafarers, shipping workers. And it also comes to supplement, Mrs Manolakos, initiatives by this government, which, by Article 78 of Law 4504 banned a ship which owes wages to workers, which had never been institutionalised. So is Article 139, which carries the institutional framework, which applies to land, undeclared work and at sea. Has it ever happened before? Has such a provision ever been made for undeclared work at sea? Has a government dared it? The same is true of Article 144, which, for the first time - in order to provide quality and efficiency for the control of the services of the Port Authority - embedded and institutionalised the possibility for local associations to participate in the audit committees as to whether labour legislation is being respected. And you are now coming to ask us what we are doing and tell us that we are serving Employers and armaments? That government? Have you not asked the mayors and districts of the Aegean and Ionian, what has happened all these years, in the past, with the barren lines? Where'd the Greek people's money go all these years? Who did all these years serve the money? Shipowners or the Aegean society? Ask, gentlemen, Mayor Kythera to tell you what was going on with this ship, how much money was paid -50 million - on that ship, which every ten days stopped and did not work and suffering people! So ask the mayors and the districtlors. Ask the Mayors of Oinousses, Fishes, Ithaca and all the small islands you have forgotten. Are you coming now and telling us all of a sudden that we are serving the work force? On the contrary, we are establishing and protecting maritime work in a very specific way. That is why you saw, when the representative of the employer came here, who was about to join him and whether he was against the policy of the Ministry and the specific institutionalisation. That's the reality. As much has been said, I think it is understandable that workers' participation with this directive and compulsory information and the CSR are being guaranteed. And a number of provisions that really protect the organised composition of the ship.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u174	Minister, if I remember the ship in Kythera well, Mr. Dr. Dritsas renewed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Athanasios, the Minister speaks. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u176	I know the route renewed it...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u177	Get Mr. Mayor, Mr. Athanasios to tell you. Because what I'm saying, the mayor told me and you know very well that he's politically positioned. I'll tell you more, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u178	Minister, I know because I've been watching the barren lines...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Athanasios, we're not having a dialogue right now. I haven't given you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u180	This particular ship didn't dare to withdraw it, which was a rag, a dog-sucker.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u181	Ask Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u182	Although it took fifty million of the barren lines, all this year they didn't put a screw on the ship, and these are words of Mayor Kythera, who I imagine you know where they are political. Don't cause me, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u183	I don't challenge it. We have arguments...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u184	You're causing me. Ask the mayor and make a statement about what I said, of course. Let's go to the bill now. Article 14 has been a lot of talk. Yes, sir. What did you do three, four, five years ago? You also have the courage - let me speak - to refer to this attempt. Yes, gentlemen, he didn't have any money for the Ministry to regulate the issue of child feeding. You abandoned public education. You abandoned her. You abolished two hundred of two hundred seventy permanent posts. Did you or didn't you? You've done away with feeding. You saved the Greek economy when you voted as Members of the Greek Parliament - and indeed of the islands - the abolition of feedingstuffs, a sum of one and a half million. That's what you did to the children from the most popular families. You have responded, gentlemen, from Financial Program 713 every concept of equipment. Mr. Plakliotakis, to listen to you lamentable, can you stand up after my speech and tell me how many years you had to give me a euro for equipment at the Naval Education School of Chania? Get up then tell me. How much money is being implemented right now? Two and a half million.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u185	You share false promises.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u186	Two and a half million are currently being implemented in a competitive process. Call Mr. Arnautakis to tell you. That's what's going on in all schools. What did we do? We made an effort to find some money, because we really felt hard that these kids had no food. Tell me: Six hundred euros? Of course it's too little, but we won't stay there. I already tell you that we are in agreement with the Ministry of Economy and that money will be provided from the European programme, from European cofinancing, and I believe that the sum of EUR 600, Mr Athanasios, who was anxious, will reach 1500 euros. It'll be from two sources and from the EDP. Because you said the PPC is for investment, I'll say that this is investment too. Naval education is an investment, a huge investment. By the way, you will allow me to tell you that Greece, with the work we are doing now in upgrading this sector, will be able to claim a significant share of the needs that will arise over the next ten years for a hundred thousand posts of captains and engineers. Greece carries great, timeless good-looking captains and engineers. I would like to tell you here that we have also tabled a governmental, ministerial amendment - which I believe you will vote on all - that we are creating a hundred new permanent staff seats in maritime education schools. Inside them we will also create the Kalymnos Naval Education School. At the same time, in order to be able to operate the schools until we have a permanent staff - as we have called for some twenty other posts that have been vacant from retirement and one post as soon as we evacuate it, because we want to upgrade the sector - we have received two hundred ninety-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-letter teachers. These are a few of what we have done for the maritime education sector. So in Article 14 there is an attempt to restore a great injustice you have done and you did not have the courage to say that it was your fault. It's bravery in politics to say something like that. Here, when you decided and abolished the feeding, you did not come out to tell the Greek people, these children, that it was wrong. I do not think you were interested in public education because it was not that money that the troika forced you to cut off. Neither the troika nor the arrangements nor nothing with the 2 million would be saved. You just didn't care. You were interested in private education going. But can I tell you something? You have not even had this courage, the politics, to say 'yes, we want to take education to the private sector'. You wanted to, but you didn't say so, you didn't dare tell the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u187	What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u188	We upgrade public education. That's what we're doing. You've never been to schools. Now Mr. Plackotakis has gone. Ask him if he's going out to disobey me if he went back to school like that again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u189	I've been there many times before...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u190	Well, you've gone! You've never been!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u191	You've never dealt with shipping issues. Now you're busy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Plakatakis, you don't sound. Minister, don't challenge them, because they're answering and they're not listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u193	Let's go down. With regard to Article 15, I would like to say to Mr Loverdos, who made an observation, that is, the provision as it stands, relates primarily to the port. The port is not part of mobility. It's only three seats. Now can I say what was going on in the port all these years? Mr. Athanasios, can you tell me how many seconded people were from Mytilini's unit by 2015? Can you tell me how many of them were from Lemnos or Saint Efstratios to see what was going on? Not to tell you about Chios, Kos, Rhodes. Half the seats were empty and the other half were seconded to Athens and here and there. Now they're covered, and now, as many people as covered, they all serve there. Now that's what happened and you've made the observation for us, too. I'll talk about Article 16. I think he's restored a loose end. And because Mr Amyras asked - if I am not mistaken - how to cover this money, which is around 300 thousand, I have to say that the maturation and growth through the maturation that is being done will increase and participation and that is where they will be covered. It's a fund that works in this context. Article 17. Ladies and gentlemen, we have dared this article to completely open the yacht market. For we are now being blamed by Mr Placiotakis - I do not want to say a popular proverb - who does not say why they had not done so all these years. The market did not function for third-country big yachts or operated in black. I also heard a spokesman or some radio saying that we were kicking out the ships in Albania and Turkey the day before yesterday. We, gentlemen, do not want to make Greece Albania or Turkey or Montenegro, because you know how the system works there. Here we have thousands of tourist boats, recreational. Ask Mr. Vernico if you don't ask me. Ask Mr. Steliot and all these people. Shall we open the market to the detriment of Greek pleasure boats? Greek pleasure boats don't only pay VAT, pay tax, work Greek seafarers, who pay NAT. What do we have to do? We need to open the market. We are therefore abolishing the limit. Mrs Manolakou, if you are here, the limit of twelve people is not about safety, it is about the participation of people travelling with these vessels. So far it was not allowed to be under twelve members who made tourism. So now we are opening this up - because these large, luxury boats usually have a very small number of people, five, six, seven, eight - but under the same conditions and conditions as Greek-flagged tourist boats. Only then will blacks stop, because you know very well what happened with monkeys in line. Didn't you know all these years that the illegal shipwrecked pact was in the Aegean Sea and that leadership came and dared to clash with all these dark interests? That's why we don't say anything. Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to go to Article 24, which has become a misunderstanding. I think she was well-qualified, because I heard of a scandal, so to speak. I would therefore like to say to you this: Article 24 brings transparency to all the issues of fines and sets a proportionality. 'Cause now what's going on? There was a limit, a ceiling - let me say - but they also had the possibility of putting the smallest fines. Now this puts this process in motion and restricts it. However, as far as oil pollution is concerned, there is the legislation. But since you've challenged me, I'll answer you. With this story of "AYIA ZONI" we had a fine of 1,200,000 euros. You in 2012, when you sank the "A1" in the Gulf of Elefsina with about the same features and the same load you only put 150,000 euros. That's our difference. So there is no question here of creating a misunderstanding. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister Panagiotis Kourublis presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to say, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that these provisions complement loopholes in the legislation. Of course, there may be mistakes. We do not think that we have the only truth, but now you come to say that you are bringing provisions, amendments,'my late knowledge of you first'. This, unfortunately, has been done. It's a mistake that can be done now. I don't question it, but don't come here as guardians to say it. Know that there was this wrong practice and then you'll be more convincing, but you come 'as virgins' that you don't know anything about what's been going on all these years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u194	You said you were going to change them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u195	Come on, Mr. Placiotakis, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u196	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u197	Minister, I'm sorry, just for your information...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u198	You know very well what happened. All the parties that ruled, when they were in opposition, were protesting about this practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u199	You said you'd change them and make them worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u200	Unfortunately, it is now to a certain extent done. To try all of us together to limit it, I have no objections, but not to come and leave unfoundedly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u201	Minister, for your information, you're in twenty-three minutes. I'm not saying this to close, so you know your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u202	I would therefore like to say, Mr President, that the provisions we have brought are provisions which really come to respond to critical issues relating to the maritime ministry. I would also like to say, Mr President - and to close - that we are open to a dialogue between the parties and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs. We are therefore waiting for the challenge. We are also open here to the committee and to discuss with the Ministry. I think that shipping is a very critical and very large area for the development of the country. Last year, Mr President, we had 17% increase in shipping exchange. We've reached 9.13%. We have had the installation for the last three years of three hundred and ten new shipping companies and shipping companies in Piraeus. It is also a sign that the recovery effort begins. So there are a number of issues on which debate and dialogue need and we are prepared to listen - because, as I said, we do not have the only truth - so that we can correct both mistakes and weaknesses so that we can really all be useful in this critical sector of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Kefaloyannis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I enter the bill, I can only comment on some general references made by the Minister, because, apart from the bill, he has also referred to a politically sound attitude, he has referred to what has happened all these years and what has not happened. You know, on the occasion of yesterday's day, when our people celebrate early April, too many videos have been released online. A lot of what Alexis Tsipras said at the time, being in the opposition, did exactly the opposite when he went to the country's governance, that is, when he became Prime Minister. Or even a lot of what he said at the time, he just hasn't done it. So I would say that everyone in this Chamber should keep a level as low as possible because we often find it before us, Minister. Because if you do sit down and analyse what has been said all these years, when you have been to the opposition, and what you are doing now that you are in the government, you will see that it is actually by the opposite. What I can keep, however, is indeed an urge that we can improve too much of the legislative function. But, as a parliamentary representative, I have often denounced the fact that not only do you, as a government, continue the bad precedents of all previous governments, that is to say, bringing in late amendments, unfortunately continue to bring amendments to unrelated bills. In fact, there are amendments that often come to a close to the debate on the bill. Today, the amendment you tabled, which you said previously as Ministry, which increased by a hundred posts the teaching staff in the various schools, was tabled, Minister, at 11.40 a.m., 20 minutes before today's debate begins. And I ask you: could you not have tabled it much earlier, had we had a specific debate in committee, had we had the time and the comfort of the time to discuss it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u205	We were delayed by the General Accounting Office, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u206	But, Minister, that seems to be a bad legacy. That is what we have to agree on, and that must be stopped at some point. It is not enough to judge it. This must be done at some point. So I come to the bill. Today, among other things, we are discussing the incorporation of the European Directive 2015/1794 into Greek law. And I say 'including' because it is a bill which contains twenty-seven articles, if I'm not mistaken. Of course, the directive concerns only nine of them, namely 1/3 of the bill. Other speakers have rightly pointed out that this is not the essence of a new directive, but of an amendment to earlier directives, which exempted seafarers, among other things, from labour law provisions, particularly as regards the regime for collective redundancies. Under normal circumstances, Mr Ministers, the incorporation of a European directive should at least be a formal process. But a little bit on the subject of the bill, that is to say, the issue of collective redundancies, a little of the persons involved, namely seafarers, who are famous for their dynamic strikes, and a little bit of the fact that this incorporation actually comes within the Great Week, but in the end too, the fear that you too will be accused of introducing collective redundancies into the naval labour, all of this has the effect today of apparently discussing another directive, an inspiration from the SYRIZA and the Independent Greek Government, which clearly alters the logic of a European directive that you had to introduce into the Greek legal system. And of course, based on the flexibility given by European law to the Member States in incorporating a directive, you considered it appropriate to include some provisions or to interpret others in such a way that they would make the application of this directive at best operational and unfortunately, in the worst case, inappropriate. I'm explaining. Amongst other things, in the bill is Article 11 paragraph 2 and in an elegant manner, Mr Minister, it is the truth, you come and say today that the provisions on collective redundancies do not prejudice the requirements for the establishment of an organic composition of ships. And obviously that provision did not exist in the directive either. Apparently, of course, there would be some reason for that. If you were to monitor the dialogue between the European social partners involved in the drafting of the directive or even if you were asking, Minister, the servants of your Ministry, I think they would have explained to you. The most interesting thing here is that Article 11(2) did not exist in the original text. We have even learned from a WMO press release, which I read, that "the decisive, immediate and substantial intervention of the Secretary-General of WNO Mr Giannis Hall has prevented the change of regime governing the redundancies of seafarers and the existing legislation defining organic compositions and functions of ships and on the same day", continues the press release, "within a few hours of the dynamic intervention of WNO, changed the relevant article of the draft law by adding a provision that ensures seafarers". And I ask, Minister: what would happen if you hadn't included Article 11(2) in the draft law? Would the shipowners proceed to collective redundancies within the number or specialties of the ship's organic compositions? But the answer you didn't dare say to the NOT is that it's not. This is not about collective redundancies within the number of organic compositions in general. It concerns specific cases, which you had to find after consulting the social partners, but which you did not do, to specialize them and, of course, to incorporate them. In fact, in accordance with the express provisions of Article 87 of the Code of Public Maritime Law, the organic composition of ship's personnel and the number and specialities of seafarers are determined by presidential decrees. Furthermore, the organic composition for each ship is also determined in accordance with the terms of international conventions, which it has ratified at times and our country, depending on the category, namely the classing of ships, in order to ensure the safety conditions in force internationally. It is therefore not considered to be a group reduction in organic composition, either in number or in seafarers' specialities, since, otherwise, as has been said, the safety levels of the ship are directly affected. 'Could it also be the spirit of a European directive?' It's the question. ‘The reduction in the level of safety of passengers and crew?’. The answer is, of course, not. The spirit of the European directive was to ensure a level of competitiveness of the European, therefore Greek, shipping sector. This spirit is not only incorporating it, but unfortunately it is being destroyed. In fact, the representative of the Chamber of Shipping raised a number of questions for you. How much did you take into account, Minister, the intense seasonality of the Greek coastline? How do you protect the competitiveness of Greek shipping and seafarers, in the case of the replacement of a ship with another that provides for fewer organic positions? How exactly do you protect the minimum specified crew from group redundancies on a ship that is sold to replace with a new, more modern one? How do you protect workers in the event of a major damage, which forces a ship to stay for a very long time in the shipyards for repair? By putting in place a malfunctioning, bureaucratic procedure that can reach up to two months in order to determine collective redundancies on excess personnel? In the way you legislate, Minister, you do not protect the workers, but, unfortunately, neither do you protect the competitiveness of Greek shipping. Competitiveness is a prerequisite for the first. If that perception doesn't change...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u207	They don't both get married.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u208	And yet, you can marry them, Minister, but it's another conversation. You can answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u209	'Competitiveness and protection of workers' only you say so!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u210	Minister, you have all the time and the right to answer me then. I listened very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u211	Me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u212	Minister, you don't sound. Mr. Kefaliannis, don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u213	Minister, there are obviously different political views, which is why we are in different parties. We believe, however, that, if you do not change this perception, neither competitive shipping will we, of course, have an increase in the jobs of seafarers. You are bringing to Parliament a directive whose application is undermined before it is even voted on. And unfortunately, sooner or later, we predict, it will also come to the European courts, or you will again come here, in your dear way, to change a piece of legislation which you yourself have introduced and you have voted on. Unfortunately, however, it seems that this is not even very much of a concern to you. You are interested in buying time to sell on behalf of the fact that you have protected the organic positions of ships, which - I repeat - are protected anyway, and if, in the meantime, a government change occurs, which will be called upon by the new government to implement the decisions of the European Courts, so much the best for you, because then you will also be 'in the bars' and you will be denounced the so-called neoliberalism of New Democracy, which levels the jobs, in your favourite tactics. Now, for the rest of the bill, both our rapporteur and Mr Plakkatakis have spoken. You are faithfully copying the same pattern of legislation: corrections of inappropriate laws of your own government, voted four to five months ago. Some settings, even well-to-be, put us in suspicion. And, unfortunately, some of the inappropriate provisions that you themselves voted on and you themselves are correcting with this law, not even tested in practice. Because I heard the majority rapporteur say 'We had the political courage to correct it'. Yes, sir. This would have happened if they had been tested in practice, Mr President. But they weren't tested. You are changing provisions that were passed four months ago and were not even tested in practice. We told you then that was a mistake. You have accused us of making a sterile opposition and you are now coming, after four months, to correct them. Good to fix them, but you can't be right and then right now. Something's wrong. I'm closing with the amendments. Mr Minister, there are two amendments which you have not said will be accepted, or at least I have not heard of them. I refer to general number 1539 and special number 32...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u214	We'll let you know right after.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u215	Just have the floor afterwards, too, to take a stand. So I will not go into these two amendments. I am going to go to Amendment No 1546 and to specific number 34, which concerns the extension retrospectively of the term of subsidiary doctors in Attica, with the exception of the islands, and the Law of Thessaloniki. I have heard Minister Paulakis say that by mistake the report by the General Accounting Office of the State refers only to these two laws, but in fact the provision refers to the whole territory. Because it's registered, I'm staying in it. I hope, however, that it does not hide anything wicked or - because we are talking about an expense of 12.7 million - only these two prefectures, or about the whole of the territory, because we are talking about public money. We must, of course, remain in the assurance of the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u216	He's auxiliaries.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u217	Yes, I am simply pointing it out, because the Minister said it was about the whole territory and the General Accounting Office in his report only refers to the two counties, Attica and Thessaloniki, and it also excludes the islands. I live in what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u218	The number is the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u219	The number of the expenditure?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u220	No, the number of doctors Mr. Paulakis said is the one recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u221	Minister, on the microphone, please, why don't you hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u222	The number of doctors Mr. Paulakis said is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u223	I hope, in numerical terms, that the Minister is right this time, because the CEDEFOP in our committee has broken up. In Amendment No 1547/35, in order to offset debts to the EEA, we are, of course, positive in our first article to enable the free traders to set off against the backdrop. As regards the second article, however, we believe that for many years the extra-contractual supplies of hospitals are being legitimised, which we have, of course, denounced many times. If he comes into two separate articles, of course in the first we will be positive, while in the second negative. If it comes as a single article, then we shall vote 'at present'. For Amendment No 1548/36, what really should one be thinking about? Unfortunately, it is another feature of your way of legislating. Once again - it is what I have said before - provisions of your own legislation, amending eight articles of the chapter on the electronic advertising system in order to make it more operational. I conclude with Amendment No 1549/37. It is the one we told you before, Minister, that you brought it twenty minutes before the start of the debate. I hope it's-- to say the last time? - the few times this thing happens again. We in the New Democracy have said and are in the position that amendments that are in the middle of the debate or just before the start of the debate in plenary, even if they are in fact positive, we will vote against them. We are going to vote against this and we are going to take a positive stance on the others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. The Foreign Minister, Mr Santorinis, has asked for the floor to be put to the vote on the amendments. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Xydakis will speak. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the ministerial amendments, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Digital Policy and our Ministry are concerned, all four are accepted. They're approved. As far as the amendments are concerned, the amendment with a general number of 1539 and a specific number of 32, by Mr Kamateros, is accepted. She's the one about campsite. Amendment No 1541, and Mr Dritsa's special number 33, is also accepted. It concerns the safe transport of municipal solid waste from islands. Also, Amendment No 1550/38 by Mr Palli - the previous one was withdrawn and new ones came - is also accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u226	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Xydakis has the floor. I'd like to inform you of the procedure until it comes to the Step. After Mr Xydakis remains Mrs Zaroulia and we conclude with the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u227	The rapporteurs?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u228	Let me finish, Mr. Armacler, and you will listen. Then the Deputy Minister, Mr Santorinios, will be placed. The rapporteurs and, if they wish, the Minister will have the opportunity for the closure of the procedure to proceed with the closure of the procedure and the vote. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. I think that at the last plenary session ahead of the small Easter break, we had a rather pleasant model for a smooth operation of Parliament. There have been objections to the directive on the bill, additions have been made. But I think there have been compositions and shocks. And, in any case, any divergences are completely legitimate - not to say and impose - because we have democracy, we cannot agree at all, but we are obliged to go ahead. There are many issues like this, except in this case of the Great Easter Monday of 2018, which we are obliged to disagree, that is to say, to table different opinions. But we are also obliged to find the necessary compositions and convergences and to move forward. We have had such major issues throughout recent years of national interest, to which we have been called and are still invited to discuss and converge. These are the major foreign policy issues, which are raised with great vigour because of the historical context. There has been the issue of 'Macedonian' and Balkan stability, which is being raised and which we are being called upon to discuss. There is tension in Greek-Turkish relations, there is tension in the Southeast Mediterranean. These are the issues on which we are about to make the major political compositions. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] Amongst this, I would say with some grief, not even anger, I have previously heard the parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance rather as a misinterpretation. While making an accurate record of the events, it gradually passes into selective concealments and over-interpretations and falsifications of the events. What still tastes like it is that there is a lasting mediation, a lasting tension and a lasting dispersion of division in the social body and by Civic Opposition, the Major Opposition, and by Elasson. It is impressive that after two major elections for the election of Parliament and government and a large referendum, with all the emotional burden that these elections have borne in 2015, and the Major and the Elasson opposition - not all of Elasson, but some members - are constantly insisting on direct elections and substantially overthrowing the legally elected government. It is shocking if you see it: at the same time as Greek citizens through polling and in every debate we all call on the need for stability of the electoral cycles, for stability to be restored, for the severely injured economy and society to regain pluralism, for the serious members of the political system to constantly insist on serious characterisations. Some people come to express themselves in public fora with designations suggesting that there is an ongoing coup in the country, that there is tyranny, that they are not legally elected by those who govern and - I do not know how - they are talking about discharge. I remember, therefore, because we are some older people, even though young people in parliamentary age, who, with similar sadness, watched in the 1980s, the New Democracy talking about the then-elected PASOK and similar expressions, hard, who are unfair to the Greek Republic, again the Conservative party in 1989. And I see that, despite the years that have passed, despite the ideological currents, the great geopolitical developments - there have been many years - in 2018 there have been people in the Conservative Party - I would call them neo-right and right-wing and far-right - who have not learned anything from the recent political history and post-population, but from the entire political history of the Greek 20th century, from the devastating effects of the division, the civil war and the destruction of the political opponent, not the conflict with the political opponent, but the extermination, the dissolution and the anomaly. These were said in the years of the retired state, such things were said in terms of analogy and in the years of the great division in the Messopolitan War. That is why it is not only regrettable that the pluralism and malnutrition by which the political discourse of the opposition is formed shows us not only the rabies of this self-justified politician, who wishes to regain power, not changing ideas, not by adapting to new political data, not by adapting to new social needs, to new historical challenges, but I think that we now have an obligation to the whole range of the political system within the constitutional arch, within the supporters of democracy, and not within the deniests of democracy, to see with new intellectual tools, with new conception, the new needs that the historic period put us. It is not only that next summer we believe that we will enter a new political cycle after the conventional end of the memorials and the effective exit from this wild-minded climate of national sovereignty - that is, of course, what the Greek people are eagerly waiting for, to dawn one day with new hopes - but we have before us both the new major turbulence in the south-east Mediterranean and neighbouring Turkey and the instability in the Balkans, which put us in new responsibilities, the whole political world, and also the citizens who elect us, in new questions to which we must have new answers. The old rabies of the patrons, of the stepfathers, which was embedded in the political system in an alpha or beta way, must not survive, must not give their own tone in this new period. We have, at least, a demand for a prudent composition in external matters, with differentiations, but for a composition. We have before us the requirement for political renewal and this could also be expressed with a structured convergence on constitutional reform issues. We have elections in front of us. There will be elections sooner or later with the simple analogue, we will go to a reorder of the political scene, this is my personal appreciation, and perhaps to a fairer and fairer, however, if not better, richer representation of society, as will come out after the wounds of the memorandum towards a new hope for reconstruction. So let us be wiser, in less words, with fewer screams, with less vicious screams against the political opponents and more careful of the citizens who are watching us. In these words, I would like to wish you, too, for the Great Week and for the Elevation of the Resurrection, and hope that this opportunity, repetitively for the Resurrection, will be a deeper message of hope for the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u230	Thank you. Mrs Zaroulia, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much, Mr President. I can only begin by reminding the Greek people that thirty-two days have passed for captivity of the two Greek soldiers from the Turks. Before I refer to the bill, since we have already entered in April, it would be good to remind the Greek people of the time-consuming role of the Communists. As yesterday, 1st of April 1955, the national liberation struggle of the Cypriots began, the strict unity of the Cypriot people, except of course the permanent servants of the pluralism, the communists. Let's see what the late Tassos Papadopoulos, the later President of Cyprus, said "NOV" to Plan Annan, said. He said: “Why, though, is red leadership inverted? Because he collected and collects British silver. For Ziartides and Sias became agents of the Intelligence Service and because they collected British silver and because they were placed in the service of the Intelligence Service they had the exclusive mission to bury the Cyprus issue." For the treasonal role of the Communists and George Grivas Progenitor had expressed himself with the following words: "We had to deal with three enemies: the British, the Turks and the Communists. My greatest headache was the Communists." Since then, the Communists of Cyprus, and not just, have not changed at all. That's all for the story. But let us now come to today and to the theater of the absurd that is played in here every day, according to what we hear from the highly indebted parties of the so-called 'constitutional arch'. So the other day, Mrs. Gennimata came out of a step and called for transparency and control of the parties' economics. Oh, how courageous! I'd say a memorial torment. For the record to say that the People's Association - Golden Dawn party has been audited many times, although it has not received any loan from any bank, it does not owe anyone anything, it does not manage public money, since state funding has been suspended for a few years, five years in particular, and therefore there is no question of breaking public money. The Golden Dawn party was found in everything. For our part, we have some questions, rather rhetorical. Some time ago, in November 2017, a conference was held by the newly established political movement movement of Change. Can anyone inform the Greek people about the subscriptions and/or contributions received, what document was issued, under what name and what VAT, since there was no statute, as foreseen, of this new political body and thus what account was deposited? For the Minutes, I will deposit the relevant statutes of the Change Movement, which was issued four months later, in March 2017. What are we reading here? 'Change movement: Declarations, statutes and symbols are now decided'. When did the conference take place? In 2017? And in March 2018 was the statute? What's going on here? What happened to that money? [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Eleni Zaroulia, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are also asking for information on the grant and allocation of funds to the political body 'Elea' in the context of the European elections. Is a party grant foreseen under the law, which did not participate in previous elections? I'm going to testify this for the Minutes too. ‘Ole - Democratic Order: Budget 2015. Financing tactics: EUR 73,000. Election funding: 172,000 euros. Total revenue: EUR 245,000.’ What's going on? Why is all this happening? Is that foreseeable? Is that legal? [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Eleni Zaroulia, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And one last thing. When PASOK was checked, something "a few" million euros were found in a locker, which no one knew of their existence. What happened to that? Are they confiscated or are we still in the waiting room? Why, once he was unable to justify them and owes money to this party on the constitutional arch, shouldn't these have been seized already? I will read the relevant post from 21-1-2016 at ‘REAL NEWS’. I do not adopt it, I simply submit it to the Minutes, and I ask if anyone wants to inform the Greek people what the parties in the constitutional arch do. "Confronted with felony charges for dirty money laundering will soon be found many top PASOK executives, after the party's "black fund" which was a tug in the millions. In Charilaou Trikoupi, sworn accountants discovered the hidden fund that was "fill" from the media sponsorships. In a safe the mythical amount of EUR 15 million in cash was found!” I mean, change. "This fund was secret and was handled by the respective president and trusted party leader, while no evidence of the black money was found at all. The "Black Fund" operates with practices that have referred to organised crime and to Sicily's gangs. The treasure found in PASOK is expected to be confiscated - I do not know if it was confiscated - by the authorities responsible for combating black money." We have a criminal organization of PASOK, and we do not see any prosecution being carried out. [[At this point, Member Eleni Zaroulia submits for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I will conclude my reference and I will then be placed in the amendments by saying that in every way and extremely undemocratic, you are trying to fade the third political power of the country, the People's Association - Golden Dawn. With the slightest, you're closing our microphones, you've been erasing our words lately, to terrorize us, you're cutting us off of our wages. What has happened in the past has become signs and monsters by other Members of the constitutional arch, but no punishment has ever been imposed on anyone. I will only be indulging some of the things that have been said and which have not been dealt with in the same way. Giulekas from New Democracy on October 20, 2011, among others, said: “It was not a betrayal that the Prime Minister himself defamed the country? It was not treason when the then Minister of Finance spoke of 'Titanic', thus describing our national economy. Panagiotis Kammenos from the Independent Greeks on July 7, 2012, had said: "But no more crime is recorded, the offence of the last treason, which, if it was proved to be part of the plan, will be judged and judged very strictly by the Greek people." Hatzidakis from New Democracy on 21 May 2016 concluded his speech saying: “You as German germans today”. The Karatzafer of LAOS on June 19, 2011, spoke of an Arab proverb: “Only a traitor, always a traitor.” Tsipra's political dad, Alavanos, had spoken of Tahrir Square. Tsipras himself, on March 30, 2014, stated unequivocally: "We are determined and firm about this crime to sit on the stool." Dritsa, February 12, 2012, referred to fascist blackmail. We could say today if there was freedom of speech and we were not in danger of eating any punishment, that now you are making Marxist blackmail. But let us look at the 'democracy' of Bolshevik Voutsi, which applies the principle of collective responsibility, which only applies to authoritarian and authoritarian regimes. Georgiadis of the New Democracy on December 15, 2016, said: "You will not hide, ass, behind the immunity, you coward, a crook, you faked Cretan! I'll tear out your mustaches!' Finally, on February 12, 2012, the MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mavrikos exemplified the memorandum to the Bureau. That's a few, 'cause there's more. I would like to refer to the amendments. I shall refer to the amendment with a general number of 1548 and a specific number of 36. This amendment comes into an irrelevant bill in your usual practice. All aspects of an advertising transaction are known to all parties involved. You're supposed to settle the matter of refunds. The media is obliged to return substantial sums to advertising companies at the end of each year on the basis of the cigarette. Even if he has not signed a relevant agreement, there is a customary law. This is supposed to be the source of opacity or one of the main sources, a practice that has served black political money in the years. In any case, despite perhaps attempts to improve a bad system, the government is actually trying to build a landscape of its own in the media by imposing its own rules and interests, in particular by maintaining media interests. We are voting against this amendment. I wish good Lambri to all Christian Orthodoxs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, too. The Deputy Minister, Mr Santorinios, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore bringing ratification and amendment of five European directives, which aim to protect seafarers more effectively in the event of collective redundancies, according to which seafarers will have an active involvement in the procedures for information and consultation in Community-scale enterprises and groups of companies, in the maintenance of the rights of seafarers in the event of transfers of undertakings, in the removal of existing exemptions, such as fishermen with the track. We've almost forgotten this, but it's important. There are some people who are working on large fishing boats who are taking supplies, and so far there has been no protection for them. We're bringing a protection framework for them too. And we are obviously bringing about the reform of the existing institutional framework for seafarers, taking into account the objective specificities of the maritime profession, in order to enjoy equal treatment with other workers. We said, therefore, that Directive 2008/94/EC is being amended. It's what we said about fishermen with the piece. They are people who have been practically in obscurity and have not been protected at all. Directive 2009/38/EC granting seafarers at Community level the right to participate in information and consultation procedures and at the same time enable them to participate in new technologies in order to enable them to do their work at sea or in other ports. I think it is very important that they can participate in the special negotiating group or the European Works Council and appoint a deputy who may also be representatives of the WIPO. But what is most important? The most important is Directive 1998/59 on the creation of a protective framework in the event of group decommissioning of seafarers. So far, there has been no protective framework for collective redundancies. These were happening, but there was no protective framework. The seamen were not entitled to express an opinion on this. But what is the reality? Let's say that. The reality is that in shipping we have organic compositions. What does that mean? That the number of seamen with the qualifications required must be retained on board, in accordance with the provisions of the legislation in force concerning the staff of ships of a public mandatory nature. And that's what's maintained. And because there is the question raised by Mr Athanasios at all times about Article 11, I also told the committee, Mr Athanasios, that such protective provisions are imposed by international and Union institutions and, therefore, there is no incompatibility with Union law, particularly with paragraph 2, which specifically refers to organic compositions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u234	You didn't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u235	It is good to exist to ensure that organic compositions are in the context of this legislation as well. And because Mr Plakkatakis mentioned the committee - I do not know if he was mentioned today - for the Council of Merchant Navy and told us that it is not a tripartite body, we also told the committee that the Hellenic Chamber of Navy is the most representative body of all shipowners and shipowners. And for the truth, I submit in the Minutes the forced law, Law 191/1936, which in Article 5, what does it say? It says that the members of the Chamber are distinguished into three categories - I am making a little free translation, because they are in the cleaner - of the freight van, of passenger shipping, of sailing. So it represents them all, more than the ones represented by the '3E'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u236	What does it say to the cleansing man, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u237	You'll read it from my statement in the Minutes, Mr. Loverdos. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Mr Nektarios Santorinios, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] So there is a protective framework and this is guaranteed by the Council of Merchant Navy, which is a tripartite body. To conclude with this, we must note a few things that have been mentioned by the institutions too. Let us note, therefore, that ships carrying on roadboats are governed by a specific framework of activity by a defined period of time and a demarcated way that operates, according to an approved programme of specific duration, which are well-known and accepted among the parties. The exemption arrangements have therefore taken into account this framework and the seasonality of the network, including the execution of annual inspection and maintenance work, as well as any ship departures, in order to operate internationally. Also, for ships of international ships of dismissal made in the context of damage, regular or exceptional inspection, incompetence of the ship to a ship and sale thereof, in which the protection of the rights of seafarers is maintained, it is considered that they fall within the scope of the exceptions to this draft law. It is also clear that for tourist ships, which are active in a specific period of time as well as for those to which the terms of employment of tourist ships apply, the conditions for organising labour relations are also known and therefore fall within these exceptions. Because there has been a lot of talk about compliance, I think that with the changes made to Article 8 and Article 27, this problem has been corrected and obviously has been given retroactive effect in the regulations, because that is how it has to be done under Community law. However, it is clear that retroactiveness cannot already occupy any checks carried out nor do it concern the imposition of sanctions on all the provisions of the first part of that draft law. So let us go a little further than the other provisions, because I do not want to abuse the time. I think it has been made clear that the provision of Article 14 to amend the way in which the feeding allowance is granted to students in the AEN is something that improves the situation, because it gives all students the allowance. And when I say "to everyone", I mean to everyone, because I heard the objection that we are putting issues in the performance of these students. We ask that half the lessons have been passed. What are we asking? Something terrible? To have spent half the lessons, not to be tourists, that is to say, AEN, so that they can get the allowance. Is that unreasonable? I don't get it. Now, what it has to do with the Port Regulatory Authority, I think most of the provisions are agreed by the majority of the parties. Paragraph 5 is deleted. We are talking about two or three members of the Port Corps, which will also be the link - if you like - of the RAL, the Port Regulatory Authority and the Port Body.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u238	Are you talking about paragraph 4?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u239	I'm talking about paragraph 4. These, because they're military personnel, they can't get into mobility. There is no other way out of regulation. And I understand the anxiety that the staff of the port authorities will not be missed, but I asked the committee as well: have you now remembered the port authorities? When the staff of the port authorities were in 50% of the composition and today is 95%, did you remember the port authorities today? All right! To know a little and what we're talking about and to know our story.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u240	About the legal issue that the Scientific Studies Directorate put in, and where did I say so?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u241	I think that what is clear is that in order to be able to get staff from the Port House, there is no other way than legislation, because it is military personnel.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u242	So you don't drop it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u243	Do you withdraw it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u244	He's not retiring. Oh, no. Everything that's about the TALS, I think the Minister answered you. So I keep going. Article 17 removes the condition that the pleasure boat has a capacity of more than 12 persons in order to carry out a charter contract in which the place of delivery and the place of re-delivery is situated on the Greek territory. It's not about the safety of the ship. It's clear. No connection to the safety of the ship. What happened now? If it was not possible to have a protocol of 12 people, it could not become a charter. That's all. I don't understand how this thing is getting involved. For classification certificates, I think there is no objection. Now, let's go to the pan-Hellenic exams, so I can slow down. We talked about the pan-Hellenic exams before. In the police, there's the Police School and the Police School. Intermediately, there is a School of Officials, but not taken from the Greeks, gets from the policemen, who, after some time and with some examinations, become an officer. The exact same way we bring here. There is no question of abolishing a third school. But there's nowhere in any other college in this House to put three schools in the pan-Hellenic. I think it's too much. I think most of them have been covered. Let me make it clear once again about Article 24, because Mr Amyras had raised his objections. I think it was clear that the explanations I gave to the committee, but that I should also give them here. Article 157 of the D.C. was the only one to deal with environmental issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u245	Then what?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u246	Then, in 1973. Essentially since then, the Presidential Decree 55/1998 has been made and on this basis the large fine of about EUR 1,200,000 has been imposed for "Agia ZONI". So there is no reason for this provision to exist in this article. What are these amounts from EUR 50 to EUR 60,000? They are fines contained in the general port regulations, which will be specified in each infringement in each of the special and general port regulations. So I think there's no reason you won't vote for this article either. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr. President, I'm closing. I think it really is a bill that brings a substantial protection framework for our seafarers, unlike what has been heard. The term 'group redundancies' does not mean that we bring collective redundancies. We're bringing a protective framework for team redundancies. I think that some important improvements are being made to the other provisions, which will make it easier both for the Yachting and the Port Corps. Thank you very much. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Minister. We are moving forward with the process of the denial of the rapporteurs and the special speakers. Mr. Symblene, you have the floor first for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. I will make two points. The first point concerns the comparison of two positions, on the one hand Mr Kefaliannis as Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy and on the other hand Mrs Manolakos as rapporteur for the JRC. What do I mean by that? I would like to say that by listening to both of them in relation to the protection of seafarers, one understands why the bill is moving in the right direction. And what do I mean? Mr Kefaloyannis spoke about the competitiveness of shipping, which, in his view, is not guaranteed, especially by the provisions of Article 11, which does not prejudice the framework for organic compositions, so there is no question of collective redundancies there, as does the others that have been said. On the other hand, Mrs Manolakou says 'the protection framework is completely abolished and we are going to be made redundant'. What's the matter with the two? Let's understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u249	It is legitimate that the law currently in force is in force.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u250	So we're in the right direction. That's what I mean. The second point concerns Mr Loverdos who has left now, but in any case it sounds. His position showed me that he had terrible stress to keep the Democratic Compact in a position just behind Mr Mitsotakis' attitude. In other words, he fears, with what Mr Loverdos said today and with what is heard in the public political dialogue and in the Constitution, but also on a number of other issues, that perhaps some people in the Democratic Asylum want to move in other directions or, in any case, to keep a neutrality, as was, in theory, said by the Conference of Democratic Integration. That is what I wanted to point out. And I close by saying two words about the two amendments, only because they have not been heard. One amendment concerns the question of camps for children belonging to the Navy, where the appropriations for the camps will be determined by ministerial decision and the daily food shop for children's camps. It will also be laid down that, for private camps, the level of individual expenditure will be the one to be applied and determined by the children of members of the Institutions with the power of the General Secretariat of Social Security, which goes beyond a public tender, which delayed the final decisions. The second concerns the amendment by Mr Dritsa and other colleagues, the transport of urban solid waste from small islands through ships on condition. And here it is clear that, when infrastructure has not been made by the local plans of the waste management bodies and the regional waste management plans, when these infrastructures have not been completed, it is possible, by ensuring the safety of shipping and the absolute protection of the environment in enclosed spaces and under specific conditions, to be able to transport these urban complexes for as long as - I repeat - there are no such infrastructure, on ships with passengers. These were the two amendments. As far as Mr Pallie's amendment is concerned, I would just like to add that for the first time, during the days of this government, the people owed them to seamen were paid for, and now they are paid to those workers, to those companies on land, which were not included, for the first time, seafarers were paid by a company which was bankrupt and to a discount from the lines they had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, too. If I understood correctly, Mr Symphony, because it is far away and Mr Loverdos is not here, the assessment is yours. Because if he were here, he would certainly take the floor and answer what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u252	I'm making an assessment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u253	That's right. It does not mean that one party follows another party. You just interpret, according to your opinion, in any case.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u254	You carry them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u255	That's right. Besides, this is Mr. Karras to comment on it. Mr. Athanasios, I see you have spoken twenty-six minutes in your prototype. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u256	Yes, Mr. President. I'll be placed very quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u257	I'll give you two or three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a few points in view of what has been said, first of all Mr Xydakis. Mr Xydakis said that even when there are different views among the parties, we must address others with decency and raise the political level of the House. No objections, and that is a firm position of our party. However, I would like to say to him that it would be well to read the 'Bible of shame' - so it is called -, which SYRIZA issued in June 2014, where there is great criticism of the legislation we took, which was most commemorative and correct in principle - not all - in the sense of gravity and the consequences they had on the economically weak classes. Then SYRIZA came and took much worse measures, even surpassing propaganda and famous Che Pota, Mao Tse Tung's Minister of Propaganda. As for the amendments which Mr Kourublis said, I, too, agree that they should not come to legislation that is irrelevant. It's a fixed position, which I have said on several occasions. I would remind you of Rule 74(5) of the Constitution and Rule 88 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, from which it appears that the amendments cannot be tabled in separate legislations. It's a fixed start. Unfortunately, however, it has not been observed by all the previous governments by one measure, but it has been a great abuse now of this government. And the Rules of Procedure say that if there is a question of questioning whether a provision, an amendment relating to the legislation, Parliament shall decide by a majority of 1/10. We are now going to the shipping currency that Mr Kurublis has said about. The shipping exchange you took it, Minister, at EUR 13 billion and reduced it to EUR 7 billion. Only at the end of 2017 did you raise it by 1 billion, you did it at 8 billion. Just so we know what we're talking about. As far as the ship for Kythira is concerned, there was indeed a barren line. There was a policy then of the New Democracy Government to strengthen the small islands. He renewed this agreement - I said this before, interrupting Mr Kurubli - and Mr Dritsa - I think he did very well - and Mr Varvitsiotis too. What's the problem? As regards the staff serving in Mytilini, in 2015 we handed you about a hundred and twenty organic posts and were scheduled early in 2015, due to the migratory crisis, to the hundreds of seventy. Indeed, today is not a hundred seventy. It's a hundred ninety-eight. You have increased the number and that makes sense, because the flows from Turkey, by traffickers, have become too dense in terms of migration. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One last thing I would like to say about paragraph 6. Indeed, Mr Minister, the provision concerns what you have said. I am referring to Article 124 of the Law and 157 of the Code of Public Maritime Law, which is completely abolished. I too could agree that this concerned the general and specific regulations of ports, but a careful reading arises because you have abolished it. I have to read it to the Members. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In paragraph 6 of Article 157 it is said: ‘In serious cases of oil pollution by means of vessels of territorial waters, ports and coasts, the Minister shall have the right to impose a fine of up to EUR 50 million’. So we have a special provision in the general and specific regulations that served some purpose. That provision should therefore not be repealed. I don't see why he was abolished. I would like to make a wish to the government. Our islands are plagued and I now hear that objective values will be raised because of the economic crisis and also the refugee crisis in particular. It will be good, Minister, to transfer to the leadership of the Ministry of Finance - so that the objective values do not rise to the islands - the problems we face. You see how tourism has fallen. As far as the amendments are concerned, we will talk separately about each one when we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, too. Mr. Karras has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u260	With your permission from my position. First of all, although we are talking today about the legislation of the Ministry of Shipping, which has an impact on the work and the organization of shipping, I am obliged to comment on the position of my colleague, Mr Armalenius, whom I have been attending. It was concluded that there was an eye closure or something different from my colleague, Mr Loverdos, as well as the expression of anguish. At least I did not collect that conclusion. On the other hand, in order not to abuse the time, I must say this: I am one of those who also came to the Change Movement to create a centrally progressive party, which will not have anything to do with it, either on the right or on the left, to express socialist principles, progressive and the principles of the social state and the average Greek. If that's what the dear Mr. Symblene understands otherwise, it's not my fault or Mr. Loverdos. We are now going to the issue of legislation, which concerns us. I have not spoken at all, Mr President, about the amendments. I would like to refer first of all to the amendments tabled by my fellow Members. I have to say this and I will be concise. The amendment to camps for the children of Mr Kamaterou's seafarers must find us in agreement. Mr Pallie's amendment, although he was afflicted a little, and we did not understand the intention at the beginning, will find us in agreement. Unfortunately, however, I see a major issue coming with Mr Dritsa's amendment, which is urban waste and its transport from the islands. We are now photographically referring to Aegina and Agistri, and we must not forget the problem they had in the summer. There was time for both the government and local government, first and second, to deal with this issue during the winter. So I see that it was left at the last minute and - if you will excuse me, Mr Minister - I think that the amendment was expelled from the Ministry and not from the Members who tabled it. I don't want an answer to that, it's my conclusion. He does not agree with me and I will be looking after 'the present'. And why? There is one line to the amendment. Did you see her? Did you notice her? It also speaks of subsidies in the second paragraph. To delete the second paragraph - see it - as it refers to islandity and the Constitution. Delete the second paragraph and we will vote on it. However, I do not want to open a ferry with amendments of this kind, because I understand the agony in the small islands that the shipowners carrying wastewaters should be strengthened, but I want them to be in a wider strategy and not to be in a single strategy. So delete the subsidies, and here we are voting on it. Let us go to the next, to the ministerial amendments, which I consider to be important, but in good time, Mr President, we have never been given any legislative time to analyse them and to talk about the substance. I shall therefore turn to Mr Polakis' amendment: an extension of the term of office of subsidiary doctors. Since no one is excluded, as you have said, we are positive for the health system to work. Because, otherwise, if we stay where we find doctors, I fear that, due to the migration of doctors, which is rapid lately, we will not find doctors for whom we have invested great costs and the families and the state. So we are positive about that. That amendment which I do not understand - the same Ministry, Mr Polakis - is the second one, which I can say is superfluous. Why am I saying that? It provides for the offsetting of both debts, the established public accounting law. If we open him up, he's predicting that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u262	It's anticipating, Mr. Cammene. Two. As regards the costs for the supply and service of hospitals, it is good first to extend the deadline, but I am connecting it to my point of view and to the third assessment, as the Government had said in 2016 that the costs incurred from 1 January 2015 to 30 October 2016 are considered lawful. We therefore have a form of expenditure that needs to be paid, but without full legality. We shall therefore vote on this amendment 'at present'. To conclude, I will say that there is something positive about Amendment No 1549/37, but I am annoyed by the following: the organization of the Ministry of Shipping was introduced by a Presidential Decree. He either had so many mistakes, which escaped and must be corrected or was a product of vague legislature or something else he saw. That does not mean that I will be put to the vote negatively, but what I was interested in was not to come by law, but that the organization of a ministry and its amendments always come by a presiding decree, so that it could be put under the torture and the Council of State, so that we could have an image and the legality of the arrangements, because whether we want it or not, Parliament cannot judge these technical issues. However, since the positions of the Ministry are formulated and we see that there is also a direction towards maritime education that should, at least, be cured, we will not say 'no'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Otherwise - and I shall end immediately, Mr President - I am only saying this: I was expecting a legislative improvement in relation to the entry into force of the rules of the law. That is where I am concerned. He'll have problems - he says - the improvement you've brought. Articles 1 to 9 shall enter into force on the first October 2017, unless otherwise specified in the individual provisions. Where was it set differently?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u263	Article 8(3).
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u264	Just one case.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u265	Yeah, but that's about the whole thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u266	Just one case, we don't have the whole thing. I had expressed myself for the whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u267	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u268	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. We therefore stand by and wait to talk about the amendment concerning the time of the vote at the time of the vote with a very short position. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, too. The question of finding doctors, which you have raised, is right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u270	I feel the need to say this, Mr President, because we have a huge leak of medical personnel.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u271	That's why I'm going to comment on it. The question is not to find doctors, which is self-evident, but to whom, because when the European market gives them three or four times the pay, it is difficult to keep a body that, due to philosopheria, will be left here with less pay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u272	Let's find the tools to do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u273	That's the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u274	But at another meeting!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u275	Yeah, we can't solve this right now. Mr. Kouzilos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u276	There is a lot of it, Mr President. Thank you very much. I would like to start with what you have not responded to us, Minister, such as what you intend to do from now on for the Internal Affairs Service, such as when Article 65 is to be activated and when there will be a legislative improvement in Article 112 of Law 4504. I have also explained to you before that in the next one or two years, we will certainly have a serious problem with masters, engineers, navigators for the floats, and I would like to ask if you intend to do some recruitment, if you have studied this, if you have seen what the whole framework is right now, if that is enough. About what you said about ral. I say this again and I will say it other times: it's not only three at the RAL, it's three at the IAL, it's also on several other bodies on the right and left. That is why we proposed and told you that a person from the retired who has the knowledge and experience to be able to give some advice - a non-executive member - and since we are also talking about transparency, another person who defines it, who will be in formal and practical qualifications so that there can be full transparency. That's how we save people and there'll be specialized staff at the ral that needs it. Because we have now said that it will certainly need people, from what we have heard from the President of RAL, Mr Angelopoulos, through ASP, it will take 12 people. I would like to stand by and say that we will soon have various solutions and legislative initiatives in relation to the daily life of the representatives of the Port Authority, where there are too many of the problems that exist at the moment. There are still problems. I now go to the late amendment on the repayment of benefits to shipping workers, which of course we agree. It is something the NEL workers have been asking for for for a long time, as there is this problem. I am sure that this provision will also be followed by other problems that will be tackled in the future on this subject. I would point out again and say that I was very impressed by seeing the new Board of Directors of the NGO, where we see a Chinese executive member. Is it 'COSCO' again in? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, too. Ms. Manolakou, four minutes is it all right for your dentology?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u278	I will try to reach you, Mr President. Listening to Minister Kurublis, I have to tell you this: To do protective courses on the rights of seafarers, Mr Minister, to the JRC is funny, at least. And even invoke Article 10 to convince you that your bill is not an anti-virtual abortion. What can I tell you? The stones would also laugh. It states that seafarers are to be protected in accordance with the Articles of Law 330/1976. Do you know that law who it is? It is the law of Laskaris, which was then told in the House the famous "I will not allow the struggle of order". That's when the biggest mobilizations took place. Why? Because he was hitting the right to strike. There has been an old condemnation from everywhere, and you have even been in mobilisation and now you are invoking this very law that the shipowners are using and still today to ban the strike only on seafarers. Because only the sailors do. So instead of abolishing it - three years you are a government - you come to tell us that you are defending the rights of seafarers and you are not with the shipowners. But the laws themselves disguise you. You've crossed hypocrisy, and it's embarrassing. Not to tell you that Laskaris' bones would be rubbed with joy! As far as Article 17 is concerned. Really, don't you know what's modifying this article? It amends Article 3 of the Act on Tourist Ships and Other Provisions 2014. And, in fact, what does that law do? It enables tourist ships to carry - previously so it wrote - up to ninety passengers at sea without even organic composition, i.e. seafarers with a specific rating. And Article 3, which also had voted against by the SYRIZA spokesman, was then Mr Samoilis, I have the Minutes and the law - what did he anticipate? It provided for the abolition of dd 177/1974 on organic compositions of ships, i.e. the removal of cabotage. I will now come to the amendments. I referred to some at first. But look at the ministerial amendment which Mr Pappas replied to, he did not answer us about the debts of millions in the post office if he would require them to be paid by employers and states in favour of the workers' funds, at a time when employees pay twice as much contributions and services have been reduced to them. We are voting against it. I shall now refer to the amendment from the Ministry of Shipping. The majority of teachers are well-off. In fact, the Coordinating Committee of KESEN engineers at a general meeting made a number of requests, one of which was the abolition of D.E.183 and other ministerial decisions setting minimum permanent jobs. It requested recruitment of permanent training staff on the basis of the actual needs. Your amendment does not solve such issues, but three-speed teachers are maintained: private law of indefinite duration, permanent and mature, who are the majority. We will be expressing ourselves with 'the present', because we consider it to be half. I move on to the parliamentary amendments and, in particular, to 1541 concerning the transport of garbage by passenger ships. The truth is that there is a problem on our islands and that must be solved. However, additional measures must be taken to protect public health of passengers present. Because these waste is deformed - at least one week - and the abomination in summer is great, so it must be included 'The waste water has been washed before and does not exceed fifteen cubic cubics' - it is great for us to vote positively. Otherwise, we will be expressing ourselves with 'the present'. To conclude, I would like to say that in an amendment by the Ministry of Health, which has the two articles, we would like to be separate, because in the first we are positive, and in the second we will be expressed by the 'present'. If they are incorporated, we will have to say 'the present'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u279	Thank you very much. Now, Mrs Manolakou, I don't know if the bones are trembling with joy. They usually tremble with indignation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u280	I agree, but what can we do? A little too much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u281	We're moving on with Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u282	I am not going to answer that question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u283	Very pleasant, Mr. Vice President. You're making it easier for us. We're moving on with Mr. Cavadela.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u284	Neither will I, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u285	Thank you very much. Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u286	I, Mr President, have only a good resurrection to tell you about dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u287	Good Resurrection I wish to you and everyone. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr President. I noticed something, Mr. Carras, before I started with the bill. You said you wanted to make a central party. That is how I heard, Mr President, and I am addressing you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u289	Progressive, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u290	Centre progressive party.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u291	And socialist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u292	Neither to the right nor particularly to the left. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u293	Referring to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u294	Central left I think it identifies the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u295	I determined it to both the right and the left to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u296	Let's go down. Mr. Athanasios, I will insist on Article 24. Look at the '98' '98 n.B. 55. Look at it. On this basis, all penalties for such infringements are imposed. Based on this, since '98.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u297	But it's reduced compared to the '73s.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u298	You don't understand. For "Athens ZONI" it was imposed 1.200,000, not 60,000. Paragraph 6 has now become inactive since 1998. How many times do we have to say it? It's clear what we're talking about. Read it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u299	We read it and didn't see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u300	As far as the remarks made by Mr Kouzilos are concerned, I cannot tell you much. We will also discuss other legislative initiatives. It was said that there might be a gap, especially to the governors and engineers. Probably in the next few years to see a corrective move in this respect, obviously through ASP and not through bars in Koroni as it has been for so many years and Mr Dritsas changed it with the last intakes. Mrs Manolakou spoke of Article 10 and Laskaris. Mrs Manolakou, this is not about team redundancies in Article 10. You fly an article 10, saying, 'Get it down'. Article 10 is to ensure the unaffected exercise of the duties of seafarers' representatives in the special negotiating group and in the European Works Council, where in these articles the law may have been bad overall. In these articles, however, it provided that it was not possible for the employer to terminate the contract of employment of those who participated as workers' representatives, i.e. it cannot dismiss the trade unionists. That's what we're saying. If that's bad, what can I say? Let's go to Article 17 now. You didn't understand it again. We're not talking about 12 workers. We are talking about vessels which have a protocol, that is, passengers, not workers and transport capacity up to 12 people. These couldn't make professional voyages. Usually these boats take them two people who have naval capacity - that is, they have a skiper licence - and they go on holiday without a crew. What kind of seawork are you talking about? I don't understand that, and it makes me very impressed. I agree with what you say about permanent staff and we bring hundreds of permanent staff. Hey, won't you even vote for that? What can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u301	We said 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u302	I don't think there are any other provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u303	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Maritime and Island Policy is adjourned: "Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2015/1794 and other provisions". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u304	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u307	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u308	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u310	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u312	Therefore, the bill of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Integration into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2015/1794 and other provisions’, was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u316	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u317	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u318	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u321	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u326	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u327	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u330	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u334	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u335	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u339	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u344	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u348	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u353	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u357	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u361	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u362	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u366	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u370	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u371	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u375	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u379	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u380	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u381	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u384	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u388	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u389	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u393	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u396	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u397	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u398	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u400	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u402	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u403	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u404	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u407	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u408	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u411	Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u413	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u415	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u416	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u418	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u420	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u422	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u424	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u425	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u427	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u429	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u431	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u436	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u438	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 15 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u440	Oh, no. GEORGIOS - PUBLIC HEART OF Presents.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u441	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u442	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u444	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u446	Article 15 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u449	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u450	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u453	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u454	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u455	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u457	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u460	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u464	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u468	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u469	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u472	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u473	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u477	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u482	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 20 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u484	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u485	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u486	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u487	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u490	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u491	Article 20 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u493	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u495	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u499	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u500	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u504	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u508	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u509	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u512	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u513	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u517	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u518	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u520	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u522	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u523	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u527	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u529	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u531	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u532	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u536	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u538	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u541	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u544	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u545	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number of 1546 and a special number 34, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u547	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u549	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u551	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u552	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u553	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u554	Therefore, Amendment No 1546, and Amendment No 34, was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote, and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept Amendment Nos 1547 and 35, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u557	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u558	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u561	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u562	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u563	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1547 and a special 35 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same articles. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of No 1548 and a special number of 36?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u565	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u566	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u567	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u568	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u570	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u571	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u572	The amendment, by a general number of 1548 and a special 36, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1549 and a special number 37 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u574	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u575	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u576	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u577	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u578	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u579	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u580	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u581	The amendment, by a general number 1549 and a special 37, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of Nos 1539 and 32 as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u583	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u584	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u585	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u586	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u588	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u589	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u590	Therefore, Amendment No 1539 and a special 32 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of Nos 1541 and 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u592	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u593	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u594	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u595	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u596	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u597	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u598	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u599	The amendment, under general number 1541 and a special 33, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under the general number 1551 and a special number 39 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u602	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u603	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u605	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u606	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u607	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u608	Therefore, Amendment No 1551, and a special 39, was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u610	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u612	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u613	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u617	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Integration into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2015/1794 and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u620	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u621	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u622	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u623	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u625	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u626	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Integration into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2015/1794 and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u627	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u628	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we will interrupt the sitting for a few minutes and continue at 6 p.m. with parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u629	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Four questions will be discussed today. We are beginning with the joint debate on two questions of substance. This is the second question under number 1389/26-2018 of the Second Cycle of the Parliamentary Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Harulas (Haras) Kefalidou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Keals of Nikiforos Dramas and their staff: Lies"? Also for the first with number 3508/14-2-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by the Deputy Drama of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "The founding of a transfer and court department of Dramas and his staff with the necessary staff. Ensuring with the necessary staff of the Drama detention facility.’ We therefore propose that these two questions should be debated together, because they are to the same Minister and refer about the same subject, without, of course, affecting the rights of the speakers in their speaking time, by applying the provision in paragraph 4 of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure. In other words, the MPs will speak for two minutes in their protology and three minutes in their denology, and the Minister will have six minutes in his protolog and six in his denture, with one tolerance in time. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u630	Thank you very much and I ask, if it is easy, Madam President, that I have more time in my first speech to develop this issue. I will begin with a very brief history. It's been 15 years since the prisons were made at Nikiforos Dramas. The play is timed and it's not over. In 2015 you, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, and you modify all studies, increasing the number of beds from a hundred to two hundred. This new design of yours, obviously, isn't it done on the leg or is it done? Why? Because you have taken note of the fact that there is a legitimate precondition for the construction of a new special building for the training and vocational training of detainees. A new building means a new contraction. In your announcements you set as the time of delivery of the prison building on May 31, 2016. For all this, there are the written answers you have given, as Ministry, to the questions that have been tabled. Essentially we arrive in December 2016. The Minister of Criminal Policy of the Ministry of Justice, who is pleased and honoured to be with us today, is visiting the detention store Nikiforos Dramas. The visit I have to tell you is done with all secrecy, because it happens every time governmental stadiums or executives or ministers visit our prefecture. The Vice-Population Members are never invited and never informed. All these meetings are a strict case of SYRIZA - ANEL and of necessity have little of self-government. While we were expecting this visit by the government official to be completed with a binding recruitment schedule, we were surprised to hear the statement that prisons could not function because there was a whole building missing. The government obviously knew because he knew the changes he made. We're not. Surprise continued when Mr. Phytrakis pointed out to us that he could not commit himself to an exact date. So, I'm sure we've caught November 2017. Ask a question - application for documents on November 1, 2017, which I have submitted to you, you answer: “The most important factor in the operation of the Drama detention store is to ensure the necessary staff. Already in the AAP, the Ministry of Justice's request for the recruitment of some six hundred staff for detention stores throughout the country has already been approved by the relevant ministries for economic and administrative reconstruction. Therefore, the notice of the AACC is immediately expected’. In November 2017, the topical questions continue and you answer that the detention store Nikiforos will also be provided through this notice. As you say: "Today we have 2017, these are planned for 2018, we will be ready and within 2018 the necessary locations will be made." In December 2017, questions continue. There is another colleague from Serres Prefecture who asks to be informed about Nigritas detention store and asks you, firstly: "When is it finally planned to operate the almost ready two years ago Nikiforos Dramas detention store?" and, secondly, ‘Is there any care to be taken to serve it by means of a notice of new posts?’. I would remind those who do not know that Nigritas and Nikiforos prisons are associated, because in Nigritas prisons they work for more than 40 employees from Drama Prefecture. So if the Nikiforos prisons open, it is assumed that they will request a transfer to be close to their home place. The question therefore concerned the possibility of subscribing to Nigrita prisons. So, then, you respond that "By d.d.153/2017 was founded in the Municipality of Paracenter of the Regional Unit of Drama, the detention store of Drama. Its structure and responsibilities shall be laid down in that Presidential Decree and shall, of course, follow the process of setting up and serving them. The possibility of staffing through the notice was not possible, as at the time of signature of the approval decision by the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and the Ministry of Finance on 20-7-2016, the Drama detention store was not in existence, because it became much later through the FEK, which came out in the Government's Official Journal on 21-12-2017.’ Because the answers have raised more questions and blur the image, the Minister asks the very simple question: finally, which of the two documents we have in our hands, which of the two answers you have given us, is the Ministry lying? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u631	Mr. Kyriazidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u632	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, many times we have been controlled and, of course, we have also received penalties, I mean fines, by the European Union, regarding the need to dismantle prisons. Unfortunately you have not done so to date, although there were similar shops such as Nikiforos Dramas, which you received - I would say - at a point of closure. However, we go to the fourth year and that has not been possible on your part. On the contrary, we saw the release of criminals of insurmountable crimes. The prisons, however, remain 'inhabitant', although they would also provide for the prison conditions appropriate to them. Because prisoners are also human beings and they need a special - I would say - approach. You answer to me in April 2015 that the implementation of the work aimed at completing in July 2015 - after a quarter that was - was a possibility. Unfortunately, we are now in 2018. I repeat the same question and, of course, I do - I would say - something positive from your predecessor's point of view that there is a procedure and that there is a procedure ahead of us in order to hire six hundred and thirty-three people to strengthen detention shops. I am constantly coming back to the same issue, which, of course, now - I would say - has become a joke. You answer me: “This year in November is the competition of the ASAP and in 2018 will be the recruitments and not the 2017 one we now have. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled for 2018. We will be ready and within 2018 the necessary locations will be made." That's what you're answering. To my colleague Serres on a similar subject, for the Nigritas detention store, you are responding to the Nikiforos detention store, where you now refer it to the unknown future and say: "The things are different. We will see if any amounts are secured. In any case, we will try 2019 and possibly then, because we are waiting for the delivery of this booking store by the company "Building Infrastructures". Mr. Paradoxopoulos, in a debate we had held, had promised that there was a chance that there could be at least one wing. We saw something similar happen at Nigrita's detention store. Unfortunately this remains there as it is, haunted. I'll see you then, Minister. Of course the local SYRIZA assured us that within the first half of 2018 the prisons will be in operation, as will the militia that has been created in our place, which strengthened this very position that in the first half of 2018, this project would finally be in operation, so that it could enter into operation as an issue not a development issue, but in any case see the taxpayer Greek citizen, who has so far made more than 30 million. Unfortunately, I do not think it will be done, despite any commitments. Perhaps today you can tell us something different from your other version. We've heard too many versions in here. In any case, we are waiting for your answer, in order to add a few things in my dentext, in the hope that something human will be done there for the inhabitants, but also a haunted building will finally end.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u633	Minister, you have the floor for six minutes for your first speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u634	Thank you, Madam President. Before I respond to the two colleagues, Mrs Kefalidou and Mr Kyriazides, I will make a few brief references, because the situation now goes beyond any previous references to the press - it has nothing to do with the political parties - on the process of granting grace by the President of the Republic. Madam President, yesterday and today they saw the light of the publicity of articles and reports to which they refer: 'THE FIRST THEME': 'Condones gave ten years of squatting and a fine to a drug dealer', the newspaper by Mr Marinakis, 'THEA': 'It deletes sentences from a drug dealer Kontonis' and 'FOREIGN TYPOS', and it is for him not to be missing: 'To whom is Kontonis's sentences'. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr Stavros Kontonis presents for the minutes the above mentioned publications, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] First of all, Madam President, I would like to say and inform Parliament that, on the basis of the constitutional forecasts, the President of the Republic provides it and provides it, after the opinion of the Harita Council, with two public prosecutors and officials and chaired by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Justice. Then there is no proposal from the competent Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, so that you can see what will mean misinformation and false evidence and false reports and false news, who was involved in this case, the drug dealer Kontonis doing a favor and erasing the sentence? It was a man of ours who had suffered the offence described at the age of twenty-two, served his sentence, released under the relevant article of the Criminal Code and during his detention, managed, ladies and gentlemen, this man to end the Department of Engineering of the TEI of Chalkida with an excellent degree of more than 8. Then he gave graduations to the National Metsovio Polytechnics and succeeded in the ranking examinations first. He graduated with an impressive degree, perfect 9.38. So this man had written in all the tests and in all the tests he had given 10, with a few little lessons he would have written 9 and then accepted by Cambridge to draw up his doctoral thesis. It is to wonder, ladies and gentlemen. This man is the epitome that with all the shortcomings, with all the weaknesses, what anyone can say about the penitentiary system, something is produced. And not just that. He also submits his papers to continue with higher education in America, where the existence of the registration penalty does not give him the opportunity to receive a visa for an American university. That is the case, ladies and gentlemen. In this case, the Harita Council is positively consulted. I, too, propose to the President of the Republic, who decides that he should be given thanks to this fellow citizen, who is a man, who has fallen into an early age into a serious crime, but who has followed a course, a route and served his sentence. Because here it says that the sentence has been passed, but no sentence has been given. This prisoner was normally released, served his sentence. What was given was the amount of money that was imposed on him because he was unable to cope. This is the situation, ladies and gentlemen, and in this way false news is being created, and beyond that false news is being created about the political situation, false news is being created of 'human-discipline', for a man who, as I said, has been subjected to a crime, has been punished for it, has served his sentence and wants to open new roads and horizons in his life. I come to the two questions from honourable Members, my colleague and my colleague. First of all, I would like to say that no change has been made by us in terms of the project. The only exception was the creation of an area of vocational training. Because, unfortunately, the original plan was not planned and you know what importance we give - and I think you all understand that - on this issue. As far as capacity is concerned, it has not changed. We have two hundred cells, which can house six hundred prisoners. The Secretary-General's contacts were service contacts, they were nothing more. It was an autopsy, an audit that also had a discussion with service actors. As far as the fines mentioned by Mr Kyriazidis are concerned, there were indeed fines, Mr President, but because of the situation in prisons. Now with the present government, we have no fines.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u635	After you released them, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u636	With our policy - and one can criticise certain aspects, of which I believe we have been dealt with by the last regulation, on the issue of conditional dismissal - there are not only fines, but there are also children by the Council of Europe and by all international bodies. As far as the course of the case is concerned, since November I replied to you, Mr Kyriazidis, four things have been completed, which I must report to you. First of all - and it is the most important one - published the e.g. 153/2017, the booking store will operate with five departments, administration, economic, social, security, external guarding. The Presidential Decree, ladies and gentlemen, you realise that it was the foundation stone, because without that there could be no planning and no planning. Unfortunately, he was unresolved. When I replied to you, Mr Colleague, I told you that his extradition was imminent and, indeed, it was in 2017. Secondly, the funds from the state budget, from the Ministry of Justice for the functions and operating expenses of the detention shop amounting to EUR 800,000 to EUR 1 million have been secured to date. This money has been finalised by the state budget. Third, a certificate was issued for the completion of the work by the CBC on 22-12-2017 and the final measure was approved - we have finished the measurement - on 26 March 2018. Fourthly, the process of setting up staff seats has already begun, in other words, the calculation of the number and specificities of staff necessary for the operation of the shop. I would like to inform you that once this procedure has been completed - and it will be completed soon - a law will come in the House, which will finalise this definition. What's going on? Under way is the auctioning of the building of education and vocational training by the CIS. The CFP is the body that manages public buildings and has been integrated into it, where only unification and volume of work have a problem. He is the body supervised by the Ministry of Infrastructure. So that's what I'm telling you. It's going on. There was a delay here, from what I was informed, from the Ministry of Infrastructure, because concerning the new building there was a dimension with the old and the new contractor. However, this is a legal issue, it will be completed and we will be done. The auction is moving on. The second is the process of supplying prison equipment again by the CIS. Thirdly, the recruitment process of six hundred prison officers, to which Mrs Kefalidou referred in particular. I would like to say this here: Immediately the notice of the AACC is imminent. The APA, the Higher Personnel Selection Board, is an Independent Authority, which has its rules of operation and time. We push this thing as soon as possible. I would like to clarify that I replied to Mr Kyriazidis in November on the recruitment of six hundred officials. If they become, ladies and gentlemen, the process of the AACC and the recruitment is completed, it is very easy to manage, because this will be possible, even if they are not mentioned - because they are not mentioned - at the detention store Nikiforos you are asking me. We'll have for all the detention stores plus six hundred employees. So it's too easy. That's why I said that the completion of the contest will help to staff this reservation store as well. I think that's cleared up. That is exactly what I said to Mr Kyriazidis in November when I replied. What's got to be done? Firstly, the water supply process must be completed, ladies and gentlemen. You who are from the area know that there is a problem with the Municipality of Paranestion on water supply, because the municipality must be subjected to an expense for pumping, which will ensure the uninterrupted water supply of the detention shop. Project testing should also be carried out to ensure that the installations are properly operated. Once staff posts are set up with the law I have told you, a request will be made for the approval of an equivalent number of staff. We must not, in other words, remain in a temporary condition, based on the number of servants as a whole, plus the six hundred, who hope to have the force as soon as possible, but who now have their place in the detention store. What are the further steps? We have been informed by the CFP that the project will be received by October, because that is what the contract requires. We are making an effort on the part of the Ministry of Justice, the receipt of the work to take place as soon as possible and not to the ultimate limits laid down in the convention. It will work immediately - I tell you this thing responsibly - once this process of hiring the six hundred employees from the AACC has been completed. I repeat it once again. Because without these six hundred employees, no secondment by any other detention store can be made. That is what I had answered to my fellow Member Serres, Mrs Arabatzi, if I remember well, who had asked. There can be no secondment, because there will be a major issue in the other detention shops and especially in the neighbouring ones. That is all, Madam President. Thank you for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u637	Thank you. I take the view that you will not give a second answer, because you have said all of your suggestions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u638	I shall clarify something, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u639	Okay. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u640	Minister, I would like to tell you that we have arrived in April 2018. You have widely advertised a project that has troubled the county and its inhabitants. You share good words and hope in the world and I could go on asking you this: Six hundred people need for all detention stores, without Nikiforos Prisons, six hundred you say we also need Nikiforos Prisons. So someone's gonna be subordinated. Why the answers you have given...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u641	I didn't say that, you were wrong. Six hundred are the prisoners, not the employees.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u642	Six hundred and thirty-three people are the proclamation you've made of penitentiary staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u643	Don't confuse it with the penitentiaries who'll be employed in the store. We haven't come up yet. We are, I told you, in the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u644	Watch out. You're saying you've been authorized for six hundred via AEPI to serve the penitentiary stores in Greece, and I say. Six hundred have taken without calculating the Nikiforos Prisons, because you say he was out of your design when you took off the contract. Six hundred, then, without planning with the Nikiforos Privileges. Six hundred including Nikiforos Prisons. So someone's gonna be locked up. And we all know what is to be left behind, what has not yet been completed, is still in the auction, we are still waiting. Because quite simply the picture that is currently in the prefecture of Drama is that the water supply is over, and the biological is done, and all we expect is done, at least that sounds from the most official SYRIZA lips in the prefecture, they are the recruitments. To tell you the truth, all the fuss is about whether or not there will be traceability in recruitment. That's where we've arrived. I want to say to you, by ending that in general what you do to SYRIZA, is that you think that because you're making commitments, which you're not going to implement and you're going to leave the hardships to others, it's an inexperience to say that we're moving forward. Because you think and insist on your lies, at the end of the day, where will it go? Someone's gonna squeeze, someone's gonna believe. You should know, Minister, that the draminos are good people, but we do not live in the country of the Lottery and we have a crisis. Because everything we say here is recorded, we have it in writing, I would ask that there be a commitment to recruitment in this prison. The six hundred thirty penitentiaries throughout Greece are something that does not include us and is absolutely clear to anyone who reads your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u645	Thank you, Mrs. Kefalidou. Mr. Cryazides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u646	Minister, you have created more confusion. We're in trouble. You threw us in the ocean. Anyway, I don't know exactly where we're going to end up. What for? You are telling us that in April 2015, there was only one water supply issue left. In 2015, imagine! We're entering the fourth year and we're in the water supply, so we can get to know the amount left. The project was completed on 31-10-2017- the "Residential Infrastructures" said it - and a certificate was issued, as you said, after two months, so the project has been completed. Now you will reveal to us that there will have to be a new tender concerning the training centre, which we will see at the end of the year, etc. ........................................ It concludes that the "infrastructures" are the actions required below, which have nothing to do with what you have mentioned. So the issue is staffing. And you answer - and we will testify all this - that the ability to staff through this notice is not possible and you are talking about Nikiforos detention store. You report this at the beginning of the year. You knew in November when you replied to me about the extradition of the Presidential Decree. You forgot about Nikiforos detention store in September when you issued the decree and then forced you to issue a new decree. So it should be included.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u647	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u648	Yes, Minister, isn't it? Didn't you issue a presidential decree in September? And after a month you remembered to issue another presidential decree, because you hadn't included the Nikiforos detention store and that now you separate it and say that another proclamation is now available as programming and then another one. So don't expect that. This has now been said, it has become an estate to all of us that this shop is not going to work. However, since the contractor has handed over the work, Minister, the contractor has a clause that the Greek taxpayer pays. But because we are in a pre-election period, as happened with the vertical axis of Drama - Amphipolis announced and re-summised, you are doing so today, on an issue that is not developmental, but in any case, something would provide Drama with, which is obviously only in the run-up to the elections. But now I would like to say that it is too late for you and Drama, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u649	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u650	Ladies and gentlemen, I thought that with the timetable and the actions that have been taken, it is in progress and are going to be done, the question would have been resolved completely. Unfortunately, however, my fellow Members have come back, and indeed with an extreme phrase,'speakings' and similar expressions. I would like to say that I understand that the Democratic Integration is in a confusion at this time, because it must end up who is right, Mrs Gennimata or Mr Venizelos, on the Revision of the Constitution, and is engaged in an extreme phrase. It's okay. I will, however, repeat some things. I told you again that since November I asked the House by Mr Kyriazides, four important steps have been taken for a detention shop, which - I will agree - for years have been seen by the people of Drama to exist and had not been taken by the previous governments. We've received this and I'm telling you again...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u651	90% delivered you in 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u652	All right, Mr. Cryazides. I heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u653	Mr. Cryazides, let it be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u654	That's exactly what I told you. The Presidential Decree was issued and has nothing to do with the Presidential Decree of September describing the agency. Another presidential decree is one, another is for the establishment of a detention store. That's it. The appropriations, which is very important and you had to say something, from 800,000 to 1 million. A certificate of completion of the project has been issued by the CCBC and the measurement has been carried out. From November to today, these procedures have been completed. And I told you that since we have this in our hands, the process of creating staff has also begun. I also told you that within the next period, we will also have the law that provides for these things. The government is therefore moving quickly towards procedures, but they must be complied with. It can't be done differently. About what you said about water supply and biological, Mrs. Kefalidou, the biological is indeed ready. We didn't tell any lies. What's the problem? Water supply. Because you know that, too - I have been informed that you have also been self-government - that water supply is a matter which relates to the exclusive competence of the municipalities. Here, then, is an issue of an expense that the municipality of the region considers to be high for pumping power. Without water, if this big issue is not solved, it cannot work a booking store. I think it's going to be solved. We'll see how...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u655	Help.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u656	But that's exactly what I'm telling you. But this biological, which is the responsibility of the Justice Department, we solved it, it's all right, we're done there. With the other issue that is not the exclusive competence of the Ministry of Justice, so don't say we're lying. That's why I made the report at first.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u657	For the penitentiaries, tell us about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u658	Now watch out for the penitentiaries. You make a point, which I will tell you in advance is not unfounded. It has a reasonable basis. What are we waiting for? We expect this process to end. I told you the procedure is under way. In fact, we urge the Higher Staff Selection Council to speed up the recruitment of some six hundred penitentiaries. If we have these six hundred, Mrs. Kefalidou, they really aren't enough, but we can do the necessary distractions to operate the booking store. If these recruitments are not completed, it is impossible to do anything else. I'm telling you this thing...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u659	So do you pledge that there will be staff for Nikiforos prisons in six hundred?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u660	Watch out. If the six hundred - how many of them are - penitentiaries, we will be able to extract the necessary number of prisoners in the detention store Nikiforos. If we do not have these six hundred for all of Greece, however, then it is impossible to move on, because there are already gaps. That's what I told you. We have a plan, so that by hiring these people to proceed automatically with the secondment of the staff needed for the first phase. Let me conclude, Madam President, and say this: I, too, believe that structures which have begun must be completed in a short time. I told you the problems with the CCTB and the workload they have. You Members of Northern Greece know what a terrible situation not only prisons but courtesys are. I visited the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of Kilkis and we have a first provision to finish these loose ends. Because if you have visited them and know where fellow lawyers and judges are on trial, you will be surprised at the third-world conditions. And that's a situation...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u661	We know, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u662	That's exactly why, right now, and the CCTB and the Ministry of Justice are making a great effort, as far as the building infrastructure is concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u663	We really want to believe you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u664	You must believe me, because you have seen, Mr Kyriazidis, that since November when I was asked, I have told you four fundamental steps. What I told you in November, we did and others are in progress.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u665	As I told you, we want to believe you, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u666	So there's no way...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u667	Come on, Mr. Cryazides. We won't be staying for an hour on that question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u668	I'm answering you, and I know you're asking me in good faith. We are doing all these things so that we can finish the commitments we have made as soon as possible and in the best possible way. Mr. Delis is laughing. He hears, it seems, things that extinguish his imagination.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u669	I'm not laughing at you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u670	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u671	I'm telling you that the best proof of what I'm saying is what has been done. In November, I promised you what I said to you today that they would be completed and completed. The only delay I see here is the opening of the AACC competition, but you still know that this is not entirely dependent on the government, not much more than on the Ministry of Justice. We have an independent authority here. All we can do - and we do - is ask for these procedures to be accelerated. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u672	Do not set time, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u673	Come on, Mr. Cryazides. It will not be a matter of such a long time today. Now we will discuss the third with number 1376/21-3-2018 a top-level question from the MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMMAR Mr.Ioannis Manniatis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Only 350 euros are received by the five thousand candidates from the country. They are treated as businessmen'. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Catherine Papanatziou, will answer. Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u674	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, we have heard splendid expressions from the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras and from the government, that the country must move - and the government supports them - on innovation, research, technology and at the same time support the country's new generation. One of the most important sections of the new generation of the country, Minister, is the five thousand candidates in the country and the corresponding postdoctoral students. We're talking about the most dynamic part that has two very basic features. The first is that it is extremely high scientific level, since it has now been entrusted by the universities, by the TEIs, by the "ELGO - DIMITRA" or by the "EKO DIMMOCRITOS", the preparation of a doctoral thesis. The second feature is that they work and work for three or four years on priority issues for the development of the country and the development of science. How do we now treat these people who are in fact the hope of our homeland, to overcome our scientific and technological backwardness? We treat them fiscally as if they were businessmen. Instead of treating them like this little part of the candidate doctorate who manages and receives a scholarship - because the scholarship is not taxed - instead we treat these people - in cases where they have occasionally been employed, for a few months, for a short time in competitive programs of Greek universities, that is to say, in programmes that have brought their money to Greece, which are not the money of the Greek public, but is money from competitive European programmes - we are therefore facing the candidates as entrepreneurs and we are taxing them, that is, 29% tax, 27% insurance contributions and 3.6% paper. This means that from an income of EUR 1,000 that these people can get for a month, about 350 euros to keep them in the pocket and the rest to go to the state. The proposal we are presenting to you, Minister, is very simple. For these cases of the candidates for doctors paid by the research programmes of the Greek universities, TEI, the "Democritus" or "ELGO - DIMITRA" from competitive programs and only for these fees, these revenues should be treated as scholarships for any period of time, so that instead of Brain drain, which continues to exist the exit of the country's brains and even the highest level, we can keep this part of the youth in our country. I believe that this is an action that the country's tax administration can take. May the Ministry of Finance support such an initiative and it is very clear that the whole Opposition will support an initiative that will keep here in Greece these five thousand children who prepare doctoral thesis or do postdoctoral studies. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u675	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u676	Thank you, Madam President. In reply to your question, Mr Colleague, on the treatment of the remuneration of Greek candidates, I would like to inform you that under the provisions of the Code on Income Tax, income from employed labour, pension income, income from business, income from capital and capital gains from capital transfer. Therefore, income derived from one of these categories is taxed on that basis. From there on, however, we have to stress that the incomes of employed persons and incomes from business are also tax-free on certain categories. From there on, as regards the grants to which you referred or the prizes granted by the public or other bodies, they are not subject to any of the recognised sources of income and are therefore not subject to tax. We have to say here that grants not falling within the above categories of income mean the sums paid by the public authorities, by other public or private bodies, such as legal persons governed by public law, by private law, institutions, public funds, private enterprises, etc., as financial aid to students of any recognised educational grade or vocational training, with a view to the continuation and completion of studies and the acquisition of qualifications for tuition fees, accommodation costs, feeding during their studies, for their awards due to exceptional performance in their studies. We also have prizes that do not fall within the conceptual scope of any income category and are understood as the sums paid to natural persons as monetary players or prizes by the public or other public or private bodies for their moral and material remuneration, as well as the recognition and approval of their individual abilities, performance or virtues. In addition, I would like to stress that, on the basis of the response we received from the Ministry of Education, Research and Religion, the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation, in the context of the action "First ECHR Scholarship for Candidate Doctors" supports 582 candidates with a monthly scholarship of EUR 900 and for up to 30 six months. The above amount, according to the call for action, is duty-free, except for the 3.6% reservation that you mentioned in your speech. Therefore, the net amount of scholarship received by each candidate doctorate is EUR 867,60. Let me inform you at this point that these conventions concern scholarships and are implemented by the respective HEIs. Therefore, it is not foreseen to treat them as contractors or as business fees. As far as other incomes are concerned, I shall return to secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u677	Mr. Maniatis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u678	Madam Minister, I fear that the content of my question has not been understood. To agree on the obvious: for many decades now, Greece, like all the countries of the world, has been giving scholarships. And all the countries in the world keep the scholarships they give to their candidate doctors tax-free this year, so the grants given by one institution or another, of about EUR 800 a year, obviously not taxed. It would be not unthinkable, but out of every logic of taxing scholarships. The question I raise with my question and the proposal I make to you is, just as it was not taxed and not taxed - and I hope that they will not be taxed in the future - the subsidies will not be taxed either by blocking or by proof of expenditure by the doctors, when - and only when - these candidate doctors provide services to laboratories in universities, TEI, the 'Digital' or the 'DIMITRA' on issues of the doctorate they are working on and when this money has even come from competitive European Union programmes. And you know very well - I am sure - that research is carried out mainly by these five thousand people. This is research in Greece. In essence, innovation, patents, technology are born and transformed into new products or services from these new people. So the proposal - and I would ask you very much to have your answer - is the money they receive, when they are collected - when they exist and for as long as they exist, because it is not a payroll, they take it for a few months and at some point stop this money, but it is extremely useful for these children to survive and not go abroad - that is, when their teacher finds a programme and manages to give them EUR 500 or 600, these EUR 500 or 600, which is money to survive young children, to tax them as a scholarship and not as an entrepreneur or free trader. I think it is perfectly understandable what I am describing and I am sure that, if you discuss it with every ordinary citizen, it will agree. Because the kids I'm telling you are the children next door, they're fighting and science to make their own future to make their homeland help. They're our kids next door. So these children who are deeply in need of elementary state support do not ask for money from the state, but they are asking for the EUR 600 they collect not to take 60% of them as being freelance professionals or business executives. I think it would be extremely good for the government if he could hear our proposal and adopt it. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u679	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u680	The provisions of the 2016 Act stipulate that from 23-12/2014 the costs of scholarships awarded by research centres or institutes or institutes and by the Foundation for State Grants are eligible for co-financing from operational programmes. The amounts granted from these causes shall not constitute income and shall not be subject to any tax or reservation. We're clear about that. Now let's go to the second part. There is the case of income paid by HEIs, TEIs and research committees, which are remuneration to undergraduate or postgraduate students, to be employed. There's the tax-free. So, in this case again, for the incomes you said, of EUR 500 and EUR 600, we have the tax. There's no...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u681	Since there's a tax withholding.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u682	There is no withholding tax at EUR 500-600 from hired work.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u683	Madam Minister, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u684	There is no tax withholding, because it is tax free up to 8,600 or more respectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u685	We're on. Business, where appropriate, depending on the employment relationship, and in particular those who acquire bloc income. In other words, those who have as their homes and since the service or work contracts are up to three employers or if they are not up to three employers and are above, but 75% come from one person, are also taxed on the employees' scale. They have the discount of the tax of EUR 1,900 to EUR 2,200. So in these cases both students and doctoral students have the reliefs that employees have or have the bloc in all companies. Similarly, in a document, which I shall be tabling, by the Ministry of Labour in cases where employment is up to two employers, there is the distribution of insurance contributions between insured persons and counterparties. In these cases, the educational centre must have the insurance contributions to the postdoctoral students. I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u686	Before we proceed with the next question...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u687	Tell Mr. Chakaloto. I am only talking about incomes derived from research programmes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u688	All right, Mr. Maniot. That's what he came to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u689	He's on a block.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u690	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a statement to make to this House. The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs submits its reports to the draft laws of the Ministry of National Defence: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Preparation of the Military Cooperation Agreement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Hasimite Kingdom of Jordan’. B. Other: ‘Principle of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of National Defence of Canada and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia and the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania and the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway and the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia and the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of Slovakia and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of Turkey as well as the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the United Nations and the Ministry of the Ministry of Defence of the United Nations in the Ministry of the Kingdom of Defence of the Republic of the United Nations, as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as to the Republic of the Republic of Development and the United Nations and the United Nations and the Republic of Development and the United Nations (SMic Republic of Development and the United Nations) We continue with the timely questions that are being deleted. We will not discuss the third with number 1377/21-3-2018 a topical question from the MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniatis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Liberation of Special Research Fund Accounts (E.L.E.K.) It is because of lack of competence. The first question will not be discussed under No 1402/27-2018, the first question of the first cycle of the Chios MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Restoration of problems in the operating rooms of the new wing of the Chios Hospital", due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis, on account of outstanding commitments. We will not discuss the second question with number 1397/26-2018 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Jason Fotella, on the subject: "Disclosures about CEDEFOP that expose the head of the Ministry of Health", due to the obstruction of the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, because of the unsettled obligations. We will not discuss the first with number 1398/26-2018 a topical question by MP I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Absence of the positions of Heads of State or Government", due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. We will not discuss the fourth question with number 1400/26-2018 in the second circle of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and the Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Transport equivalent and exclusion of Karpathos", due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. No discussion will be held on the fifth under No 1401/26-2018 topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Comparison of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance on the subject: “Difficult developments regarding the sale of EUCI”The National”, due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. We will not discuss the sixth question under number 1369/20-3-2018 in the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the New Democracy, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Sigi fish keeps the Ministry of Finance on the procurement of the Public Debt Management Agency (O.D.D.) with the investment bank Rothschild", due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Georgios Huliarakis, due to a workload. We will not discuss the seventh with number 1314/13-2018 topical question of the second question of the Deputy Laconia of the New Democracy, Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Suspension of operation of the Centre for Transport Supply as a Neo-collection Training Centre", due to the obstruction of the Minister of National Defence Mr. Panos Kammenos, because he states that he has covered the issue in earlier written written questions. We will not discuss the fourth question with No 1387/22-2018 in the first cycle of the MEP I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Antonios Gregos to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the abolition of the Air Decouple of Chrysoupolis", because the Minister of National Defence Mr. Panos Kammenos states that he has replied in writing to similar questions from Members of the same parliamentary group. We move on to the debate of the fifth under number 1408-27-2018, a timely question for the first time in the Greek Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problems of thousands of contractors (deputies and wages) of teachers. The current question will be answered by the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Constantine Gavroglou. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u691	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, with our question today, we also convey to Parliament the indignation, anguish and, of course, the fair demands of the thousands of deputy contractors of education. What are all these years asking for and with their recent major mobilizations, even more intense? But what other than the self-evident, their right to permanent and stable work, their right to have the same working rights as the permanent ones, as well as immediately elementary measures to support the costs of living their daily lives everywhere, where they are sent to schools throughout the country. I think it is well known that images of teachers moving in the beaches or in cars, especially in the tourist areas. All these twenty-three thousand contracted teachers who have been experiencing the nightmare of unemployment for years have been constantly living, Minister, in anguish as to whether they will be working next year, when and how many months they will be working, since the recruitment of alternates takes place in different phases, even after Christmas. They live with anguish about where to work, since they are sent each year to a different school in all parts of the country. They also live with anguish if they are to get sick, because then they are entitled to sick leave only for 15 days and if they happen to need more permission, then they are fired, even in those cases of a threatened pregnancy, as recently in Kosani. We had tabled a written question on that. Many young women teachers are faced with an inhuman dilemma: pregnancy and child or work? And so they are forced or fleeing their babies or take them from place to place each year, scattering their families. In fact, this modern barbarism that the army of these conventional teachers lives through your policy, of course, does not only break their own lives, it does not reveal the explosive shortages of thousands of vacancies in the schools that are temporarily swept away. In fact, this unacceptable situation also undermines the right of children of popular families to knowledge and education. What do you have to say, Minister, about all this and, above all, what do you intend to do? Will you immediately perpetuate all the contracted teachers so that the next school year will start in September without the known thousands of educational gaps? We're waiting for the answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u692	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u693	Thank you, Madam President. The issue of assistant teachers and teachers is one of the most serious problems facing our education today and is one of the most serious issues, because it increases the rate of alternates, while increasing the average age of the permanents. It is quite clear what I am saying. Even the institutions recognize this. That is why the government's priority is to ensure permanent appointments by the end of the supervision. We have said so with every tone that in October we will announce a number and a system of appointments. Now, here too, we have to consult on a number of other issues. For example, we should be very honest - and this is an appeal to the executives who also play an administrative role - in determining the gaps. We'll be ruthless where blanks are declared when they don't exist. Because we really want the opportunities we have today to make the best use of them for education. The second is that there have indeed been mobilisations. In fact, in these mobilizations, there were phenomena that should not exist. On the other hand, I would ask that there should be a debate on the substance of the matter with the federations and the alternates' representatives. We tried it at the Ministry of Education. I think it was very mature conversations. Last Thursday, the federations refused to meet with Mr Vernardakis, the Minister of State and myself. They had one thought, we respect it, but do not consider that at least the government is not taking the substitutes very seriously. But be careful, we should be very honest, and it should be your party when it says that all these substitutes are permanent. We should be clear about how education will be opened to young people too, unless we think that young people should be outside the educational institutions. We say, therefore, that we must consensually find a system of appointment so that there is a balance, that we take pre-services seriously, obviously there are people who have been moving for too many years, but at the same time we must also give young people the opportunity to get into education. Now, as far as licensing is concerned, they do not fall short of the licenses they take in the private sector. For example, for the matters of pregnancy you know that they are eight weeks before birth and nine weeks later, much less than the civil servants, but there is, do not consider that they do not exist. We have now arranged for post-Government food to be fed from now on to the officers' clubs, as well as we have ensured a 50% discount on their movement. Now on this issue, for which a lot of ink has indeed been spilled, to a certain extent to the impression that they are sleeping on cars, on the beaches, etc., is not responsible for the Ministry of Education and is not responsible for the Ministry of Education because the local government, by a law passed, is obliged to help its teachers. And, indeed, it seems to me that it is possible for wealthy municipalities not to help at all and in very poor municipalities, especially on our islands, to go before the assistant teachers and teachers and, at least, to take care of what can be taken care of. I would also appeal to you to call on local authorities to take their responsibilities, as far as the aid is concerned, which is obliged to give teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u694	Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u695	I shall start, Minister, from the latter, with regard to the necessary support measures, which I think every reasonable person recognises that they must be taken. Look, we were struck by the fact that you have confronted the rights of assistant teachers with the public, with the permanent ones, and you said that they are similar to those who have private. In other words, you have also, in an indirect way, opposed the rights of workers in the educational sector. This is always the case, and the rights in both workplaces are constantly decreasing. The question we have put is that particularly in sick leave, I think that workers in the same workplace should have exactly the same rights. Now, as regards the daily cost of living, food, accommodation, etc., it is of course easy to understand that this is due to the very low wages with which they are paid and which are not enough to be able to live in tourist areas, which of course have very high accuracy and very high cost of living. As far as the problem is concerned, you, of course, recognize it, as do the previous governments. They had no problem recognising the seriousness of this issue of assistants, offering them, like you, tea and sympathy. You, of course, continue and open a new round of promises, I think it is the third or the fourth one this time, saying that in October you will announce the number, after you have of course reached agreement with the institutions, of the appointments that will be made. I think that's a mockery now in the ears of all the thousands of teachers, because their request has been called out very loud in the last month, Minister, and outside the ministry, and the other day outside of Maximos. And the answer they got this time wasn't promises, it was MATs, it was chemicals, it was tear gas. It was the repression, i.e. the necessary accompanying complement, each time, of an anti-popular policy. From what we heard a moment ago, I think that the message of the last movements did not exactly get what the teachers were shouting, that is, 'the mockery' is now coming' and 'the simulation of all the alternates', so that schools can function in September. But we want to raise this issue in relation to this promise, the blurred, the vague proclamation that you make "if" and "if with the institutions" etc. But it is your government, Minister, who signed the surpluses - bloody, we - of state budgets up to 2022 - to be more than 3.5%, that is more than 7 billion. Where these surpluses come from is known. They come out of pension cuts, reductions in government spending on education, health, welfare. These will therefore continue until 2022. And for after 2022, your government has agreed to over 2%. So we see that this policy has no intention of stopping. It will also normally continue, of course, to wear another garment and it will be done in a different way. However, it will continue to exist in one way or another. So, on the basis of all this, we think that the fight of the alternates themselves alone, Mr Minister, which is close to the twenty-five thousand, and they are substitutes for themselves now, since there are cases of people who work for fourteen and more years - it is the one who will vindicate their demands and claims and we think they have nothing to expect from you and from government policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u696	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u697	If they have nothing to expect, it seems to me why you're asking us. I think they have to wait, and we proved it, because we hired them. And it is clear that within an incredibly narrow financial framework we are trying to do everything we can and this Greek society recognises it. Of course, I will not say that there are no mistakes. In this case, however, I have first stated that the issue of alternates must be resolved by permanent appointments. Because this does not only harm those people who operate on a daily basis too difficult to even in some cases unacceptable, but also in the education system as a whole. There is no controversy between public and private workers. Just listening to your question one has the feeling that they have absolutely no right to leave these people and that is not the case. In pregnancy, like I told you,
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u698	Fifteen days.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u699	No, it's not 15 days in pregnancy. It's eight weeks ago and nine weeks later. As to the possibility of finding relatively cheap accommodations in tourist places, you are absolutely right. That is why we have legislated the obligation of local government. And I don't understand why you guys don't talk, you don't press local government. That is something you should say in public. It is much easier to force the central government on something that it has no responsibility for than to go before local government. Look, if you think we're mocking alternates, it really doesn't make any sense to continue the debate. We don't think we're making fun of them. We're trying to find a solution. You, having the request for twenty-five thousand simulations now, I believe you are mocking them, because you know that is not a realistic request. You know that. However, you are saying it precisely for populist reasons. And I ask you: what is your intention and your plan for young people to get into education? Zero! You don't have one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u700	Aren't these young people? The deputys aren't young people?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u701	Do you hear what I'm saying? Those people who are waiting for what you're saying? To be appointed, to simulate these people, and when that happens, we will see what will happen to the rest. So he wants to pay attention to this type of policy. Because saying 'all to be permanent now', no one believes it. On the contrary, we have a very specific plan. I told you. I have caused all parties to tell us how they think about the appointment system. No party came to tell us how he thinks. And I insist: it is very pleasant to say these kinds of demands in the ears of others. We are, however, saying that it is very practical to report - and I am not saying that - on the substance of the system. On the subject of repression: we first protested about the irresponsible attitude of some police around a month ago at the Ministry of Education. At the same time, we also denounced the behaviour of certain factions such as that of the PAME. So here's what we all want. As for whether violence will bring results, we think it will not. And I say it too clearly, so there's no misunderstanding. This was done publicly, there was no answer because there could be no answer. Because there are pictures and testimonies. Of course, I would ask everyone in these kinds of protests to show a temper to deal with the problems. Because thousands of substitutes don't want this type of protests. Thousands of deputys are waiting for solutions. I understand that the government cannot give solutions today, as most people want. We know it's the priority and the first thing we're talking about. In fact, for the first time, the need for permanent appointments to public education has recently been written into the various texts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u702	Thank you. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. We wish you good Easter, good Resurrection and rest to those who will be able to rest! Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-02-S1-commons.u703	With the consent of the House at 19.25 the sitting on Monday, April 16, 2018 at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
