ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-31-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the 26-07-2018 authorisation of the Department (A' composition) the minutes of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the European Commission of the European Union of the European Union, of the Commission and of the Council of the Commission of the European Union of the European Union of the Republic of Greece have been validated. Malinaki and the General Hospital of Kefalonia and the executors of the Mary (Party) Wearer respectively and other provisions’, and]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Today the timely question to be debated is one because of the operation of the Chambers. The House meets in Chambers and questions to the ministers are limited. But let me first mention the timely questions that will not be discussed. The first, with number 23/25-2018, timely question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy, George Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: "The Government covers the four ministers who received the details of the candidates' files", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the relevant Minister for Administrative Reconstruction Mr.Gerovalis. Cause: workload. The sixth Question No 21/25-2018 by Independent MEP 2 of Athens Mr.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironopoulou to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "The founding of the Academy of Arts", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Lydias Konordos. Cause: He will attend the funeral of Chryssas Spiliotis, the victim of the fire on 23-7-2018 in Matti Attica. The third, with number 19/24-7-2018, topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "About the persecutions suffered by the Scottish authorities, Archbishop Ahridos Ioannis" will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Georgios Katrugalos. Cause: workload. The fourth under number 24-26-7-2018, topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Problems in the functioning of the Centre for Physics and Rehabilitation of Amphisias (KEFIAP)", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis. Cause: Disclosed liabilities. Also, the seventh question by MP I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Toska. Cause: Not discussed. Also, the fifth Question No 17/23-2018, by MP, Mr Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Legislation on fast track procedures for anti-military works in Mandra Attica", will not be discussed We are therefore entering the debate on the only timely question, the second with number 20/24-7-2018 by MP II of the Democratic Association of Athens PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Greek Defence Systems (ESA)". The Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Kouvelis, will answer. Please, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-31-S1-commons.u2	Thank you. Minister, I would like to thank you for being here today and for the cooperative spirit that distinguishes you at the time when you are Minister, at least in relation to parliamentary control. I would like to tell you that my question, which is the fourth one - I have made three things to Mr Vitsa, and I have caused myself as the defence officer of the Change Movement and a debate in the Standing Committee - is, in my opinion, characterised by a mild look. In fact, in the way I oppose the government in defence matters some of them, the President of the U.S.S., may rely on them to say that PASOK had them well and that, for this reason, our opposition is low. I do not know the gentleman and want to inform the Department, Mr President, that I have been responsible for defence policy since the 2015 elections. I had no intention of showing a climate limited - for suspicious reasons - of opposition. On the contrary, I am in the struggling, and indeed in a very strong way. The whole of Greece says that. So people who are concerned about transactions under the table with the Ministry of Defence, I want to tell them not to worry. We have a creative spirit, because we want to offer - to the extent our powers as a party of counterpopulation - the rescue of the Greek Defence Systems. My timely question has four questions and I am simply focusing on them briefly, literally, to mention them. Firstly, Mr Vitsas promised EUR 40 million to the NSA as an update measure - apologies for the term - of Mrs Gennimata's rescue programme. What about that money? Secondly, we have complaints, complaints, that many contracts are irresponsible because of the lack of staff. What about this? Thirdly, four years by SYRIZA Government - ANEL have we signed new conventions concerning NSAs and mobilize their powers? Fourthly, why did the director of the Ministry of Finance resign? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-31-S1-commons.u3	Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-31-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I can assure you that I personally hold the creative role you want to have - and you have it - through the procedure of parliamentary control. Nothing more, nothing less. However, I am keeping the point as much as the point you have made. I have listened very carefully to your questions, but also to your reference to the 2013 restructuring plan. On this occasion, I would like to begin by answering and pointing out that the agreement with the Eurogroup, which you are essentially referring to in your question, can only be described as a rescue plan for the company. More specifically, according to the first predicted a reduction in staff and, in particular, the operation of ASEs with a maximum number of employees, five hundred. In essence, an exit voluntary scheme was introduced after the break-up and formation of the new NCAs so that the employees in this undertaking were reduced. The cost of voluntary exit was estimated at EUR 6.6 million and, of course, charged the state budget. Mr Colleague, you have in mind that the restructuring programme, which you mention and you are defending, provided for the closure of the company's plants and not one, but two factories. A total of four factories are currently in operation, in Hymittos, in Lavrio, in Agios and in Mandra. The past restructuring programme, which you referred to, provided for the gradual reduction of the company by closure of production units, i.e. closure of operations, closure and transfer of the production activities of the Elefsina plant, as well as the closure of the works, closure of the Mandra complex, and a reduction of the staff. Fortunately Mandra continues and still exists today as a productive sector. What we managed to do as a supervising ministry was to close just the Elefsina plant and transfer the size of the plant to the ELPEs, bringing about EUR 25.69 million in the company's funds, that is, on your own welfare of the closure of the plant we have at least made sure that we achieve the best possible benefit for the company. In fact, in order to speed up the process and facilitate the process of selling the Elefsina land, we have made legislative arrangements where, firstly, the company was exempted from issuing an Energy Efficiency Certificate and engineer certificates and, secondly, it received tax administration certificates and ISPA certificates. The result of the arrangements was the successful sale of the Elefsina land and the company received the first instalment of EUR 12,845.000 and the sum of EUR 6,422,000, i.e. the second instalment, which is crucial to the company's liquidity. There is still a recovery amount of EUR 3.5 million as a balance, and it is estimated that the repayment will be completed at the beginning of October this year. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-31-S1-commons.u5	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-31-S1-commons.u6	And I continue, my dear colleague, to mention the situation and the basis on which the plan you mentioned, the restructuring plan of the government at the time, had to be implemented. I am sure you know how much the company's accumulated losses amounted to by December 2014, to EUR 1.37 billion - and I repeat it - EUR 1,378,305 000. Otherwise, the loans were EUR 422,992,823. From 2002 to 2014, the company received loans guaranteeing the Greek State together with loans from the State itself amounting to EUR 1,26 billion in mid-term, about EUR 105 million annually without any restructuring, improvement or even, if you like, new production line and more productive reconstruction. And I'm on my way. On 20-11-2017, the European Commission adopted the decision to recover EUR 55 million. The decision concerns unlawful State aid granted in 2004-2011. What we eventually succeeded - not being able to avoid the application of the decision - was after meeting with KEME and DG COMP to achieve a common assumption from all parties that any State aid recovery would be borne solely by the Greek Civil Product Production Systems - I repeat political products - both subsidiaries mentioned in the political section. So we didn't charge the Hellenic Defence System any more. Now I come to the operational plan: In September 2016, my predecessor, Mr. Vitsa, informed the relevant Parliamentary Committee on the New Operational Plan 2017-2020 of the NSAs, which is now being updated, since it is now seen that the 2013 Restructuring Agreement was not going to help, to contribute to the well-being of the company. This plan was based on the data and sales estimates, signed and expected contracts geared to the gradual increase in production work and to the utilization of the company’s capacities in know-how and production equipment, with internal staff movement, recruitment of temporary workers, as required by the company. The reference you make to the financial support of the company about EUR 40 million came from the need to finance its production processes, and even for the period 2016-2017. In fact, they would amount to the above amount, given the difficulties in lending from the banking sector and the general situation of the Greek banks. Perhaps this is not the first time that it has been heard in this Chamber, because it has been repeated by my predecessor, Mr Vitsa, and I will agree with that. The company's problem is structural. In other words, the tactics of parallel state funding, without a development plan, do not lead to any result. On the contrary. What we are looking for in part, we have achieved for the year 2017-2018 and it is the financing of productive processes to be done by itself. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I referred briefly to the sale of the area of Elefsina and we must move in this direction. There are irresponsible conventions - to come to the other issue, which you have raised - for over fifteen years, dear fellow Members, who have actually been in the commonly called impediments. One of the reasons is that, in addition to the company’s distortive operation, it was concluded in terms which were unfavourable to RAS, since the amount of advances made by the contracting authority was not sufficient, at all, to purchase raw materials. The result was the imposition of huge criminal clauses, since there was not a ceiling for determining their amount, but at the same time there was, unfortunately, a loss of the company's reputation. It is understandable, therefore, that you understand, my dear fellow Member, that we need to proceed with solutions that will boost the production line of the company to overcome the liquidity problem it has. And on that point, I will stop here and come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-31-S1-commons.u7	Please, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-31-S1-commons.u8	Today's debate, Mr President, is an opportunity to come to an agreement. I'm going backwards, too, which I avoided in my prototype, since the Minister had to do it in his own. A few days ago, Mr. President, we met the representatives of workers in the Hellenic Defence Systems at all factories - they were about thirty people - Mrs. Gennamas and I. There was a retrograde to the first proposal, which was in place for the restructuring of the Hellenic Defence Systems and was truly socially analgesic and which Ms. Gennamas did not agree to apply. It established a restructuring programme for the company in agreement with the representatives of most of the factories, which provided, without excessive demand for the number, for a very high number of voluntary removals from the company. They agreed to a minimum, but necessary - the closure of a factory is the truth - in the association of production powers. There was a clearing of commitments and they agreed, Minister, to give the company the air of 75 million plus. They have undertaken to recruit specialists, not permanent staff, to carry out specific tasks under contracts, which were in place and which were due in the coming years for the company to work in order to produce them. And through this - we agree here - through the work and the performance of contracts to bring about the future. That was the plan. I assure you, Mr President - not because I was present, but many times when there were meetings of Mrs Gennamas with Mr Venizelos, I, as Minister of Education, had meetings with the President of PASOK at the time and had discussions with Mrs Gennamas and Mr Venizelos - about how hard her reaction was at that time to do this. I'm an indirect witness, I mean, I've heard. They didn't want it. And with a lot of discussion and the truth is with convincing arguments, the Greek proposal has been accepted. The government's down. He took the twin Kammenos - Quiet with Mr. Quiet, whom he did not like. He didn't like that at all. He didn't want to merge, he didn't want a voluntary exit, he didn't want any of it. It canceled the previous plan, and things began to go backwards, namely to accumulate debts, not to carry out contracts. With Mr Quissy, who was not only 'quiet', he lost a critical time, eight to nine months, that is, six of his and two - three of the next. He brought up - down, not in a good way. He canceled the program, he went it - I repeat - about nine months back. That is, five to six of his own - those who stayed - and the others until the next one takes over and figure out what's going on, as it takes time. Mr. Vitsats has taken time. Debts accumulated, problems began, such as the problem with the personal accounts of members of the new administration. It was unfair, but what should we do? That's the way it is. And all this inconvenience has brought the company back to operational needs of 100m euros now. Now. Exceeding 75 cm3 but not exceeding 100 cm3 I say, Minister, that this is a good thing to talk about, to exchange arguments, and the citizen who is listening to us draws conclusions. The question is what will happen now. I therefore accept, as a starting point for this debate, what we are going to do now. The President of the Change Movement contacted Mr. Chakaloto. That's how we decided. We had decided ourselves to make this communication and I would bring the matter to the House, which I do and thank you for being here. You could not have come as other colleagues do. We are saying now: is there a case of the money that the Treasury can give to something? Are there any forward-looking contracts? Is there any possibility of carrying out existing contracts? And a simple question: What are the Greek Defence Systems doing now? They're producing something? So, can we believe that there is a future and give real courage to the workers, who are now afraid that their end will come in this time of crisis? That is why I think our debate can be productive. I shall close, Mr President, by speaking to you and not to the Minister present. I cannot today in this House, saying, ignore what has happened to dozens of our fellow citizens, who have died, lost their lives, or lost their own people, their property in the destruction, human, ecological, which has happened to the recent fires. The criticism of the government - I will not get more than thirty seconds - is now gathered and attributed to words such as: inadequacies, omissions, mistakes, cynicism in the management of people and their suffering. Problem with the untimely evacuation, a problem with a government meeting at night, which, while there were dead, presumably did not exist. I'm sorry, it hasn't been requested yet. An honest apology of devastated people has not been. However, by addressing you and by the presence of a man of institutions, I would like to say in this Chamber that we have learned for years the teachings of parliamentary and constitutional law. The words 'I have political responsibility' mean the next phrase 'and that is why I resign'. The first part without the second part makes no sense. It is a matter of law, it is a matter of constitutional law, it is a matter of customary law, which concerns parliamentary law in its womb, in the English-language state, it is a constant matter of all parliamentary systems. So since the Prime Minister took it, in full, as he said, he had to resign and he must immediately resign. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-31-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. I believe that all these serious issues will be discussed in this House, perhaps now, perhaps in plenary. I think that there can be no answer from the Bureau today. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-31-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I would not mention this because I have had the opportunity at a previous meeting to express our pain, my pain, for the dead, for those who have given the battle for life, and for the great disaster that has taken place. I just want to point out, Mr President, that all you have said is issues that will be decided, that will be discussed and, in any case, any single reference to the issues that you have raised is left to me. I just have to point out and refer to my disagreement. The political responsibility assumed by the Prime Minister in fact does not lead to resignation. I think - my disagreement is given and exists - that under no circumstances should the words 'I take political responsibility' be accompanied by any resignation. It is a disagreement, if you like, in the functioning of the institutions to which you have referred. However, I come to the point about the issue raised by the auditer of the Ministry of Finance. I have to tell you that the work that this controller does is extremely good. Explains were provided on the company's side, as - I want you to be sure of this - I, too, was personally disturbed by what had arisen with regard to the controller, which - I repeat - was, with integrity and responsibility, doing its job and doing its job. I believe that the explanations given by the company and auditor on both sides were sufficient and I do not want to give any more dimension. In fact, I would like to assure you and to convey to you the will of the company, namely the board of directors, to continue the smooth and complete operation of internal controls, as has been done so far. Regarding the recruitment of temporary staff, to which you referred, in 2014 with the provision of voluntary departure of about two hundred and fifty employees, without criteria, a large number ceased working in the company in important productive sectors and lost important know-how. In this context, the company is considered to include temporary workers' personnel according to production needs and if the requirements are evident and increased. At the same time, in order to directly meet any needs of technical staff, the movement of personnel into the Attica facilities, for example for the Mandra and Lavrio factories, is already being implemented. With regard to the financing of the company to which you referred, the company on July 12, that is, a few days ago, submitted to the Ministry of Finance a request for a financing of EUR 12.3 million by paying cash for an increase in its share capital. It came back with a new request on 27 July, namely three days ago, by redefining the amount to EUR 5.82 million, in order to buy mainly raw materials for the execution - here I mention what is being carried out - of the Minimi Conventions and of cartridges 76/62. That's their code number. There are talks and processes of the Ministry of Finance with the Minister of Finance and we are looking forward to positive results, without currently being able to talk about the exact amount, because I want to be perfectly precise. The General Accounting Office of the State had also been asked to grant a grant to the company with the sum of EUR 15 million to repay PPC liabilities. These are the EUR 800 million granted by the European Support Facility for Greece in order to repay due obligations to third parties. In this context, PPC's debts to PPC amount to EUR 15 million have been investigated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and PPC has been unpaid since 2012. The General Accounting Office recently paid off the company’s dues to PPC. They've been paid off. Furthermore, I would like to assure you that there is no question of employee payroll, as this is in any case guaranteed by the main shareholder of the company, which is the Ministry of Finance. With regard to the activation of old contracts, the adjustment of the increase in advances is being considered in order to buy raw materials and implement a total system of EUR 52 million. Mr Colleague, I will speak to you de profundis on this matter, as I did just before. If this company does not acquire an extrovert, if it does not ensure its presence on the markets, the same case will be recycled. You asked me about contracts. There have been irresponsible contracts for twelve and fifteen years. I'm sorry to see that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-31-S1-commons.u11	Are those old ones in place?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-31-S1-commons.u12	They are in place, but they are tolerable, because there was no money, there was no possibility of buying raw materials, so that it was delayed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-31-S1-commons.u13	Are clients insisting?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-31-S1-commons.u14	Sure. Let me get you an example. The example helps to understand what I am claiming. There was an order for the manufacture of helmets, the helmets our soldiers wear. Well, I'm telling you, that's the story for twelve years. I made a request to the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-31-S1-commons.u15	This is the Greek Army.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-31-S1-commons.u16	I asked the staff to ask: 'Do you need these helmets'? 'We need them'. So this is still the case, despite the fact that the headquarters, the relevant Armed Forces headquarters, could tell us that we do not need it or need it under other conditions. Fortunately, they need them, and they need to be built, so that the rest can be attributed to the original contract. To sum up, there is this operational plan with the increase in the capital we are seeking for the purchase of raw materials and if the raw materials are bought, it is certain that all production lines will work and hope that the necessary extroversion will also be obtained. It's a long conversation. I would tell you that there are possibilities for the NSAs to be present on foreign markets. But this presupposes the firm's courage and ability to behave outwardly and not with the introvert that has existed for years and exists as the great wound and brake of the company. A question has been put on your side. What is the will, what is the intention - and is your question right - regarding the presence of NSAs? Do we want the Hellenic Defence Systems? I have to tell you we want them. We need them. We need them and why people work there, and why our Armed Forces need them, with what I say to you and why it is possible on the basis of a substantial - not formal - resolution. We will attempt, by increasing capital, to have the start of resolution and can go well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-31-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too, Minister. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-31-S1-commons.u18	The meeting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, August 1st, 2018 at 12.00 p.m., on the subject of the Department's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed.
