ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 7 December 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 199/3-12-2018 topical question by MP Lesvos of New Democracy Mr Charalambos Athanasios to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Distance of the Municipality of Lesvos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 194/3-12-2018 topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "Definition of a new Secretary-General for Information and Communication". 3. The 207/4-12-2018 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Giannis Delis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Problems to meet individual needs in firewood of the residents of Mykes in the Regional Unit Xanthi". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 198/3-12-2018 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Transfer of membership from the Medical School of the Democrat University of Thrace to the newly established University of Western Attica". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 205/4-12-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGlou Vassiliou to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "To extend Law 3869/10 to protect the first residence of the indebted households". 3. The Question No 211/4-12-2018 by Mr. Atticas of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Environment and Energy on the "Athens Andreas Region, Nea Makris Attica and the illegal claims of the Church". 4. The question by No 121/1-11-2018 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Mixed Interdisciplinary Committee of Experts". 5. The Question No 74/16-10-2018 by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, entitled "The planning for maritime education". 6. The Question No 53/11-10-2018 by MP Pireaus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: ‘Strengthening the Port House with a view to establishing an EOZ and an EOG mining of hydrocarbons and natural gas’. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 20/3-10-2018 topical question by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Turkish Challenge continues in the Aegean". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 2854/29-10-2018 question by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the transfer of a member's seat from the Medical School of the Democritus University of Thrace to the newly established University of Western Attica. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we begin the debate on topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, I would like to announce the current questions that will not be discussed: The second under number 193/30-11-2018 topical question first of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The co-management of the Aegean is being promoted by the government", will not be discussed. The third, with number 120/1-11-2018, a topical question by MP I Piraeus of the second round of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Skopje Lake becomes Thessaloniki on the basis of the Prespecies Agreement", will not be discussed. The fourth under number 75/16-10-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouziou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Protection of crews from abandonment of inland waterways”, will not be discussed. The fifth, with number 1/1-10-2018, topical question for the Second cycle of the MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Museum of Macedonian Struggle and other institutions, associations and unions of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement", will not be discussed. There is the corresponding letter from the Secretary of Government. We begin with the discussion of the third under No 206/4-12-2018, a topical question from the MP of Heraklion, the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "For the engraving of the 5 euros per athlete imposed by the National Sport Centre of Heraklion (ESAKI)". The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, George Vasiliadis. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Happy birthday to Nikos and Nikki today. Minister, the National Sports Centre of Heraklion since last October, and in your knowledge, has imposed a 5 euro engraving on the use of the swimming pool per athlete for the maintenance and operation of the installation, with the aim, as it says, of upgrading the picture of the swimming pool, rightly causing the indignation of the athletes and, above all, the parents of more than two hundred children. Behind these excuses is the intention, in our view, to strengthen the rewarding operation of a public swimming pool, a practice followed by the administration of the ESDC and the other sports venues it manages, such as the Linto Gymnasium Closed and the Freedom Stage Sports Center, invoking insufficient state funding. In fact, it means double and unfair taxation for the services already paid by citizens to the central state. The management of the ESDC invokes your encouragement for the imposition of the five-year-old. You personally disproved it, saying 'I told the administration that he has the freedom to seek extra resources'. In second time, you said that the EUR 5 should not be charged to the athletes in addition, but it should be removed from the clubs, but at least until now it has not been implemented. So that we don't play with words and we're laughing, in fact, and the EASA and you mean the same thing. Find resources that will ultimately be borne by the athlete. In practice, what is being done, and in fact blackmailingly, is that parents are forced to pay more than EUR 5 every month than they paid for their assistance. Unfortunately, this is the memorial regularity of SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence, of strengthening the operation of public sports spaces, of being considered as sports customers and of making the right to sport an expensive commodity. We ask you, Mr Secretary, what measures will you take, so that immediately, that is to say here and now, to stop the additional ticking of 5 euros per athlete in the swimming pool and the corresponding amount for the rest of the sports spaces managed by the ECAI. Secondly, to increase state funding - a subsidy from the state budget to the level of needs for the immediate maintenance of the swimming pool facilities, the necessary recruitment of permanent staff and the increased regular grant to amateur clubs, so that there are mass sport programmes free of charge for everyone. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u4	National sports facilities - the facilities belonging to the General Sports Secretariat - are, as you well know, financed by the budget of the General Sports Secretariat and their funding is constantly growing - and I will tell you details later - every year. For the so-called 'grass' you have spoken about, see what it means. Harachi means anything they make you pay over what you pay, plus what you're about to pay. That's the one given. The second presumption is that, in fact, we have asked all clubs using all of the sports facilities, and given that, in order to provide their services, they charge the citizens, a sum of these revenues should be returned back to the establishment. The same thing happened in Heraklion. So in Heraklion, we decided - and we correctly decided - that: we put a cap on the highest prices that every club can charge the athlete. We have reduced for the club directly the rental costs of the installation and at the same time the assistance that is the same as in previous years, we have put the clubs and signed contracts with the EASA, which have committed themselves to the level of the aid and the deduction from the €5 contribution. So we have asked for the 5 euros instead of every athlete in the club doing it at EASH, so that we can create a piggyback together, which we can use easily, directly, for the daily needs of the swimming pool and closed gyms. This is not only true in swimming pools, it also applies to closed gyms. There's no extra charge. We've already pointed out that if a parent last year paid less and this year he's paying more, he's going to report it to get the union out of the facility. That's clear. And it does not come to cover a deficit of funding. The numbers, Mr. Synergy, speak for themselves. In 2014, Heraklion's EPC was financed by the state budget with 580,000 euros. In 2018, the final disbursement to Heraklion RAS reaches 800,000 euros, 50% increase in funding within these difficult budgetary conditions. At the same time, we are modernising the facilities. The competition for Lindo's repair is starting now. The process of studying and repairing the Pugritian Stadium has begun in cooperation with the region and the next month will begin the competition for the restoration of the tartan at the stage of Freedom. And at the same time that the House of Greece and its Vice-President stated that the swimming pool, Heraklion's swimming pool, is in excellent condition and is one of the best in the country, and this is done with great trouble by the Management Committee and Maria Kaloudiotis, who is the president there. And for the first time, and in these years, we have managed and operated the swimming pool twelve months a year with the help of the region and Mr Arnautakis. Therefore, Mr Synthraki, in our view, and if there are opposing complaints of conflicting practices by union-agreements, I said first of all, and the administration said, "Give it here to take away those who break this agreement - and it is ultimately a no charge on the parents and no charge on athletes and a ceiling on subscriptions - and come to take measures against the club". But the use of public sports facilities by clubs that charge citizens without putting their share in the maintenance of the stadium and the installation will never again exist in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u5	The rest in dentistry. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u6	Your position, Mr Secretary-General, is a confession that you, in consultation with the Directorate-General for Sports, did indeed, in consultation with the Directorate-General for Sport, go on imposing this five-year-old manoeuvre. And we insist on this as a 'grass'. There is a very specific practice of extortion on the part of parents, and even with a secure at the entrance for the first time, a man, of course, just warns that if you do not pay, you will not have the right to enter the swimming pool. Who says that to? It tells the athletes and the parents, who have paid the clubs from EUR 35 to EUR 45, depending on the club, without any reduction, but no reduction compared to last year. What for? For the use of the pool and sports facilities. So for the use of the pool they pay twice. They pay the club, they pay the five-day to the administration of the EASA. That is necessarily blackmailing calls on them to pay again for the same reason, and they have already paid the unions for the use of the pool. In proof of what I say to you, I show you this card: 'Athens Incoming Document'. He writes: ‘Ministry of Sports. General Secretariat of Sports. Heraklion National Sports Center. Sports Input Sheet’ Behind is the columns per month for payment. The unions, Mr Secretary-General, continue to receive the parents' assistance normally without the reduction in the sum of five euros you say. Only one of the eleven unions absorbs the five-and-a-half. And that's what you know why? Because it has an increased monthly subscription of EUR 40 or 45 - I do not remember - than the others that are EUR 30 or 35. So he has the power to do this union. What are you talking about? So you're gonna fly out ten unions from 11? That's what you're telling me. You gonna throw them out? And someone's gonna say, "Come on, you're doing a five-eyed man like that?" It is obviously the first step in the name of needs for the good of the children, with the promise that in the course they will make things and say. It is a classic method to permanently and legitimise the rewarding provision of social services, which should be provided free of charge by the State, and even without mediation, I would say, of unions, which, on the grounds of the popular family, are coming to cover the absence of the state. That is, the state takes its tail out of the way, because that's what this is all about. Secondly, while the parents of the athletes pay badly for the swimming of their children, they are additionally charged with swimming equipment, the cost of participation in the workshops and championships, the costs of accommodation and transportation on all swimming missions inside and outside Crete, the renewal of individual health cards and much more. To take into account how much five and fifty euros the people pay for the needs of the child, home, for their lives, their daily lives. And after all - if the ESDC administration has open bills with the unions, let them find them among themselves. Find them between you two. The problem cannot be moved on the backs of parents and athletes. In other words, parents cannot become the fathers of the ESDC administration or become the swimming pool donors, because the Ministry does not finance the necessary resources, as it has to do. With the decision on the five-year-old ESDC administration and with your silent consent, he is trying - be careful - to open forwards with the unions, having as a parent and child shield. It is the worst, unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Symphony, pick it up a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u8	You therefore try to make them accomplices, put a deep hand in the pocket and accept this anti-popular, anti-sport policy of the government. So I repeat the questions I have put to you. You are asked, not by me, by the JRC etc., by the parents, by the families of a thousand and two hundred children and by the athletes in all sports centers. What are you going to do to cancel - that's what you're asking, and you didn't answer - the raspberry that's been imposed, to refund the money to the parents? Return them! And of course, what you said about the budget, know that the 800 grand that you say is dropping in the ocean! And don't make comparisons with the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u9	Come on, Mr. Synatiakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u10	I'll be done. You know that 3/4 of the ESDP budget per year, water, chemicals, electricity, oil, cleanliness, and not only, they are begged by the region, by the municipality and said. It is therefore a disgrace to the city of Heraklion, a fourth in Greece, to have such a swimming pool under these conditions, while a second swimming pool is needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Symphony, please. I'm gonna have to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u12	Okay, Mr. President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u13	You've reached six minutes. For God's sake! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House forty-one students and students and two educational attendants from the 17th Kallithea Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Congressman Nikolaos Symmalene is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u14	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Happy birthday to Mr. Armalene. Happy birthday to all Nikos and Wins of the House. I also have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: "Thematic Tourism - Special forms of tourism - Arrangements for the modernisation of the institutional framework in the field of tourism and tourism education - Support for tourism entrepreneurship and other provisions". Mr Vassilidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Synonymous, again because again, it's like we're laughing at each other. We said that this five-year-old is essentially embedded in the aid, that there is no extra burden compared to last year. There are barely any reductions in sports, because we have set a ceiling for the unions, which the unions have accepted. If there is a complaint that unions are charging further to these five euros, that is, they have not absorbed this reduction, then we are open and I told you at the next moment that the contract of any union will be terminated. Are you questioning that unions should be involved? We have different evidence. I tell you again - and this is clear - that this is why contracts are renewed every two months with unions. In January, all this will be renewed and reviewed if there is such a burden on the parent. The substance is a change in the way of payment. The parent would still pay, but he won't give the union and the union to the EAKH. Parent gives it directly to the facility. I am telling you again - and I was clear and the administration of ESDC is clear about this - that if parents have complaints that the burden is additional and there are differences over last year, then we will move immediately. From that point on, we obviously want to control who comes in and who comes out. It is not only about whether anyone is okay with his contributions, but also about knowing that he has carried the health certificates - someone who is not inspected, who is not registered or who wants to enter the swimming pool - but at the same time about the coaches being checked that they have the minimum prerequisites, that they are declared to be school graduates. By raising the question of coaches, because there has been a lot of discussion over the last few days about the draft law that we have brought to the consultation, we have tried with this draft law to put on the topics of coaches that we have taken initiatives and we have imposed by law, by regulation, by the way in which the administrations operate that there is no man and union that will use public sports facilities and will not have a legally registered coach who is legally engaged in the profession. We wanted to set it up. We brought a proposal for consultation. That is the point of consultation, of discussion, etc. Everyone interpreted the way he wanted, without reading the law, the plan in question. In the orchestra of voices, there were also the voices of coolness, which we also accepted in the discussions with the prefectures, with the dean and with the school presidents. I would like to state publicly from this step and from you, Mr Synthyriakis, - it may not be directly related to the issue of EASA, but it has to do with how we use and operate clubs and swimming pools - that we accept the proposals of the Quaestors, on the subject of the professional rights of coaches and the different ratings that may have to exist, which have some differentiations from what we proposed in the draft law, some not very large, setting as the basis of the excellent decision - a resolution of the EFFA Serres and putting this at the table too. A solution needs to be found for professional rights, so that these children can really be guaranteed, because at the moment it's all in the air. No one dared to open this debate. We are opening it, ensuring both our universities and our graduates and the whole education structure in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Spirtz has just arrived in the Chamber and we are moving on to the next two topical questions. The first question under number 197/3-12-2018 will be discussed in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Kilkis Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The mockery with the secretaries' announcements continues." Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, I have had to ask this question, although I have so far been addressing the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction on all the issues of the administrative and sectoral secretaries that have arisen, but I have not received any reply on many of the issues I have raised. But in your ministry some actions have been taken, some of your choices, which I think should be explained before Parliament. The notices on the positions of the three administrative and sectoral secretaries of your Ministries were of the twenty-two for which we know very well that from the total of sixty in agreement with the institutions, with the compliance committee, as you want to say, it was decided to amend and change, as the way in which the notices were formulated was formulated, is a way that did not give the possibility in a uniform manner and with identical characteristics, to place it in a position to submit each one's candidacy which had the necessary qualifications for this post. These three positions are therefore within the twenty-two which were agreed to be reopened. The questions raised are as follows: Question One: The previous three notices of your Ministry as far as we can tell, the two of them were almost complete, and the interview procedure was completed. This means that the Ministry must come in some way and cancel, if it has to cancel, those three previous notices that had been wrongly made. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At the moment there is a legal loose end - I conclude, Mr President, in half a minute - but it also has a moral and institutional impact and a substantial impact. We cannot give a notice, which, for your own reasons and on your own decision, you must justify, cancel, be left to her fate without mentioning in any way what will happen with her and start with the same thing a new one. All those who participated in the first proclamation, and indeed which has been completed, must they not receive an answer from you, for why? Should the AACC not be guaranteed to launch its new notice and completion process after the previous one has not been completed? A second element that arises from the comparison of notices is that, rather than having a greater degree of openness in the possibility of participation as many candidates as possible, so that they can finally choose the best one, we have a limited number of elements that must characterise these positions, which leads to conclusions on photographic forecasts. I am here to hear the answers to these two serious questions, which are also symbolic of the way the Government operates in the Ministries with the views of administrative and sectoral secretaries.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u18	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Georgioda, I would like us to remember the recent past, although it is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. As you know, the Government has carried out a series of reform initiatives for the substantial transformation of the public administration, so that it can make a decisive contribution to the productive reconstruction of the country, to the role that the public sector must play for the benefit of citizens and society. In this context, therefore, we are attempting to decouple the public administration that you have done. In this context, L.4369/2016 provided for the creation of a new institution of the administrative, deputies, sectoral and sectoral secretaries through the AACC. If I remember you, that is, your party - it does not want me to say some serious expression - you went to the whole planet to denounce this process. We understand that because you do not want to dismantle the public sector, and we understand that very well. You went to the institutions as you used to be under the table, to denounce the ASP procedure, i.e. the Independent Authority that is also a true Independent Authority and is not like the others you set up, is normally constitutionally regulated. You went to the European People's Party, you put your well-known friendly press - not to say anything even heavier - to say about the procedure of the Secretary-General and, at the end, after the noise you caused, there was a consultation with the Monitoring Committee by the relevant Ministry in order to be similar to the characteristics and specifications that had to come out, the notices of the Secretary-General. You have done so, in the friendly way that you have been disgusting the country all these years on your own obvious goal, firstly, not to get out of the memorials, because it was a key element of the third evaluation to complete and, secondly, not to dismantle the state. You had the expectation two years ago that every two months we would go to elections. You thought you'd get out of government. What's gonna happen? It's all life's got. You're not going out of government. In this effort you have managed to reopen in twenty two general secretariats. Well, let's see. The old one, for denounced to us about the old one, provided for a degree in engineering. Does the Secretary-General need a degree in engineering? It is now foreseen. It is now planned to have five years' experience in a public or private position and to be both in a distinct position. Where do you see the picture? What should be the Secretary-General for Infrastructure and Transport if he does not have these features to be similar? The inconsistency of the complaints seems to have been seen from the fact that when these features were more relaxed, in the first notice, that is, you went out and denounced them. You caused it. You're asking for the change now. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. I'm really wondering if the Minister has understood what he just said before. He said that we, as a New Democracy, managed to convince the institutions to pressure the government so that twenty-two of the sixty-nine invitations to emerge as photographics and to force the government to take them back. Firstly, good for the New Democracy for its counterpopulation if it succeeded. Secondly and more importantly, the government defends these notices and understands nothing from any institution and from any troika. At least that's how you pass and you say or we caught you with the sprout on your back and you changed the twenty - two notices. There's nothing else. Or was the first notices right and you had to defend them and deny the suggestions made to you or they caught you and you turned them back one of the two. I think, however, that the way you have expressed yourself also shows the way that this government is finally working. He tries to get through everything he can, he tries, and when he sees that this cannot be done in any other way, because it is clearly illegal, then he stops it. Such notices should not be made by the Secretary-General of the Ministries. The same Secretary-General of the Ministries makes notices for themselves or their colleagues. It had to be done by a single authority with uniform characteristics. Then it would be less likely that someone would blame you for anything. We now have the terrible phenomenon, however, that every Secretary-General of the Ministry should make a proclamation for the next four years by either taking a picture of himself or a colleague of his, because they are also made from one Ministry to another. But I, Minister, will ask you something else. I see three announcements from the Panhellenic Federation of Workers' Associations of Employees, who report things unheard of and your choices in relation to the Directorates-General and the Directors. I'm listening to appeals in the administrative court. The Ministry is not a chip of any minister and no government. There are rules which must be complied with in these options, even those that you have adopted. But here I see that the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction itself, with a document that I will table in the Minutes, to the questions that have been asked, says that the procedure you have chosen is not essentially legal, because you did not get signatures, you did not get approval from the Ministry, there was no approval of the job profiles as it should have been. It's called the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction with its Director-General. I have one last question to ask...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u22	To testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u23	Of course I'm filing it now. Date of birth: 19 September 2018. It's an answer to the entire Greek federation, and I'm filing it now. Because, at least, you don't get to answer, I want to challenge you to something today and, of course, it's your choice, whether you answer or not. Are you one of the four ministers who requested and received from the AACC the copies of the files on the positions of administrative and sectoral secretaries? I'm asking and, if you want, you can say yes or no. Because there is an official AACC document that four ministers requested and received copies of the details of the files from it before the procedure ended without any legal right. If you wish, answer me on this question. If you did the right thing to justify it. If not, you will be evaluated by the Greek people. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Georgiod, you're confused. If a citizen was watching you now in the gallery, he would not understand what you are asking. Do you denounce the first notice or the second one? The topical question you've asked is for the second one. You want to talk about the first one? Which is one of the two to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u26	All together.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u27	Are you denounced both? Why do you not say, Mr Georgioda, that you do not want there to be general secretaries selected from this procedure? Why don't you say that? Why are you hiding, as you have done four years in special relationships under the table with the institutions, to give the country? Is that the first time you've done this? And you say good in New Democracy? Bravo you did what? Where did you go with a number of themes and say "Not so differently" to the institutions, giving the country a chance not to close the ratings whenever we had an evaluation on each subject? You asked a question and tabled a document. I say this to see the size of populism that distinguishes you. Obviously, when a serious job is done and not a job, such as the one you have done in order to help your own children, the evidence must be clearly specified in every position of the Ministry, and the characteristics that the person who claims to be in this position must have, of course, the experience, scientific expertise and of course the contour. They're normal. The complaint, do you know where it lies? In that we didn't put theologian in the registries, as you had in the contour. It is up to specific qualifications and charges to take responsibility. I really would like you to come for a walk from the Ministry. You will see experts and Secretary-General of the New Democracy, being judged Directors-General. Don't you know that, Mr. Georganta? Didn't any Secretary-General or Special Secretary of the New Republic inform you that general managers and directors were selected and placed? Here's the size of the specula and the populism you continue to have. You are on this side of the populist part of Europe. They're phenomena of time, what do we do? I shall reply to the other questions you raised. Is there a legal issue on the AAP? All - and the first notice and the particular experience in the first notice and the experience and similar procedures in the second notice - are approved by the AACC. The position profiles, the presidential decrees that came out for the Ministry's organization, the special skills and specifications set out, are approved by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u28	Don't lie. The ADP does not approve.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u29	You don't know what's going on with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u30	I don't know? You don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u31	If I remember well, as far as I am concerned, because it is an Independent Authority, the people who entered there have also voted for them. It requires a broad majority of Parliament's Committee on Institutions and Transparency. It's understandable that your premiere doesn't enter general managers in a remarkable way. It is even more understandable that the precursor you have does not enter general secretaries with such procedures, so that you continue through the state mechanism to do what you have done four years of sabotage in the government. Apparently, it's not about legality. Did you come back to a alleged complaint again that we got evidence of the files, that we got the files?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u32	Copy from folders.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u33	You're reading the wrong guy. Do this again...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u34	I have an AAPD document in my hands.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u35	Don't have a conversation. Time's covered. With a yes or no answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u36	You're doing this again. After giving false complaints and charges to your friendly press, then you read them and are convinced of them, like the complaint you gave from the workers. Did you testify to her? Bring her in.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u37	He's been filed, Minister. I already signed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u38	Bring us in, let's see the size of the populism of Mr. Georganta and his resignation. Get her to read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u39	We won't wait. You've already completed. To the next meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u40	He's getting into syndicated disputes for denouncing the government. That is to say, if in a position they had to be political engineers or chemical engineers, whether they should be engineers, TE engineers or DE engineers. That's what it says.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u41	Good. Close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u42	I close, saying: Mr Georganta, whether you like it or not, the Greek public as the whole of the country has changed page. It won't pass you. If you have any problem either with the first or with the second call for the Secretary-General, go to the relevant bodies - the AACC is or the Council of State - to cancel these notices. Go on to what you know, go back to the institutions and the People's Party in Europe. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u43	Don't make the detectives now, Minister. We're closed. We move on to the debate on the second question by No 169/20-11-2018 of the second question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Kegeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Assessment of impacts from the construction and operation of the airport in Kastelli - Necessity works and rewarding benefits for the region". Mr. Kegeroglu, here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. The new international airport of Kastelios Crete, as we decided, as it was planned, comes to serve the great needs and tourism as well as the communication of Crete with Greece and the outside world and, of course, makes this one of the most important projects in our country. For some time now, we have been discussing the start of his work and the conditions for this to work in an intact manner, to be efficient and, of course, to have the social consensus and consensus more widely in the region. Four are the key factors to achieve this. The first is to address the impact during construction and from its operation, which concerns everything that we have discussed and included instruments and comments on environmental impact assessment. The second factor is the necessary work in its operation, which must have been completed and, of course, the projects to be prioritised. The third factor is the return benefits, the general benefit for the region that will to some extent remove the negative effects of its operation. Finally, the fair compensation to be paid to the inhabitants, to the owners who will be significantly staying - and that is all I shall refer to in my first speech - without any property. It's a purely rural area, and there are owners who lose even 100% of their property, others 80%, 70%. To a significant extent, the region will have to change, people will have to change their profession, all this social and economic change that exists today. On the basis of your statements that the compensation provided for is not fair - a clear position at the opening of the room at the NIKOS KAZANTZAKIS airport - and, of course, on the basis of the decisions adopted, this unfortunately becomes a reality, which leads to the people's reaction - is organised, documented - and compare compensation prices with adjacent areas, which the services do not do. I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. Unfortunately, in my multiple parliamentary interventions once the competent authority has accepted me to reply and the answer, unfortunately, is a gray one. It is a gray one, because it compares me with a borrower in a next-board project, namely a place that is not supposedly suitable for farming for the Apostelemi project, with a purely rural area, but only for the overheads, how much the olive is, how much the mole is compensated for - which did not exist in the previous case - or other superstitions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u45	Next in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u46	He doesn't compare the earth's value. Well, let me tell you the clue. For Apostelemi's work the compensation for the land is from 4,000 euros the acre to 16,000 euros the acre, while for the case of Kastelion airport the compensation is from 1,560 euros the acre of about 4,000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Kegeroglu, I can't leave you any more. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u48	Unfortunately, this comparison makes the need for regulation in this respect imperative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u49	Good. The question is clear. Mr Minister, here you have the floor on the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u50	First of all, Mr Colleague, I am pleased that you recognize the importance of the project for the new international airport in Kastelli, a very important development project. I would like to say for you that it was so haste and care in the past few years, when the project was announced many decades ago, where the then political leadership of the Ministry in the relevant map that it had released, had put the sign of the project in Anogia and not in Kastelli, which was to become the airport. The project has been declared too many times and the contest has been cancelled or postponed. I believe that the fact that we have promoted this work is very important to Crete and the country, despite the reactions that existed to prevent it from being proclaimed. I am not talking about people who, for ideological or political reasons in Crete, reacted. I am talking about the specific interests that they wanted, and about this project, and about the 'THEIOS', that the competition should not take place. So what did we do? Because you spoke about the necessity of the accompanying projects to be carried out in Kastelli and the wider area, we proceeded to very important interventions and changes and anticipated an increase in the percentage of the Greek public at the airport in Kastelli. The competitive process gave us 46%. So the public has an important asset, so that the rest of the country's airports can live from that revenue. The road links were included in the non-existent project, the importance of the economic offer of the tenderer was increased. The State's financial contribution was limited to 180 million, an increase of 2% on the airport's gross revenues resulting from the operation of the concession project. It was 0.5% when the competition had come out and it was canceled. This money will be made available to 1% to the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas and 1% to the neighbouring municipalities, in the Regional Unit of Heraklion, at the beginning in order to make projects that the region needs. Employment is being drastically stimulated, and there will be care to give priority to employment for the unemployed in the region. The choice of independent engineer has been radically modified. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The independent engineer didn't come with the offerr. There's been a special competition. The airport building will respect cultural...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u51	Minister, I'm sorry to intervene, but the question was not to make the record.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u52	No, I don't take stock.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u53	But that's what you've been doing for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u54	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u55	I have to intervene because time has been filled and the main question was whether expropriation prices will be improved or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u56	No, that was the second question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u57	On this. I'm sorry, but we need to know what parliamentary control means.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u58	The first was the projects that need to be done...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u59	Good. Please, in a minute, complete your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u60	If you want, I'm telling my denture and I'll include the plays. Mr Kegeroglu, I'm sorry I'm going to have in my prototype the works that need to be done and in my denture what we're going to do about compensation. The building of the airport will be bioclimatic specifications and will respect the architectural heritage of the landscape, because a special architectural committee has been provided for. Ten acres of conference space are created in the area of commercial use, which will only be for the promotion of local products and Cretan companies. There will be an installation of biological cleansing within the limits of the airport, which will receive the sewage and the adjacent settlements. In cooperation with the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas we finance the preparation of a study on the spatial planning of the wider area, in order that no one goes to the airport and meets a spatial chaos as usual, but that everything is regulated and that there is a specific spatial plan. The study on the development plan of the wider region is being carried out in order to have a local development plan with the necessary projects, infrastructure, along with the municipality and the region. The rest I'll tell you on my second. Well, you're right about expropriations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u61	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, I am saying exactly - because I have already made a small mistake - that by means of a 2017 decision, compensation in the next few years is from EUR 4,000 per acre to EUR 15,000 per acre, while for the area where the Kastelian airport is created it is from EUR 1,500 per acre to EUR 2,600 per acre. I was wrong earlier to talk about 4,000 euros. Let us begin by talking about the necessary preparatory work. The FAO was not declared or a special spatial planning or as you would like to call it, in order to address the unregulated construction and developments in the area. You have a problem, of course, with accepting it. I think you should respect the work done before and receive it. Of course, I too recognise and recognize the improvements you are making. But I cannot fail to point out the backwards and the mistakes. This thing can't be done. So you are mistaken not to have published the FAO or a special spatial planning for the area. The issue of expropriations has not been answered, so we're waiting. We have other effects that are recorded in the environmental study in relation to the natural environment, water and management of the whole problem, to which answers and solutions need to be given now. It is the wider road network that will connect the north to the south of Crete and to the existing road system, namely the BOAK, as well as the large urban centres with Heraklion. There's the need to connect Messara to Ierapetra. All this doesn't seem to be moving forward. Only the Hersonissos-Kasteli road is included in the study in the concession agreement. So, let me say here that there are issues that need to be dealt with now, because the local society that was in favour of building the airport, to the great majority of it, has started and turned against it. That makes me very sad, because I am in favour of the creation of the project, but I cannot do all the struggle that it takes to make these people vindicate themselves. From the moment that you recognize it, I make a specific proposal to you, Mr Minister, on compensation and the others, we will be able to discuss it in another question, because as you have done, I cannot refer to it. So we have the issue of compensation for people who lose up to 100% of their assets, as I have said, and they must change their profession. It can't be done with a mere compensation. There is a precedent for other projects. On the basis of a progressive scale of 5% to 50%, it is on this progressive scale that, in addition, people who lose their fortunes by up to 100%. For example, whoever loses 100% of their assets, has a 50% increase in the compensation and who loses it by 50% has a 25% increase and proportional to these rates. It is a specific proposal, which has been applied by the Greek state to other projects. It is a project that changes the data not only for the fields that are expropriated and the plots but also for the wider area. Do not tell me that outside the wire that is not expropriated, it is absolutely appropriate for the space to produce olive oil or bostana. You can't tell me that. That is why I am telling you that we have issues that need to be dealt with. I conclude with a symbolic proposal, Mr President, concerning the airport. We agreed that it would be "New International Airport of Kastelli Crete". Here, in my reply, they are writing to me again "New International Heraklion Airport". That's what's gonna be called? In any case, the airport is different from the "Nikos KAZANTZAKIS" and I propose that its title be fully correct and compatible with the location that is being made, i.e. it is a new International Airport in Kastelli, Heraklion Crete, called "ANITIS TRYFITSOS". He is the leader of the national liberation struggle in Eastern Crete, and the region should indeed be honoured symbolically and essentially with the fair compensation that I have told you earlier, but of course also with the rewards that we will discuss during the debate on the convention here in Parliament. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u63	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u64	Mr Kegeroglu, first of all I would like to thank you for answering yourself, but it is not the Ministry of Infrastructure responsible for everything. In other words, for a project that came out 15 years ago, you're telling us it didn't happen. Okay, I don't close the job done in the past few years. But what happened in the 15 years to make the airport?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u65	Now have a GLOBAL.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u66	You are right about that, and that is why we are funding - and I said it beforehand - the Municipality of Minoa Pedias in order to come out. We are in close cooperation with the local authorities, in other words with the region and with the municipality, if the technical services cannot proceed with this notice, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Spatial Planning. You have also said - and it is absolutely right - that the axis that has been planned and is on the same project and unites the BOAK and NOAK, is also the road project of connecting the airport...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u67	Until Kastelli is predicted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u68	Until Kastelli yes. I am talking about the road that unites them, because in Crete we are still suffering from airports that have not been made and have no way of approaching them because of what has happened in the past. I'm talking about the airport in Lassithi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u69	Are the roads going to be first and then the airports?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u70	It's not your fault. Another government did this, yours didn't do it. In relation to the rest you have said, the government's political leadership without hiding is next to the residents to receive the compensation they have to receive. Obviously, the assessors and the expropriations procedure are very specific and are defined by judicial decision. So the Ministry's political leadership cannot intervene in justice to set a higher or lower price.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u71	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u72	That's all I'm saying. It is not so because whatever decision the agency has taken - you know it from your experience very well - judicial decisions can overturn it multiplely across Greece. It is an issue that both Parliament and the relevant ministries are not the infrastructure. So what I want to commit to is that it will be taken care of. We have already contacted both the region and other bodies to find, firstly, a public area in the area so that they do not lose the productive tool that people - those who want - that have expropriated their fields, their olive trees and, secondly, to see together with the Ministry of Economy that has responsibility, another assessment process when you expropriate something that is the productive tool of the farmer or any other. I believe that this is the solution and we will move on immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u73	Are we going to say something about the baptisms?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u74	We'll talk. Thanks for reminding me. Mr. Kegeroglu, this is not the time to get the name of the airport. It'll take as long as it has to. It'll be us again. And as you remember very well from the name and tunnels in Corinth - Patras, we honor proposals from historical leaders and the National Resistance and the progressive space. It is therefore a proposal that will consider what you are doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u75	Good. We move on to the debate of the first under number 196/3-12-2018 topical question of the second question of the MP Argolidas of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Andrianos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "First of all the consequences to the producers of Argolida from the state's oligopoly in the implementation of the turbulence programmes". Mr. Adriane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know very well from a series of questions that I have tabled, with which I have stressed the frugality of the state in the implementation of the turbulence programmes, both in Argolida and in other oil-producing regions of the country, this oligopoly and these procedures which have obviously not been carried out this year have had serious consequences for olive oil production and prices. I would point out that there are areas where more than 60% of the olive fruit has been lost in Argolida. And, of course, the impact on the quality of olive oil, due to the damage caused by the torch and the globe - as you know, because of the area where you are elected - was really serious, so there are reduced prices. As the producers say, revenues are not worth collecting the olive fruit either. The revenues are so low that they don't pick up their olives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] The sprays had to start from the first days of June, as indicated by the responsible and geoponents. This was not done, for various reasons, and of course, on the sole responsibility of the state, whether it is the region or the ministries. This does not, however, concern the producer. The fact is that the producers are not responsible for this situation. Moreover, the money, as the DAGs say, was little to make the extra sprays they needed, due to the climate conditions that prevailed this year, which favoured the growth of the wood. So there was no flexibility for two, four of the sprays needed in these circumstances. So it was less money and it wasn't enough for the sprays. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In view of the fact that producers, who, in the vast majority of the day-to-day survival battle, have to pay for the homicide themselves every year, which the responsible state bodies have undertaken, it is imperative, on the one hand, to compensate those affected for the damage they have suffered, without being least responsible for them, but, on the other hand, to ensure that we do not see such oligopoly again in the future. I would therefore ask you to answer these two questions and to inform us of the government's intentions to plan the government and to amend the list of damage covered by the ELGA, but basically, of the ways in which the affected producers are compensated, because the situation is hopeless. We had a chance to visit you at the Ministry. You've seen what's going on with clementine.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u77	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u78	I shall conclude, Mr President. It's a very serious matter. Clementine producers in Argolida are not able to obtain revenues this year because it was destroyed by the Monastery. It is also a result of climate change. All this, together with the "Frankista", which closed an export factory, an export packet, which owes enough money to seven hundred producers and four hundred workers no longer work, is very serious in Argolida. Of course, in the livestock sector too, and I shall end, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u79	But finish it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u80	...there's the problem of balancing. And I want an answer to that, Minister, because, unfortunately, all the regions of Argolida have been excluded from the balancing system, and there is a problem, particularly in the areas of Ermionida, where there will be great impact on farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u81	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, Mr President, this year was a difficult year for olive oil production in our country, both in terms of quantity and quality, which had a direct effect on the price of the product, so the producer's overall income produced and available. However, as with any problem, this is never monofactory, it is multifactorial. There are many conditions which help to raise a problem. In the short time I have, I'll start telling you instantly: The first is that the olive, as we know, is paranoid, that is, one year has production, the other does not have it. So 2017 was an excellent year, both in terms of quantity and quality. The first prices, which were particularly high and corresponded to the quality of olive oil, show this. The following year, therefore, in 2018, it was expected by de facto that production would be smaller. So, for the torch, for this insult, there would be less food and the insult would be great. It was expected. Secondly, weather conditions: The torch, as you well know, is an insect whose biology depends on climatic conditions. In 2017, which was unfavourable, we had no tampering. In 2018, which was favourable, it had special multiplications, many generations. And it wasn't just the torch. It was also the nucleator, it was also the gurgishite, it was a series of other insects, such as the paretaria, which, in the openings they made on the fruit of the olive, developed germsporium, dredging and a series of other fungal diseases. So we're talking about a living organism that depends directly on weather. The third - as you have rightly pointed out - is the following: the problem for this year's olive year was not only the olive tree. We also had a problem with clementine, we had a problem with tobacco, we had a problem with peaches and a number of other crops in our country. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The fourth - and here I want to stand - is that the same procedures followed in 2018, by the same people, by the same agencies, were followed both in 2017 and in 2015 and in 2013, where we had a success in the homicide programme. We have to ask ourselves: Why were they good people in 2017 and did their work well? And I would ask that this anthropophagia be stopped - and I am obviously not addressing you, I say it on the occasion of your question - because this anthropophagia, this exchange of classes, this attempt to transfer responsibility - who is most to blame, who is to blame, who is less to blame, who is to blame from outside - is not to treat things properly. In order to be effective, we need to stay at the causes, find them, locate them and improve how to deal with them. Another part we need to see is climate change with mild winters. Last year - that is, winter 2017 to 2018 - we had little temperatures. The minimum temperatures did not fall down, in most olive groves, from 2 degrees Celsius. What does that mean? That the bug took over, stayed alive all year. That's the one element. The second element is that with the mild winters, with the morning of the fruiting we had a hardening of the nucleus much earlier than we had in the literature than we know. And this is a phenomenon which has been repeated over recent years and we must take it seriously in the face of the years to come. So we have new data in science in recent years, in the last year, in the last decade, which we have to take into account, if we want to be effective in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u83	Close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u84	Yeah, I'll go. And, of course, I will not deny that there is a problem with bureaucracy, with the programme that is being handled by the coroner. However, this appeared strongly in a year with its previous features. So with regard to the alertness of the stakeholders, I mention characteristic dates: on 12-2-2018 the responsible Directorate of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs begins the process. The circle of signatures, which defined the staff, was completed on 7-6-2018. And on 15 June we have the decision of the Minister for Rural Development, where the staff were allocated as soon as the process was completed. As you have said, the responsibility for implementing the programme lies with the Committee of the Regions' Directorates for Rural Development and Economy, which are waiting for the individual procedures to be completed, so that the programme can be started. As far as the money is concerned, I will inform you that the total amount of appropriations was EUR 20.100,000. Of these, 19,000 euros were consumed and Argolida took 412,000 euros. So there was no question of money. As also, there was no question...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u85	Minister, in your dentistry, the rest. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u86	To conclude only this sentence, Mr President. As there was no material disposal problem. And that's what all the DAGs recognize in Greece. So, elsewhere it was the problem. The rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting from the top Western theories is being attended by twenty-five students and students and four of their educational attendants from the 11th Municipal School of Corfu. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Adriane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I really did not get any answers to the basic question I raised, how will they be compensated - and I expect your secondaryity - for these people, those producers, who are currently unable to grow, cannot afford to pay the costs of the new growing season. Argolida is a third bad year for olive oil. If you remember, in the last two, three years, I have asked timely questions and questions about incarnation. You also said that the homicide was successful in 2017, 2015, etc. That's not what anyone's questioning. But the circumstances were different. What I would point out to you here is - and as a geopole, I think you are well aware, but also as a spokesman in Laconia - that the conditions were different this year, as you said. Therefore, there should be flexibility. As far as the money you said about Argolida is concerned, I was told that it was not enough. It's for 2.3 sprays when they needed four sprays this year. We cannot, in other words, have the same sprays in a good year, which is not favoured by the torch and in a bad year, where climate conditions favour the torch, be treated the same way. Something's wrong and you have to deal with it. Also, what farmers are expecting today is how they survive. They suffered oil damage with the fall of over 60%. Prices lost this year. Clementine, as we have said - and you know that very well, we had the meeting - was destroyed and they no longer have any revenue. In livestock, with low milk prices - and you need to see it - we need feta demand, on the other hand, the producer's prices are crumbling. And we have Ermionida excluded from the new balancing map. I want you to see this, especially for Ermionida. There are mountainous areas where people are only involved in livestock farming - and in Epidaurus - which were disadvantaged and are now not. We're talking about disaster. I hope you will see it, and if there is room - and there must be room - for correcting it. As in all this bad situation for the primary sector in Argolida, I must add the sad fact that we had, to stop the operation of the franchisor plant, and thus owe the oranges last year to more than seven hundred producers, the unemployed workers there are four hundred, etc. So it's a really hopeless situation. What I want to hear from you is firstly how the oil producers, who have really lost their production this year, will be compensated. One way, as we have said, is the de minimis programme for clementine. And secondly, look at the issue of farmers in these areas. And, of course, I would like to point out the issue of the 'Frankista'. It is not your issue, but it is about production, about the primary sector, and that is also a matter in which you must exhaust everything you have.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u89	You were clear, Mr. Andriane.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u91	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, precisely because last year it seemed to be a problem with the torch, so on 18-7-2018 with Article 57 of Law 4554 it was possible for temporary to launch the project in order to speed up this process. However, even this, he was unable to have the results he could have. In other words, even legislative interventions were made on the project. The fact is that the ELGA acknowledges that there is a great deal of damage. And we have his appreciations. However, they are not in the Rules of Procedure, as you mentioned in your prototype, because they are not phytopathological insults within the ELGA Regulation. So the process has started after too many years. The legal framework of the ELGA Regulation, as you know, is in the 1980s. Now, then, a proportionate study has been commissioned so that we modernise the Rules of Procedure, see what you cover at compulsory or optional level, so that they meet the new needs of the times. With regard to the replacement of a percentage of producers' income, which is indeed the point and is the subject of your question: We are depleting and examining all the tools at our disposal. Already in September of this year, a few months ago, a request was made to the European Commission to assist the country with uncovered losses due to weather conditions. This supports the country's demand. I have tabled the relevant document in the Minutes, to a previous question. Our country is asking for aid for non-covered losses. And we substantiate our request as a country, having submitted a time series of climatic data, meteorological data, showing that we have untimely rainfall, we have high temperatures, in periods that should not be high or low, in periods that should not be low. This whole grid created all these problems in the country plus the torch on the olive.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u93	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u94	I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u95	Good. I see a consensual climate. Let's close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u96	Wait a minute, Mr President, let me continue with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u97	I'm not stopping you. You still have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u98	Thank you. For the 2019 tacosy program, which the world also expects answers, the official launch of the pilot project was carried out. We said that the data are changing, so we need to look for new solutions in an old-fashioned tactic program called "pilot application of new technologies to monitor and control forest populations in various olive-growing regions of the country". This was done in Chania on 29-11-2018. This pilot has joined a series of areas. It will be two years long and new solutions will be sought in order to modernise the task of tacosy. Already from 18-10-2018, a recommendation was made to the relevant Directorate-General of the Ministry of Finance, so that we can have the supply of tomato material for 2019. From October 26th, too, a recommendation was made to the Directorate-General for Administrative Services for the needs of seasonal personnel required for the homicide. From 21-11-2018, a few days ago, the official start of the crime program for 2019 took place. It's already begun. Finally, because we know and understand the intrinsic problems of the cohesiveness of many ministries, as the programme has been implementing for decades, we are moving forward and are currently in contact with the Ministry of Interior, so that we can coordinate our actions, give some competence to the Ministry of Rural Development, so that we can coordinate these bureaucratic processes more quickly. As far as the regions of the less-favoured are concerned now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Secretary, pick it up a little, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u100	I was asked by my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u101	Yeah, he asked you, but I can't, because they're asking you to give me three times the time. The Rules of Procedure are clear. The answers must be prepared within time. You have one more minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u102	Just a minute, that's enough for me. Thank you. The areas that are not part of the new map - while some new ones are included - are either part of or are not part of it, on the basis of the criteria laid down in Regulation 1305/2013. Anything else we propose outside criteria will simply be rejected by the European Commission. It is not the choice of the Minister, the services or the country. Because if we do not follow the criteria closely, to the extent that we can broaden them, we can see them in their flexible form, quite simply when our proposal from the committee is back, they will have been cut off by the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u103	Well, I can't give any more time for the question about the torch.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u105	It's like solving the flu virus problem. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism "Thematic Tourism - Specific forms of tourism - Arrangements for the modernisation of the institutional framework in the field of tourism and tourism education - Support for tourism entrepreneurship and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 3 December 2018 that the draft law should be discussed at a single meeting on principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u107	The House has agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, so far there are three ministerial amendments. One of them, with a general number of 1823 and a special 9, will be defended by Mr Arachovitis. Mr Arachovitis, I give you the floor for three minutes to take account of the content of the amendment by the rapporteurs and the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to begin by thanking the head of the Ministry of Tourism, my colleague, who accepted the inclusion of the amendment, because it is quite relevant. It is an amendment, which concerns fisheries and in the bill we have an article on fishing tourism, where, among other things, the dividing lines enter, finally, a limit and a delimitation of the forms of tourism in the country. That's why it's a great bill we're talking about today. With regard to the amendment: its first part, paragraph 1, is also a regulatory obligation of the country, but it actually fills in the institutional gap, which was in place for the control of fishing and fishing vessels flying the flag of international waters. It was an obligation of the country that must have been completed by the end of the year and with the amendment we are fine and regulatory. Now, the second case of the same paragraph corrects an incorrect error and makes a correction in respect of the amended Article 35 of Law 420/70. In addition, it shall extend until 15 December 2018 the deadline for the preparation of the first evaluation report on the rent of farmed water. This is because the LAGs have not yet drawn up their report or drafted it late, so they are given a deadline to adapt. Paragraph 2 shall be replaced by paragraph 11 of Article 10 of Law 4492, in order to allow an extension by the end of the year to the compulsory amendment of the IAT Conventions to fisheries cooperatives. This is necessary because the procedures applied for the first time are rather complex and a time to adjust must be given. In case (a) of paragraph 3, the first subparagraph of Article 27(1) of Law 4282 shall be replaced in order to adapt the farming units to the new data. A two-year extension is therefore granted, but only for applications from units submitted by 29 August 2018. We're not talking about new applications, we're talking about adaptation. We recognize that the procedures are too long and that is why we are moving forward with this regulation so that they can be given this opportunity. In cases (b) and (c) of paragraph 3, please fill in paragraph (a), and it is explicitly laid down that the deadline expires on 31 August 2020. Finally, point (a) of paragraph 4 of the proposed provision transfers the time for the obligation of fishermen fishing for whole fish, to put the VMS system, satellite monitoring and the electronic fishing logbook, the ERS. This is because coastal fishermen, in order to incur these two systems, have an increased cost. With the extension we are giving them, they are able to obtain these systems, through the Programme of the ESDP, the Operational Fisheries Programme, which is expected to run. And within this two-year period they will be able, instead of paying for it from their pocket, to join the program and acquire it. Finally, in the case of (b) of paragraph 4, the permitted length of the air supply tube shall be increased to fishermen, in the holo-thorous divers, so that, on the one hand, the two-legislative provisions can be synchronised, on the other hand, it is the request of fishermen, of the divers for greater safety in diving. To conclude, Mr President, I would also like to put forward some legislative improvements, with which some words change substantially. Thank you very much and I hope you will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, once Mr Igoumenides has started, the electronic record will be opened. As soon as Mr. Consolas is done, the electronic record will be closed. After we see how many of the registered members will be, we will see the course of the meeting. Secondly, if, Minister, you have legislative improvements, as soon as possible, to prepare them so that the rapporteurs can take account of them, so that we can begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Kefaliannis, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u112	I would like to refer to a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u113	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u114	In addition to the three ministerial amendments, there are six MEPs. If the Minister is ready to tell us which of the...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Kefaliannis, you are an experienced man. Before the Minister talks, what should we ask? From the beginning? By the time we have to, we'll ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u116	She can be ready by now to prepare.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u117	It can never be done at first.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u118	I say this, Mr President, because we have seen the phenomenon, we have constantly come to amendments at the last minute and we are not prepared. If there's a picture from the Minister, it'll make it easier for us. Otherwise...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Kefaliannis, when it is time for the Minister to go up to Stepma, you know that I always ask about parliamentarians. I will give you more time, Madam President, and Minister, in order to respond to colleagues' amendments. I, as an old Member, first put the Members' amendments and then the ministers. It's going to be what you say when you have to. You're right, so you know, but not before Mr. Igoumenides talks. Ladies and gentlemen, here I have the honour of announcing in this House: The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its report to the Prosecutor's request for the authorisation of criminal prosecution against a Member. The Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Interior, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Citizen Protection, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Health and Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, the Deputy Ministers of Finance and the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Economic Affairs, submitted a draft law on 4 December 2018: ‘Following the provisions on reduction of pensions, incorporation into Greek Legislation of Directive 2016/97/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 January 2016 on the distribution of insurance and other provisions’. This draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent and has been referred to the competent Standing Committees. Mr Igoumenides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, now, in our first memorial steps, where the soul and heart of our policy are the attempt to heal the wounds of society, the debate on tourism comes in plenary. The truth is that it is coming a long time ago, compared with other European countries. Today we are called upon to legislate in the context of the organisation, promotion and operation of many thematic tourism activities. The truth is that there is a great responsibility in the previous governments, which for decades had left tourism "to the autopilot". This lack of a legal framework, together with the lack of corresponding policies, condemned many regions of our country in their total absence from the national and international tourist maps for a very long time, since, for objective or other reasons, it was not even possible to develop this mass tourism, with its well-known intrinsic problems and deadlocks. We are therefore coming today to discuss tourism, for a sector of the Greek economy, which is directly or indirectly involved in 20%, namely 1/5 of our country's GDP, and which accounts for 25%, i.e. 1/4 of jobs. We are talking about a sector of the Greek economy, which we want, but which, regardless of our will, is one of the foundations of Greece of the new era. It is not by chance, in our view, that Greek tourism has been the course of the last three years. "Yes, but you describe record, describe successes, while we did not see benefits, we did not see the development we expected." That was the central idea of the criticism of the draft law that we are discussing in the Central Association. In this respect, and without speaking about 2018, which is even better year by year, to say that during 2017 Greece recorded thirty million international arrivals, an increase of 9% in tourist traffic, accompanied by an increase of 10.5% in tourist revenue. In addition, the tourism sector absorbed EUR 3 billion in 2017, while more than three hundred fifty investment projects in four-and-a-half star hotels were licensed over this three-year period. However, this positive course of Greek tourism from record to record should not lead to rest. In addition to the vote of today's draft law, much remains to be done, much remains to be clear, much remains to be decided, so that Greek tourism can finally be exempted from problems that have been stirring it up for decades, from problems that, among other things, continue to face, such as competitiveness and seasonality. One of the topics that emerges predominant is the question of tourism education. This is a big issue, which, of course, stands out and goes beyond the limits of the current draft law. However, it is worth opening and continuing this debate on all professions, from the graduates of the PESALs and the IEKs of the Ministry, the assistants of the tourist professions, the assistant of the cook, the assistant of the gardener, to the schools of the tours, the ambassadors of our country within our country, to the university-level schools, from which the highest officials of the tourist business will graduate. We need to have such an integrated debate, in which, obviously, the relevant Ministries of Education, Tourism and Culture must be involved, that the relevant bodies of secondary and tertiary education are involved, that tourism operators and workers, from which an integrated plan for tourism should emerge for the schools and their content, for the placement of these schools, for the development of existing and new infrastructures, for the evaluation of the units to which students are apprenticeships or practical education, for their assessment, specifications and placement of the units to be integrated into them. Ladies and gentlemen, a component in Greece of the new era, which we are planning and going on with, is the recovery of work, the recovery of the European acquis, which in our country has been severely affected during the period we have spent. It is no coincidence that the employees in the tourism sector, the hotel workers, have a collective contract of employment. 'Yes, but how many of them are really under the cover of the collective labour contract'. ‘Yes, but in how many enterprises does the collective agreement apply’? These were the questions he raised in the debate prior to the Committees by the Communist Party of Greece. Although this question goes beyond this draft law, although - if you like - the answer to this question is more competent than the Ministry of Labour, I think we should not go beyond these objections unfoundedly, ladies and gentlemen. The government must make a constant effort, along with the workers, so that all workers in our country are under the umbrella and the protection of collective agreements. In this sense, both the parties and the bodies and the collectives of the workers must have our ears open and we must listen to their proposals both for the control mechanisms and for dealing with infractionality. In the debate prior to that, a positive reflection has been developed on the ability of each region to bring about an extension of the tourist season directly and directly to the general spatial tourism plan, which we need, of reflection on other forms of thematic tourism - hunting, motorised, cavalry - concerns about the length of the tourist season in the direction of tourism throughout the year, and on the great amount of secondary legislative work it needs, so that it does not end up with a text that we will shortly be voting on, but really facilitate the development of the thematic tourism. I also hold three open points from the debate in the committees. The first is the issue of tours and special licensing cases. The proposals in the committees have been heard. I don't repeat them. Definitely no special permission can be granted for a year. The issue of visitor movements in our country is open by means of means of transport, without a tariff, but also the issue of outdoor leisure activities. We are waiting for the Minister's reply and we will then address these open questions. I would like you to allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to devote the rest of my speech to the most important issue that has made its criticism of SYRIZA by New Democracy. He said: Okay on individual issues, here we agree, that's where we disagree. We may agree to have some shocks. However, what characterizes SYRIZA's policy is that it has no strategic planning, does not have a strategy for tourism. I would therefore like to present precisely this proposal, the strategic planning of the Left for tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, Greek tourism, in addition to beauty, needs a comprehensive redesign, a redesign, focusing this time on a new human-centered tourist model. What are the characteristics of this model? Firstly, a model that perceives tourism, particularly as a response to people's needs to meet other people, as a response to people's needs to meet other cultures, as a response to people's needs to have free time and be able to use it to complete their personality. Secondly, a model that will propose and ensure in an attractive and quality way the greatest stay in a place and consciously - since one chooses this stay - greater spending. Thirdly, such an anthropocentric tourist model, based on a new perspective of tourism, where the individual is represented, the customer becomes a guest, the visitor becomes a friend and the friend becomes a guest. Fourthly, such a new tourist model, which is included in the term 'tourism for all' and in the qualitative passage from the development of tourism to development tourism. Fifthly, a new model of tourism, where infrastructure does not take precedence, but rather, in order to serve documented, planned and sustainable development of tourism, and where, before that, the concept of quality, which is not only the same - and above all the same - as accommodation areas and construction materials, but above all, with the relations of people, with the beauty of the landscape, local culture, local gastronomy and the hospitable mood, will have been answered. For all the criticism, but also for the views that have been expressed, I will soon be allowed to mention two, three examples. Ladies and gentlemen, as it is not enough to put you in a toilet of flour, sugar, oil and water and say that you have made cookies, so it is not enough to be at an airport of the last standards, on a road of the latest standards of access to it, in a structure of high standards, in a accommodation structure and then in a transport limo, to say that you made a tourist product. Today - to continue with the examples - the enemy of Greek tourism is this strong trend of homogenisation. What do I mean? Really, a five-star hotel, how different from another five-star hotel, on the substance of its facilities and benefits, is it located in Florida, Morocco or Argentina? And go further, because a lot has been said about gastronomy and gastronomic tourism, etc. It is obvious that such high-level structures now offer all the kitchens, from American breakfast to Mexican cuisine or Mediterranean cuisine. Incidentally, my late professor - and my own - Trichopoulou did not study the Mediterranean diet. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is a blessed place, which has the luck of having a wide variety of resources, which can support this new human-centered model of tourism, which can be transformed into tourist experiences with terms and commercial use and at the same time their protection, thus contributing to the diversification of the Greek tourist product, its enrichment and the long-standing expansion of the tourist season. Greece has a diversity of resources, which as key elements of the Greek tourist model are and require maximum protection and respect in order to ensure their long-term exploitation. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on this draft law may constitute a starting point for a new model where mass tourism should coexist with special thematic tourism, but with respect for the environment, local culture and human beings. Only such a model, which is fed by local raw materials, i.e. which acquires identity, can respond to intense international competition, using precisely these elements, which differentiate it and protect it from this trend of homogenisation. How can we do this, ladies and gentlemen? Let it be a few hundred meters away, the tourist product provided by Kos and Rhodes is a paradox in front of the tourist product, which provides the opposite beaches. This is the value of the Greek tourist product, under these conditions, tourism must be provided in our country, so that it can stand on the international market, namely to address one billion of our fellow citizens, the people of the world who move for tourist reasons today or one billion eight hundred million of the respective citizens who move for the same reasons in 2030. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I believe that this new human-centered model of tourism, which we need to develop in our country, should be equipped and equipped with its own modern tools: a modern, collective, tourism policy, designed with a holistic approach, a legislative safeguard and other basic parameters - spatial frameworks, regulations, specific legislation - real and effective coordination of cooperation between public and private bodies, modern tools for promoting, promoting and communicating, maximising the use of new technologies and modern monitoring and analysis tools. And I am referring to the tourism observatory, the tourism satellites, the field surveys. Through such a route, through such an approach, Greek tourism, in our view, can secure its long-term interests, both economic and environmental, society, work, moral and cultural. Ladies and gentlemen, the wording of such a new model in its specialisation should be our next obligation, if we want - and the Left wants it - to be able to create space for themselves and for other sectors of the Greek economy, thereby continuing to operate, not as a monoculture, but by offering its important services in the country. Thank you,
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, we should welcome our former colleague and mayor of Kasu, Mrs Chanaki. Welcome, Mrs. Chanaki. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u122	It concerns an amendment, Mr President, which Members will have in their hands shortly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u123	It will be distributed within a short time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u124	It is an amendment which sets out a number of issues, such as: minimum standards for the establishment of each casino category, i.e. the simple type or wide spectrum, the life of the concession, the amount of the initial capital, set at EUR 500,000 or EUR 1 million, and depends on how large it is initially and after five years it is ten times more. So, according to mathematics, that means - even those who are lawyers will know - that it will be EUR 5 million or EUR 10 million. We also have the establishment of the casino competition committee. I can tell you that within a month, the procedure for the casino contest will be started. In this amendment, we are putting aid for casinos, which already exist, and for how they can get into the new system. Finally, there are some legislative changes that we made wrong in the number of articles. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u126	I would like to refer to an amendment to proclamation 3K/2018. It is about the initiative taken by our government last year to declare permanent staffing at the county payroll services throughout the country in cleaning and watering services. You know very well that this is the largest relevant notice that has ever been launched by the Greek state. It concerns the recruitment of eight and a half thousand permanent staff in cleaning and water supply. Following the adoption of the provisional tables by the AACC last March, many municipalities proceeded to enter into fixed-term employment contracts with these workers. For reasons of public interest, public health protection, with this amendment, which we are tabling today, we are prolonging the validity of these eight-month contracts, which expire on these days, until the adoption of the final tables by the AACC so that there is no gap and that the municipalities, having the necessary staff, can carry out their essential tasks relating to cleanliness. I would remind you that this is a time-consuming procedure. It's a long time, because it's a lot of thousands of jobs. We, as the Ministry of Interior - as well as the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction - have supported the AACC, which has sole responsibility and responsibility for completing the relevant procedures for issuing the final tables. We expect the next few weeks to complete this process by the independent authority, to have the final tables and to place it in three hundred and twenty-five municipalities in the country this legal staff, which is essential, especially for cleaning services. In any case, however, we must protect the public interest and public health. In this sense, we move on to today's amendment to ensure that all municipalities have the necessary staff by extending these eight months to the final version of the 3K tables from the ADP. But let me make a comment, Mr President, because the Mayor of Kasu is here. I have been informed that a parliamentary amendment to the proclamation has been tabled as a testament to Kassos and the Fishes. We have discussed this with the mayor and the Members who tabled this amendment. I consider this initiative to be very important. We as the Ministry of Interior support it, because we believe that safeguarding the historical memory of these martyr places, as well as of all the martyr places throughout the country, is very important. It is an obligation of the Greek state. Of course, these places are martyristic. It was then, when the Holocausts, who have been deprived of their lives, took place in thousands of our fellow citizens. But there are also places where today there are a great deal of weight, being remote areas of our country. We believe it is the minimum recognition that the Greek state can make for these important islands of the Aegean Sea. In addition to this, we are trying with all our powers to support our islands in their great effort to keep the world there and to make it a pretext for their inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, too. Madam Secretary, do you want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much. I would also like to say that I accept this amendment, Mrs Mayor. We have supported the island of Kasso in many ways. I don't know if you know. This is another indication of the interest of our remote islands. I mean, I'm very proud and happy to help make this little ballet school for young children. We helped the private sector very much and you made this amazing school for young children. I've known the teacher, Elisa Palley, for many years. He's finished the Royal Ballet School of England. She decided to devote her life to this project. I also spoke to Mr Haritsis, who is the Minister of the Interior, to see how we can support this effort, not just for this year. You can understand that the private sector, of course, has come and helped. But I hope that now the Ministry of Interior and you as Mayor will support this effort so that these children can enjoy an athletic, creative activity on the island of Kassos every year. I ask the Minister to see this with you. To see how it is possible to get out of this very small line, which I don't think will be more than 10,000 euros to keep this school in Kasso. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Minister. The special speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a very important day indeed. Diameter of Minister of the Interior and with the consent of the Minister of Tourism, the martyr island of Kasos and the Fishes takes what the Greek state had to give him for many years, decades now. It is recognized as a martyr island. I am pleased that Mr Michaelides and Mr Gatis have brought this amendment, but then, Mr Minister, our amendment, which we tabled to the National Representation and with many decisions by the Municipality of Kassos, the Mayor of Kassos, the region. We are pleased about that. In fact, from this side, the bill is extremely important. It will remain in our historical memory as a bill, which yielded honors and gratitude, which corresponds to a minimum price on these two martial islands. Seeing the President of the Dodecanese Associations in the gallery and the President of the Kassos Cultural Organisation, Mr Champanaki, I can see their question, because the Minister of Tourism said he has given the islands. We agree. Madam Minister, you could have given more. And you could have given the islands affected by the refugee waves as well. You promised. They're still trying to find their pace in terms of tourism development. The truth is that Mr. Haritsis has put us in the climate of the election season. This regulation on the amendment you tabled, Mr Minister of the Interior, how else could it be characterised by an amendment to the election? If this is not an election amendment, what could it be? In any case, however, we are here to discuss, without ideology and without purpose. Before I begin this debate, allow me to say a lot about the great day of Saint Nicholas' celebration to colleagues and President of the National Representation, who is also celebrating today. I would like this wish to be addressed to the whole nation at a time when, literally, the place is going through a very difficult time, not only because of the economic crisis but also because of the issues that are evolving in our geopolitical neighbourhood. We are talking today about a bill, which could truly have a substantial content. Give solutions to great and existent problems. To strengthen and prospects for tourist development, particularly in new forms, which differentiate our tourism product. "Could," I repeat. Despite the positive differences and forecasts that we do not hesitate to support and support, the bill would say that it is moving on the basis of the principle of fragmentation. In some cases, in order to alleviate negative impressions from the four years of inertia and immorality in areas where the government has found an institutional framework ready, such as in the case of medical tourism, this fragmentation is also being attempted. I say this once again, although we also had the opportunity for the committees to discuss it. The first part of the bill gives a simple presentation of definitions of thematic tourism and simply records the context of the activities of the thematic tourism and the forms of tourism. On a theoretical level, however, my colleague, Mr Gülekas, told me that he counted more than twenty-seven interministerial decisions that would need this bill. You're right, Mr. Giuleka. And that's not all. It is a stable tactic of the government, because at practical level there are problems and specific axes to the thematic forms of tourism, which are not dealt with by this regulation. There the leadership of tourism had to be focused, that's the truth. And I say this with good faith on all sides of the National Representation, the Minister of Tourism and the leadership had four years to be able to regulate these provisions, to record the obstacles, the strangles and the abstractions that create this dystocia, as the bill states, and to develop these alternative forms of tourism, in fact, with cooperation with other ministries, and to rejoice if there was an integrated legislative intervention. Unfortunately, however, in its swan, the government resorted to a bill from the Ministry of Tourism and instead of a strategic plan for a sustainable tourism product, instead you chose to remain at the theoretical level and in the field with definitions in which, however, many issues arise. I am going to refer to Article 6, which includes all the activities of businesses, which are linked to outdoor activities in sporting recreation, while some are not sporty or sporty. Other Members have pointed this out to you, but you have also been told by the relevant bodies. In fact, I told you, Minister, that in the United States of America the term for this thematic form of tourism is 'outdoor activities' and this term is acceptable to international literature and to the tourist market. We insist that we see with a more open eye sport and recreation. You insist and identify the concepts of sport with recreation. Nevertheless, there are fragmentary arrangements which one might say are moving in a positive direction. Let me refer to the regulation concerning the Conventions and Sessions Organisers register. It is now a consistent concept, established by the operators of tourism, but also by us in the New Democracy, we have said so publicly, within and outside the House, that this regulation was needed. The Conferences and Conferences Organisers' register was a programme commitment and ours. We are indeed pleased that this perspective exists because they are putting order in a place where there was an uncontrolled activity, which in some cases undermined the quality indicators in conference tourism. We are pleased that this regulation is a provision, which is indeed reflected in the request of the times, but, if necessary, in the course of time, we are committed the next day that we will proceed to further arrangements. In tourism, it is true that there is a feeling that there should be the principle of the continuity of the state, established in the government, which we have not seen. We, you know - we also assure from this Step - that the next day, the New Democracy will continue to support it. The truth is that the sense of changing a government that is marginalising what has been positive from the past is a sense that citizens have removed from their own culture and are not liked, not only to listen to it, but above all to experience it. This is a major political difference of the New Democracy with the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, Minister. The same - to return to my initial report - applies to the arrangements for amending the provisions of Law 393/1976 on the establishment and operation of tourist offices, which must have similar conditions, which are currently on the market adapted to their activities, which are not a static size, but are constantly evolving. Let me now make a reference to health tourism. And I will insist, Minister. I know your position, you've answered me. I personally believe that you have not convinced me, not only but also many of those who have seen you, because you have received an integrated institutional framework in relation to health tourism, as you say, if not medical tourism. You did not, however, go ahead with a certification process for providers, as well as the procedure for granting the distinguishing mark for medical tourism on the pretext that the respective structures, in particular, did not exist in the Ministry of Tourism and Health. Madam Minister, why didn't you go ahead with this? Why did you not proceed with the reorder of your organogram and the respective Ministry of Health for four years now and proceed to a change by moving the centre of gravity from the Ministry of Tourism to the pulse of the Ministry of Health. However, even if we accept this for the economy of the debate, you have now seen this after four years in the twilight of your term of office. What have you been doing for four years? Didn't you notice from the beginning? So it took you to bring us these two-three articles that regulate health tourism, which effectively transfer the competence of keeping the Register of Medical Tourism Providers from the Ministry of Tourism to EEAH? For four years you have done nothing in the direction of this health tourism. Once again, Madam Minister, I respect you and respect the Ministry's leadership - but we have heard you say many times that the Ministry of Tourism had a strategy, a four-year policy. Let me tell you that the strategy for tourism needs a lot of governments. It is not just exhausted to the limits of a government's term of office. I want to assure you that we have established a plan for the next day that goes beyond our own government over the next four years. It will also touch the limits of the post-enforcement government. And here we need to discuss without purpose, without hugging, that is the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u131	Tell us this plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u132	We have the opportunity, my dear colleague, and within and outside Parliament to table proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Colleague, we're not answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u134	And in and out of Parliament, we have tabled proposals, positions, which you have not done all these four years. But we will be given the opportunity to see it - our plan - unfolding very soon now that the elections are coming, and it is not just the demographic elements that show New Democracy as a next government, but it is the pulse of society and you in your region know it, you experience it. From that point on, let me refer to the provisions relating to hotel and tourist accommodation offering special tourist infrastructures. A prerequisite is the possibility of building the tourist accommodation in combination with the special tourist infrastructure, to be linked to the quality element of the tourist product provided. I will agree with the provisions and sanctions on illegal tourist accommodation operating at the expense of public revenues, to the detriment of those who observe the legality, but also to the detriment of the quality of our tourism. It is a provision that should have been foreseen in time and should have been seen by the Ministry of Finance earlier. Apart from sanctions, however, we also need to look at the issue of controls on illegal tourist accommodation. Checks that have substantially shrinked. In fact, in our enthusiasm the government has not provided evidence of how many times, how many checks, how many revenues. The scope of the quality indicators of our tourism is also the classification and grading of tourist accommodation. You all know, ladies and gentlemen, that this responsibility has had the HR so far. It remains the ranking of the hotels. But we need to see what happens in the hospitality services included in the tourist furnished houses and in the rented rooms. I am talking about the qualitative indicator in terms of the classification and classification of these services. We need to see that, too. But, Minister, you did not like the previous way of ranking. Are we sure that regional tourism services are ready to undertake this important project? Ladies and gentlemen, to tourism it is true that there are no places for ideologies and for dry party controversies. In this sense, we basically consider some positive provisions which you are trying to simplify, place and create tourist ports. Allow me, however, to comment on Article 35 which the Minister for Tourism can place the tourist port within an area of an existing commercial port. You know that there is a process of granting commercial and not just ports to a strategic investor. This provision may create problems in the concessions of ports which have already been or are to be made in the future. In any case, when we legislate, we must bear in mind that the country needs investment and our common objective must be to remove the obstacles to the realization of these investments. On many occasions, colleagues in the New Democracy, our President Kyriakos Mitsotakis has spoken about this. We have, however, pointed out the problem that can be created by the involvement of the supranational, claiming marinas exploited by the first and second grades. It confirms this, indirectly but clearly, and the Scientific Office of the Parliament in its observations on Article 53. According to this article, the competent section of the Hellenic Tourism Organization is given the power to exploit, exploit or hire real estate, which contributes to the provision of revenues and to the defence of the public interest through the use of public property. What does the Scientific Committee of the Parliament say to you? It tells you that the proposed provision of paragraph 1 of Article 53 of the draft law on the exploitation, exploitation, leasing, leasing, concession, conclusion, renewal and modification of the relevant contracts must be amended, since those powers belong to the excess. This is a point, Minister, which you cannot pass, and despite your good intention you have an insurmountable obstacle. I would remind you that the excess has your signature. That's the truth. It is therefore necessary to clarify this issue once this involvement is created which creates uncertainties in the course of time. With regard to the amendment concerning earthquakes in Zakynthos, can anyone doubt that we will be voting in favour of it? We have talked about Kasso and the Fisheras, and I think, when the time comes, we will vote on it, Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President, just a minute. Squeeze it from my dentistry. As I said before, the bill has the principle of fragmentation and processiveness established. The positive provisions which exist and which are provided for in this report will be supported. However, it is not the bill in any case in the field of tourism, and in that sense we cannot vote in favour of it. Four whole years the government has distinguished itself from one sector only: the imposition of new taxes, the burden on tourism, which this product has made incompetitive in relation to our neighbourhood. Four whole years the government has imposed so many taxes that, unfortunately, independent authorities have also publicly submitted their proposal that there should be de-escalation. I see Mr Vesyropoulos here who is tired of discussing these issues on the ground. The New Democracy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the next day will deviate this tax raid you have imposed in four years. Also, may I say, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that 80% of the dominance is stricken in trenches due to spatial planning, which is in 2003. It's been 15 years since. The models of global tourism development have been reordered, we have good examples, there are new products, new market trends and, unfortunately, the country is part of regional projects which, unfortunately, are not identified throughout the territory. Unfortunately, these disparitys imposed by this government by Mr Tsipras have also caused problems in attracting investment. You see what happens in the Greek, Kassiopi, Kassandra, in the Gulf of Afantou, but elsewhere. It is therefore characteristic that even border regions in neighbouring regions have a problem with regard to the tourism market. I do not want to deprive myself of my time, Mr President. I would like to say that the New Democracy cannot vote in favour of this bill. The New Democracy, however, is a charity in the effort, an effort that the government has slowed down to begin. Let me remind you, in conclusion, that all parties have co-signed to the Committee on Production and Trade to discuss the proposal on tourism education and, fortunately, the Minister at the end of her term of office has announced that she will bring another bill - if she can bring it before the end of the government's term of office - on tourist education. We hope that, for other days, those remaining in the government will not be followed and that the government will respect the common anger to lead the country to elections. Because the sooner they become the better for the Greek territory. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The special speaker of the Democratic Association Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, after Mr Carras' speech, we will dismantle the course of the debate in order to move forward with the lifting of immunity. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Today the meeting began unorthodox, Mr President. Before the first rapporteur even spoke, an amendment was supported by the Ministry of Rural Development, then the majority rapporteur followed and automatically came the Minister of Finance and tabled an amendment, the content of which we saw later. So I want to start my speech today unorthodoxly. I shall refer first of all to this amendment by the Minister for Finance. Today at 10.00 a.m., the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is meeting with the Committee on Economic Affairs, where a draft law is being discussed and the Ministry of Finance, which contains tax provisions, contains provisions on the Customs Code, contains matters of public property in Articles 59 to 84. But Mr. Chakalotos left. He said that the amendment would be tabled and did not explain why he was abandoning the regular procedure. He didn't explain it to us in a bill that is about tourism, he brings provisions on the international competition for Parnitha's casino. And I am simply asking myself, if you would like: did the government want to avoid the process of regular legislative operation? Did he want to avoid the debate within the committee responsible? Did he want to overcome that danger, or is he hiding something else? We're waiting for answers. Because we consider it a serious matter, it even violates the Rules of Procedure. The Treasury bill, combined with the same bill, which includes provisions of the Ministry of Social Security, has already been introduced as an emergency. Therefore, there can be no urgent argument from the Minister of Finance for his amendment to the tourism bill. It should give answers to this point: was there a need or was there some feasibility that was not revealed within the House? It is a major issue that needs an answer. It is a political matter - I do not want to make any further thoughts - which is very concerned, because the government has avoided us by Mr Tsakalots not even with a five-minute stay after the speech of the next rapporteur, to ask for clarification, to ask. He ran away, and I think that should be blamed on the government. But I won't stay in this any longer. Because my interest at the moment is in the tourism bill, I would also like to refer to tourism issues. I see the Minister of Tourism has left too. Is that what he gives the bill, or doesn't he want to hear? Let's have him warn us he'll be gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u137	There's a Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u138	There's Mr. Pappas you want to say. All right, however, it does not have the competence of tourism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u139	There are also the colleagues of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u140	Partners do not participate in the parliamentary procedure, no matter what you say, ladies and gentlemen. Anyway, I'm going to overlook it. We've seen a lot in this Chamber these years. I will overlook it and move on to my concern about tourism. Yesterday, ELSTAT gave some evidence. He gave that growth in the third quarter of 2018 is estimated at 2.2%. Sounds positive, looks positive. The economic analysts also commented that part of this development was due to the tourism product. No one can say 'no' at this point. Automatically, however, in the previous days, there were publications that brought to light reports by both the SETE Institute and a large control company on the prospects of Greek tourism. And a different dimension was given. What was that dimension? At the moment from the thousands of five hundred registered hotels in the major tourist destinations, at least five hundred are indebted, which are managed by banks, under special liquidation or indebted to foreign creditors. This shows, therefore, that we are also conceiving tourism now, ladies and gentlemen. The report itself tells us that in order to modernise and maintain the same state of hotel accommodation in the major destinations, more than 3 billion euros are needed in order to be able to balance. So we have a reflection: Yes, good is the large number of tourists, is it good to work, pay income, but is there a future? Because I need to remind you of something else. Tourism is a sensitive industry, if we rank it in industry, is sensitive services, because it depends on the geopolitical balance of the world, it depends on international economic crises, it depends on a lot of things. Irrespective of whether we are discussing a bill on tourism today, we should improve the background. And I am not referring to these structures as such, whether they are well accommodations or not. We should also improve the framework within which they operate. And I am, therefore, going through the bill at the moment, which is multidisciplinary, in my view. Even though everything has a reference point to tourism, I will say that, it is multi-thematic, because it tries with Part I to give the image of definitions of tourism, thematic or special tourism. I have also told the committees that these concepts are not static so that they can be contained in terms of terms. They are concepts that are dynamic, evolving and, therefore, the introduction of definitions and, if you like, rules in this area, raises my concerns about whether or not they ultimately work restrictively or not. Fernández, theme tourism is cultural tourism. Don't specialize and limit him. Medical tourism needs a regulatory intervention. There is no doubt that health issues in medical tourism are serious, but that we do not get to a detailed qualification. In any case, this is a point which I have put to the committees and I do not want to repeat any more. I would like to go to private matters. And I would like to make a comment on this, since we are also talking about cultural tourism, and I am still on the subject of tourism. So I see here - and it is right - that there is a reservation in the bill: where intervention and tourist use are carried out in archaeological sites, then the provisions are now reserved for the payment of the fee for their authorisation for the AST, the so-called Archaeological Resources Fund. And I have a question. Yesterday, the Ministry of Culture announced that from ten thousand ten thousand nine properties, which came to the Real Estate, that is to say, two thousand four hundred more - I do not remember exactly the number - fall under the law of archaeological law, Law 3028. So I ask this: will these fees eventually go to the superstition for the debt, or will they serve the needs of the Greek economy? But let us not stay on this and let me move on to another point. I was also very concerned about the issue of tourist ports in the committee. I have raised the question that at all costs we should protect, because the provisions are detailed, the free access to the coast and the beach. I do not know if in the way in which tourist farms too will be entitled to request the granting of use, they will protect this free access, or we will have the phenomenon that many decades are encountered in the face of tourist facilities and in areas of tourist interest, that access for the world is closed on the shore. I therefore think that this should be protected even by an interpretation that will be given to the provisions on the grounds that, you know, it is also insulting for citizens to be closed down and not be able to come down to the shore. I note at the same point a note made by the Scientific Service of the Parliament on the tourist ports with which I fully agree, that this should be made by presiding decrees rather than by ministerial decision. The Council of State has said so many times: when it is a broader spatial planning, the process of the Presidential Decree should be followed so that there is a legality check by the Council of State. Here is a huge issue in relation to tourism, namely the lack of a National Spatial Plan. Is there? Did we hear anything about the bill discussion? We didn't hear anything. That is, of course, a standstill factor in development. I have also put two to committee - three issues in relation to the way the Agency of the Ministry of Tourism has changed and amended the organization of the Greek Tourism Organization, namely those which had been introduced and had been regulated by presidential decrees, should they then be amended by law. So what do I notice? Everything that's done by law, so they can overcome some obstacles. One example was given of the positions of directors-general. It is not specified that they will be able to be candidates for all disciplines and ratings of university education, limited only to economic and administrative sectors. I don't think that's good enough. Not only should everyone be given the opportunity to develop their professional careers to the highest degree, but also, in addition, the choice should be made here, because of the specific nature of the issue, and on the basis of criteria related to the object of tourism, to tourist development. We cannot object to tourism, of course, because it is something that should be supported. We have seen abuse of practice in recent years. And we see this practice with 'ERASMUS' programmes and others covered by foreign children, by children abroad. We don't take the Greek girls, the seats. It is something within the European Union. I'm not going to comment on it any more. However, on the occasion of the fact that today in this bill we have been afflicted by amendments and I fear that we will be afflicted even further, I am indebted to refer to three related amendments tabled by the Group of the Democratic Alliance. Firstly, the previous draft legislation raises the question of extending the right of monitors of fishing vessels and, in particular, of spongiform vessels to ensure that there is no distinction between spongiform and shellfish vessels and that they also have the right to suspend the use of the vessels mentioned in the spongiform encephalopathies, on the grounds that, if the amendment is not accepted, they will not be able to have the necessary composition of the crew and will not be able to renew the authorisations for operation and fishing. A second amendment that is important and related to tourism is the famous special fee, hotel accommodation tax, which has been imposed by the recent Act of 2016. Because we have not met any provisions to replace the old tax, the well-known night's fee for hotels, we propose and ask for this fee to be equivalent to the municipal tax. This is not the end in favour of the public, but to be a municipal tax, to cover both the needs and financial obligations of the municipalities, which are often limited to a small tax revenue from the municipal fee, and to be able to have the corresponding functions and have the revenue required, when they receive, in particular, hundreds of thousands of visitors, who are very burdening on the operation of the municipalities. The municipalities themselves do not carry out business themselves, as is well known, to say they benefit from the presence of visitors. Let us at least replace part of the income loss or expenditure due by the large number of visitors with the tax, the end of the stay. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if I may, let me take a minimum of time from my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u141	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u142	Thank you. Is the Minister absent again? It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u143	It's okay. You're telling him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u144	I have already commented on it, but I have not been heard. Stop? If I'm going to interrupt my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Carras, go on now. All right, the Minister will be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, if I am also a participant in violation of the Rules of Procedure, I would not like to do so because of the Ministerial absence. You can understand that we have to respect the Rules of Procedure once.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u147	I say keep going. All the ministers were here a while ago. They're gone now, but they're coming back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u148	Whether it's or not, it's the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u149	My dear colleague, I do not want to say the word that comes to me automatically at the moment, because you understand that I will be particularly inappropriate if necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u150	Please, Mr Carras, continue on this subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, who is listening to this matter at the moment? So I'm talking about the outsiders in the Chamber? Am I not talking about the House? I shall now proceed and close with the third amendment. Anyone who wants to hear, whoever wants to listen doesn't listen. In the third amendment, the issue is...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u152	That is the point, Mr Colleague, the amendments...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u153	There's no government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u154	The government is missing, there are no amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u155	They should be withdrawn then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Loverdo, let us finish this conversation. The observation has been made. What else can we do? Should we interrupt now? He's got two more minutes to finish Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u157	I'll just say this to finish and then I mix up, if you want, to say it directly, don't make use of another expression. We have tabled an amendment. It also addresses tourism business issues. They are all charged by heavy taxes, by contributions, by the overprofits of foreign offices that pluck Greek tourist businesses. At some point, we need to talk about this, and that is why, what faces Greece and what faces foreigners from all of these so-called thirty-three million tourists who visit us. To speak about it, ladies and gentlemen, what the percentage of profits is being wasted by foreigners and what the percentage of profits left for our country is. It's too small. If you want, look into it and you'll find out, it's too small. And because companies are indebted, the government will have to accept the hundred and twenty instalments we are asking for public debts, the insurance funds with an advance of 5%. The government tells us that it has left the memorandum, that it has no commitment and that it has - it says - a financial area to meet requests. This draft law meets several requests partly of the industry and, secondly, a special non-confidential account should be established so that the State does not intervene at any time in any payment for all professionals in any deposit. Instead of leading to growth, we lead to surpluses which are the worst anti-development measure that can exist in the economy and above all in the free economy, as we want to publish in Greece. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. We should welcome Mr. Constantine Vracan, the Mayor of Fishermen who is with us. It's an important day for both Kasso and Psara. She's here, and Mrs. Chanaki's welcome. Thank you for coming. The Mayor of Karpathos is here, too. Thank you very much for your presence. Ladies and gentlemen, we will suspend the debate on the bill for a while to proceed on the special agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Request for waiver of immunity: Debate and decision, pursuant to Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, on the request for the waiver of immunity of the Member, Mr Christos Pappas. The report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 6 December 2018, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Christos Pappas should not be removed. The case of paragraph 8 of Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure is the case in this case, according to which a new request for prosecution based on the same facts is unacceptable. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide, by raising the hand or by reopening the request of the Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 108(1). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that according to a decision of the Conference of Presidents on 7 March 2018, this procedure has triggered the new system of electronic roll-call voting. After the debate on the case of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote as I have already said. The case concerns Mr Christo Poppa. Is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? There's no colleague. Please, open up the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, in which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the count, which will follow and be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u161	Once the procedure has been completed, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the electronic roll-call vote on the request for the waiver of immunity of Mr Christos Pappas. A total of 107 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 26 Members voted. Against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NO', they voted 61 Members. 'PARON' were voted 20 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. The result of the roll-call vote, as reflected by the electronic system and shown on the screens of the Chamber, shall be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and shall be as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming back to the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotaros.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Today is St. Nicholas' feast. Happy birthday to the Chief of Golden Dawn, many years to the holidaymakers. He's the protector of our Navy, the protector of our Navy. We are talking today about a bill on thematic tourism. Very interesting title, interest and the bill for a country that, fortunately or unfortunately, has as a master of its economy tourism. Normally, and even too late, this bill for our country, Greece. First of all, we would like to inform you - although you know most of you are related to tourism or not - that tourism in Greece is literally on the autopilot. Why? Because our country has incredible advantages for someone who wants to spend a few days or weeks in this blessed place. And all the geopolitical junctures of the last decade came to the south-eastern Mediterranean and North Africa where great tourist destinations collapsed either because of civil conflicts and conflicts or because of Islamic, etc., and so too many of those on holidays in these places come to our homeland. Of course this will eventually end and if we are not prepared properly to continue to be competitive - because it is not just the sun, the sea, and a good tavern on the beach to come to Greece - we will lose many of the tourists we have earned in recent years. It is ironic to talk about thematic tourism, when the flagship of this type of tourism in our country is and should be religious tourism, where millions of orthodoxs around the globe could come to our homeland to visit the monasteries, churches, Mount Athos, Meteora, all this majesty within the Greek territory. It is also ironic that we have the world's largest Orthodox country, Russia, in essence persecuted, not to give visas to prominent Russians to visit Mount Athos and other places. Imagine what they'll say back home. It is relatively difficult for a Russian to make a visa, while other third-world, quarantine or illegal immigrants enter our country without any excuse. And all of this, because Greece is dragging behind interests within the European Union and NATO at the expense of Russia, either with the embargo, whether or not. Because tourism is also the prosperous Russian who comes to Greece and goes to Kastoria or another and along with his holidays he will buy furs from the famous furs, who beat their heads with what is happening in our country in recent years. The first theme tourism could be said - here we say with a great deal of irony - is the mayor of Thessaloniki, Mr. Boutaris, who had said so, of course, that "I want to fill Thessaloniki with Turks, who will come to visit the house where Kemal was born" - a great lie was not born there, but this is another story - and see every three and a little on the occasion of Muslim festivities - whether it's Bayram or I don't know what they're saying - and flood with Turkish flags on St. Demetrios outside the Consulate of Turkey. This raises the question of what theme tourism we want, in the sense of bringing back fatal tourists, but without any criteria or checks on why they are here and what they are doing here. I would like to explain that, with the Prespecies Agreement you signed, we will be filled with Skopje and fake chefs, who will come to see, as they say, their slave lands, see the land of their ancestors. They will come to leave their money, as will the Turks in Thessaloniki. This is something we want as a country, do we want it as a nation? Do we perhaps put any more euros that will come from someone above the interests of the country? Because tourism is also anarchitourism, the various boulevards who come unpopular, without euros in their pockets, around the district of Exarches, which cost us a lot, because, as you can see constantly, every three and a little bit of the disasters taking place in the center of Athens - millions of euros - of the well-known boulevards and when some people are arrested, they are temporarily brought to their overwhelming majority. Thematic tourism also has in Thailand, where all the strange, the "cursors" of the earth go there, because with great ease they will find ten-year-old children for their appetites whether they are pedophiles or homosexuals or I don't know what else. Because with the logic of the thematic tourism and in general tourism "to be tourism and to fill our homeland", then make themes which will have absolutely no moral barrier. Do you have that in mind at the bottom of your mind? Like the pioneer, Mr. Boutaris, do gay pride in every city, winter - summer, do stories? Since, as you say, you want to correct and extend tourism, you should also see what you are doing on the substance. With the memorials that you have all voted on here in Ethiopia, with the exception of us - Memorandum I, II, III and something in the medium term and in addition - and with your decisions where you have opened your borders, our homeland has been filled with hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants. You see areas that are tourist destinations and hit their head on the wall and throw them the "turkey" that you didn't have tourism in the summer, but in winter we will book you the hotel for three - four - five months to house illegal immigrants. Because we are looking to find refugees and do not find them among them to house them in various hotels throughout the territory. We also see thematic tourism and we have heard from previous speakers, and it is a very good idea that health tourism is a good idea. Our homeland has many medical sources, and if we had exploited them correctly, we could have many tourists of this kind. Really, how will a health tourism be doing in the hot baths, when due to the hot spot, the wider area is literally flattened? You say about tourism and the most tourist point in Greece and one of the most tourist sites in the whole world, the Acropolis area is full of criminal elements, coils of foreigners who steal every day, break cars, rape, or even kill, murder and run no chestnut. And then you say about the tourists coming. In fact, I would be curious if anyone could go from the Ministry informally one evening at Psirri, where they go many tourists for food and walk to St. Philippi, walk to Ermos, in the narrows, park his car and see how many chances he has to see it broken, looted by the coils of Algerians, Somalis and the North African or Pakistani who break up the area, and, of course, neither the police nor anyone can do anything anymore, because they have lifted the legs and weighed the head in this society. It is the historic centre we are constantly seeing - unfortunately, even though, as you say, growth comes in, closed shops on the main roads, in Stadium and elsewhere, rolls down, abandoned buildings, which, if there was growth, all this would have been built, modernized, renovated, renovated and operated in various forms. We see that you are constantly talking about tourism on the one hand and you bring a bill that has good and positive elements, but on the other hand, VAT on the islands will be high and this extension that for a few months is not even goldening the pill or the famous transport equivalent, where someone pays gold for their transfers to the Aegean islands. Because you know that it is not just the tourist season that is three, four, five or six months in the summer, but there are another seven or eight months that the inhabitants of the islands, which in summer are full of tourists, in winter, have to live there without absolutely essentials, because the infrastructure is funny, it is minimal, there is nothing on the substance. You are talking about tourism and about the theme tourism and you have not solved one of the most important problems anyone would want to deal with, bureaucracy, this ganger that works deterrently in all sectors of the economy. How many people who took lands - filleted on the government Samaras in 2012 and 2013, to make large investments for tourism and arrived in 2018 and go, even though they took them for free, very simply because they couldn't get a signature to start and put a brick. It is the famous night’s fee that along with all the other fees and taxes you put in, make our home uncompetitive. It is all of this, like the great taxation of operators who are active in tourism, like all the entrepreneurs, who cannot compete with multinational tourists, who have a large backup, while the small and medium-sized Greek has nothing at all and yet fight and try to breathe. Instead of seeing that tourism - unfortunately or happily we will say below - does work for a few months to Greek citizens and see that these jobs can be permanent, with better working conditions, no one is busy. Tourism alone, ladies and gentlemen, does not bring growth. He's a giant with clay legs. Like other countries that had a huge tourism product and collapsed within six months of an embargo, a war conflict, a civil conflict or anything else, so can be done at all times and at all times in our homeland. Many of these investments are prey to geopolitical tactics in the wider region of the south-eastern Mediterranean. Yes, tourism brings jobs, brings jobs. But on his own, it's not enough. It should also be possible for the shipping industry to resurrect, like the ship repair industry, as our country has the infrastructure, and to bring jobs so that millions of tourists can move from a healthy Greek coastline and not from a number of imported people who get any profits. At the same time, other sectors of our economy should be at a much better rate. Most of the tourist products sold in shops, clothing, while weaving, and textiles produced in Greece, now because of this industrial dismantling and abandonment, are either sewn abroad or from imported fabrics. All this could, on the occasion of tourism, also have incentives and have taken their way, in order to bring these sectors to the economy, to the country's GDP, an important chapter. To close, I'd say the bill has interesting articles. It also has articles that we will of course vote against, which you will listen to at the end by our parliamentary representative. It would be of great value if it were applied by a government that loves its place and puts above all Greeks in all areas. The millions of tourists should also be the only foreigners to come to our home country - with a visa of course - whether they are Europeans, Americans, or others - who are welcome all - with entrepreneurs and students and no one else. We, you see, have reached the point of making a thematic tourism for illegal immigration and a huge circuit that moves around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Drasakis has the floor to develop an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. This is an amendment with four articles, which I will say very briefly where they are concerned. The first concerns the Public Procurement Act, Law 4412. As you know, in our country there were too many regimes - more than three hundred, four hundred - regarding public procurement, public procurement. All this was replaced by Law 4412. But there is a presidential decree, which deals with advertising supplies - Presidential Decree 261/1997 - and so there is now a confusion between the two regimes, between what the Presidential Decree and what the law provides for. What is now happening is that we are abolishing the regulation of the Presidential Decree, so that it is clear that for all - even in these cases - no 4412/2016 applies. The second article is a number of regulations that want to provide flexibility in the management of the ESRB's resources, i.e. if a programme is not implemented at the appropriate rate, that resources may be transferred to another programme, even to a third, if necessary. The aim is to ensure that resources are made more fully used and so. The third article concerns development law, where we have the following problem: many projects had been incorporated into the law in force since 2004, more than they could be financed from the resources available and this stock has been reduced. But there are still some projects and the investors concerned are asking for an extension with the argument that during the crisis it was difficult to find funding - I mean the private funding they need - and now, having left the memoranda, with the economy in recovery, they hope that it will be easier to find a solution to this problem. That is why we are prolonging the time necessary for the implementation of these projects. The fourth article deals with the process of renewing licences for producers and professionals in rural trade. So far, they have been subject to tax and insurance information. Now we're separating that. In other words, the licence can be extended and the availability of information helps to modulate those who do not have more molecules than those who do not. So I think that all four of these arrangements are in the positive direction and they solve problems. In this sense, I would ask the House to accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Polakis, you have the floor to analyse the legislative improvements and your amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. This is an amendment which affects Article 16 of Law 4551/2018, which deals with the proclamation of the thousands of two hundred permanent staff in hospitals, in the health structures of the country, in the public structures, which concerns the staff who are currently serving with the institution of the subsidiary other staff. We're doing two settings. The one, which was wrong, said that the competitive process should be completed by 30-11-2018. He meant that the procedure had to have been carried out. We are giving this an extension - together with the legality we are tabling - due to the well-known bureaucracy of the Greek State, in order to complete the procedure of the notice until 21-12-2018 and delete the first paragraph with its legislative amendment, as this issue was resolved in consultation with the AACC, without any further amendment being necessary. So, Mr President, I am also tabling a legal improvement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u169	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Emmanuel Synthrakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Communist Party of Greece, as in all the bills, is placed on the basis of whom it favours, who it serves. The draft law on the thematic tourism reveals the great willingness of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to satisfy the plans of the major tourist groups in tourism. SYRIZA's proposals are the same as that of the New Democracy and PASOK, focusing on the strategy of capitalist development, strengthening competitiveness, exploiting new areas of profitability, without terms and limits, on land, sea and air, as well as on any sector that can be integrated into tourist packages and increasing the profitability of business groups, such as health, health sources, education, training, culture, sport, the environment and others. They aim, as they say, at so-called quality and other forms of thematic tourism, by creating four and five star luxury hotels that have increased rapidly in recent years and at the same time the lengthening of the tourist season. Since the debate in committee and here in Parliament, the draft law has been widely accepted by the other parties, with any individual reservations about the fragmentation of measures, etc. In our country sales, mergers, acquisitions of tourist infrastructure by multinationals are under way. The strong tour operators control more and more tourist businesses in our country. TUI ranks the first place, with more than thirty hotel units and expands. It participates in alternative tourism programmes in twenty-five countries, thirty of which supports, of course. In these alternative forms, it has been more decisive to control this sector as well. Investments in tourism are accompanied by projects in the transport sector, with immediate negative consequences in all sectors of the economy, such as agriculture and the environment. Many areas of the country have been transformed into tourist resorts, similar or supportive infrastructures. Their population almost violently abandons its basic involvement with agriculture, livestock, crafts and other activities to become cheap workers in tourism. In this context, for example in Crete, the contract for the new private civil airport in Kastelli Heraklion, which will ensure huge and surely profits from the study, construction and management of it in the consortium of foreign and local monopolistic groups, through the gross state funding, the loan to be paid by the employees and the free work of hundreds of workers working as modern slaves with the broken working relationships guaranteed by the current and previous governments. The JRC is the only one that has reacted to this robbery contract, which, of course, will vote against the House when it comes, because in addition to its exorbitant cost of construction and use - this is forbidden for popular strata - it is an environmental disaster, the expropriation of thousands of acres of land and the destruction of agricultural production, etc.. The Government's claim that, with the development of the theme tourism, sustainable, balanced and fair tourist development is about big capital and not about the workers and the populace. A balanced development that all parties - other than the JRC - hypocritically invoke - did not exist nor can there be in the context of capitalist development. There is an imbalance and anisometry. That's the law of capitalism. Tourism is an obvious and classic example of unequal growth. This draft law on the thematic tourism and its specific forms provides for the government to legislate every claim on business groups. The sea, the airspace, the countryside, the mountains, the rivers, the lakes, the gorges are not enough. They also want Churches, monasteries, sport, archaeological sites, culture, education, health sources, to become new areas of their profitability. In particular, the definition of the capacity of tourist destinations in Article 2, in practice, strengthens the arbitrary construction. It is the continuation of a policy in which restrictions on tourist development were gradually abolished, saturation was lifted, the short-term property rental was legislated. The cause of water shortages, especially in the islands, is not due - as some people claim - to climate change, but, among other things, to overestimate the capacity of tourism on the islands with great traffic, such as Santorini, Mykonos, Crete and others. In fact, they're charging people responsibility. They say to farmers, but also to residents in general, to consume smaller quantities of water for domestic use, they impose fines on those who use even a dram of water, on those who use water for cultivation, on the grounds of water shortages, and no recommendation exists in four and five-star hotels and golf. All in the altar of business development and profits of business groups! Within the framework of the common agricultural policy a large part of self-employed farmers have left the fields, while another is forced to work as an alternative to the large groups in order to survive. At the same time, large tourist groups are mainly working with capitalist agri-foodstuffs or companies that print their products. They choose certified products. Tourists are mainly promoted by large companies and not generally by some local producers. The large groups active in tourism with large hotel units have created their own production units and have their own areas. Here's who really wins this case. The jobs, which are to be created in the draft law, are mainly seasonal, mispaid, with intensified work, with no rights, cheap wages and allowances, intensification, circumvention of daily time, students who practice and are uninsured and paid with crumbs, while at the same time studying in conditions of degradation with many problems in the functioning of schools. The well-being of the citizens in the explanatory statement is therefore not about the workers and the self-employed in tourism, but about the employer and its profits. The Government argues that this draft law implements key strategies with a central aim of offering three hundred and sixty-five days a year, when the large majority cannot take a holiday one day. Internal tourism, according to data from the Institute of Tourism Research, has fallen from 16.2% in 2016 to 14.9% in 2017, demonstrating the state of the working people's family. The International Labour Office, with its data, records a 3.5% wage reduction in 2017 compared to 2016, records elastic forms of work five times over the other European Union countries. The same course is the reductions in pensions which have reached 50%, the tax burden which has deducted much of the people's income. The concessions of road axes, which the people have paid dearly, are allocated to the great capital and are paid back to go to their villages, with tolls everywhere, with the cost of moving upwards and depriving this need of much of our people. We are not talking about the cost of moving the islands, the mockery of the transport equivalent. The great travel cost and the price for a night that even one pays is forbidden to think about holidays in too many people. Really, who's the one who can do air tourism? Who can make sea tourism, yachting and other expensive sports? Who are they addressing? Obviously, they are addressed to the few. Medical tourism is, in our view, an essential aspect of the development of the health system with an incentive and a view to strengthening the business activity and profitability of the private and state sectors, basically exploiting sufficient needs, making it even more difficult for the people to have access to upgraded health services, since they will be offered for inappropriate remuneration to high-income tourists. The winners, after all, will be the big-time owners, the health business groups, the private insurance companies, but also a part of the already entrepreneured public sector. New couples with fertility problems that put their hand much deeper into the pocket in the merchandise sector that will be sold with tourist packages. The online register of medical tourism will include all health providers - public and private - interconnected with the Ministry of Tourism and will be used to attract customers. Occupational hospitals shall be established by the State at the various medical treatment units to support business operation, for which nothing shall be specified, if, i.e. the services they provide will be free of charge. And, of course, it won't be free. They will pay and trade even more with the cure, from which they are now excluded from those who need it, especially pensioners. A large part of the country’s thermal sources and other state tourist infrastructure remained untapped for years. Now they are being privatised through their assignment to the ICT in order to get to the service of capitalist profits, attracting customers - patients from other states. At the time when couples are attracted from other countries to medically assisted reproductions in order to further increase the profitability of the respective business groups, many couples who need such services can either not make use of them, or are forced to pay large sums for examinations, medicines and interventions due to the rapid reduction in popular income and cuts in the benefits of the EEAS. In our view, today there are the possibilities and conditions - scientific, technological - the appropriate infrastructure, the qualified staff, so that they can provide adequate cover for doctors in all the health needs of the population in urban centres, in the region, in mountain areas or in the islands of the country, in areas where people are moved for leisure, tourism, work throughout the year. In the regulations on maritime tourism, cruise, yachting, sea and coastal recreational activities, divestment tourism, the framework for the development of business activities aimed at high incomes is established. The tourist offices release them completely, break any barriers, beat the professional rights of the tours. The transport project on the road transport of tourists is also granted to large tourist enterprises, to large tourist agencies, with the provision of so-called far-reaching transport, as if we did not know that this was the price of the package. So who will benefit from this story? Business groups also use transport to their advantage and to the detriment of self-employed transport workers, such as taxis. The granting of public and protected bays, tourist ports, to business groups, forms the conditions necessary for the further speculative use of any coastal infrastructure and at the same time for banning access to the people. In education tourism, as the bill describes it, comes to legalise the unlimited employment conditions of trainees and not just the combination of holidays with educational activities. Business groups have developed a very good network, and they also impose it on the draft law, which says that during the year tourist training programmes, retraining programmes, professional and tourist training courses will be exploited by business groups with exemption from any obstacles to the activities of education, training and especially employment, in terms of apprenticeship. And all of this package is presented as 'educational tourism'. The government and other parties claim that tourism creates jobs. They do not, however, say what positions they create and whether workers can live decently. Tourism is the pilot of major reversals in industrial relations, at the fixed daily working time. It is the Achtzioglu amendment that triggers the Brutsi Act, the 'Brutsi Killer', as SYRIZA called it when it was voted on, which abolishes collective bargaining for the lowest wage. This will be decided by the Minister of Labour at the suggestion of industrialists, hoteliers, traders and bankers. Ladies and gentlemen, the Communist Party of Greece has testified to the working class and to the people as a whole our radically different view of holidays, recreation, rest and tourism. Tourism and holidays in the context of capitalism are a luxurious commodity and not a social right. The JRC is not against tourism economic activity. However, it must first of all ensure that the needs of the people are met on holidays and recreation, so that all sectors of the economy and regions are developed in harmony. This is why the JRC's fundamental position is the development of both domestic and external tourism, so that the popular strata can be accessed and acquainted with the people of other countries, their history, their culture. Financial, organisational and cultural requirements to meet this need for the majority of the people can only arise in the conditions of social ownership, production facilities and infrastructure, central planning, operation, education and health care as exclusively public and free of charge social services. It requires, of course, the abolition of capitalist ownership in the means of production. This is the only way to ensure free time and organised social tourism. First and foremost, in order to make available to the people and the working class all this huge wealth of infrastructure, spaces and buildings is their socialisation. On this basis, labour power will be able to distribute productive resources at central and regional level by creating a network of hotel facilities, camps, accommodation, resorts, recreational areas, entertainment and culture centres across Greece. It will be able to design by protecting the environment, by using land balanced for productive needs, for energy, for nutritional people's needs. In conditions of popular authority, it will be free to enter for workers, the unemployed, the young people and people with special needs in museums, archaeological sites, organized plaques, cultural activities, in health sources, in baths, to develop cultural, cultural excursions from schools to cover the costs of the state. It will be possible to develop all necessary infrastructures, renovate equipment and buildings and develop them with modern techniques, with full safety and environmental protection. In the context of the central planning, the waste of productive resources will really be stopped and the use of what the social needs really require will be achieved. In capitalism, the development of tourism for profit cannot cover all these objectives. We believe that the workers and micro-enterprises in the sector have an objective interest in meeting the JRC, in strengthening their proposal for the people's alliance, for the working people's power, a proposal requiring a conflict with the European Union, with the monopolies, so that all the wealth of the country can enter the service of the people. In this society tourism will have a perceptible place as a people's right to rest and recreation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Konstantinos Katsikis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislative initiative of the Ministry of Tourism, which is actively reflected in the draft law under discussion, is a necessary reform, necessary for the Greek tourism market, in order to make it more modern and more attractive to the global tourist map. Achieving sustainable development, tourist development, with a multiplier effect on society and the economy, should be the core of the country's national tourism policy. The deposit of this integrated institutional framework, which re-forms and forms the organisation and functioning of professional activities in thematic tourism, extends the horizons to the country's tourism development. The active involvement of representatives of operators in public consultation, the adoption of all their requests and their incorporation into the draft law have made the provisions of modern, functional and harmonized to tourist reality. In both parts of the draft law, the framework for the development of the thematic tourism is clearly proposed, with a view to extending the specific forms of tourism. The dynamic promotion of new forms of tourism will ensure a balanced distribution of tourists throughout the country and throughout the year. The provision of certified services in the sector, for example, rural tourism, will offer protection, combined with activities related to agricultural production, highlighting the natural and man-made rural landscape. Ecotourism will highlight areas of ecological interest and further promote their recognised value. The development of tours and hiking will highlight the specific features of the countryside and further raise awareness among citizens of its protection. The geography of our country, caves, gorges, active volcanoes, fossil forests, can afford visitors authentic high-level and quality travel experiences. His combination with another important thematic tourism, the cultural one, will launch the promotion of Greek culture, highlighting him in the country's highest tourist product. The archaeological monuments, cultural events, visits and tours, of course, would be essential to the development of this sector at a global level. Another element that will differentiate Greek tourism and make it separate worldwide is the emergence and preservation of the religious and adorable elements of our country. This action will contribute to the entry and development of journeys of religious interest. The pilgrimage tours that will be carried out with motivation, among other things, the pilgrimage and the expression of adoring faith, will promote and promote the recognition and visitability of our sacred monuments. The richness of our country's health sources can undoubtedly develop another form of thematic tourism with great prospects, such as health tourism. The important advantages that our country has, such as the high level of health and well-being services, in relation to economicly competitive costs, can bring Greece to a top destination, contributing to the expansion of the tourist season and strengthening investment in new sectors. We also pointed out in the committee's debate the need to modernise the update of tourist education in order to remove the risk of adverse effects from its potential shortage and, at the same time, to ensure the provision of quality, tourist services. With this in mind, the promotion of individual arrangements concerning the educational structures of the Ministry of Tourism implements its policy on the radical upgrading and modernisation of public tourism education. Improving the functioning of the domestic tourism market is under the proposed arrangements introduced by this draft law to modernise the existing institutional framework and improve the efficiency of the administrative tourism services. Flexible provisions and outdated regulations that were a brake on the tourist business are simplified, ensuring a business-friendly model for investment. The totality of the provisions shall be consolidated and updated, making the licensing flexible, but at the same time the control of tourist enterprises more flexible. Modern practice has long been overtaken by tourist agencies, as described in Article 1 of Law No 393/1976. The speed of developments in the tourism sector has led the administration to go hand in hand with the reality of the market by limiting its ability to carry out controls, thereby leading to the loss of public revenue. The resolution of the chronic functional problems of tourist agencies through the proposed legislation makes them reliable now and equivalent interlocutors of large travel agencies abroad, substantially upgrading the quality of the services offered in our country. The island diversity has highlighted the need to place marinas and tourist ports. The yet daunty bureaucratic system of placement and environmental licensing was a deterrent to the investment interest of Greek and foreign entrepreneurs. Today, the individual articles propose a simplified and flexible legislative framework, free of ambiguities, repetitions and contradictions, friendly and subsidiary to every investment effort. However, the entire reform effort of the Ministry of Tourism will become incomplete if it is not supported by modern administrative, operational and effective, supportive and not prosecuting investments, with exploitation, but also by strengthening their staffing potential. Labour security, support for dignity, objectivity and transparency in service staff will strengthen their credibility and proper functioning. The proposed legislative reform is absolutely necessary if we are to pursue an attractive, modern, flexible, flexible tourism market in support of every development effort, providing opportunities to increase employment and, of course, of course, of the state's revenues. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister has pointed out, we are the first government to implement a national strategy and national regional tourism planning in four years' time, ensuring an unprecedented success in tourism development, with many benefits spread across all regions and all local communities. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Since 2015, we have reintroduced Greece on the global tourist map, three hundred sixty-five days a year, focusing on sustainable tourist development and genuine holiday experiences. Through coordinated efforts by the Ministry of Tourism, our country won for the first time a position of strength and influence in the global tourism decision-making centres, participating as a member of the Executive Board of the World Tourism Organization, while we took over the vice-chairmanship, colleagues, in the Tourism Committee of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, for the sake of the OECD, for the year 2019. Since 2014 and the twenty-four million tourists, we have now come to have an increase of 35% to nine additional million visitors, recording a continuous historical record of revenues and, more generally, all tourist sizes. This year in 2018 is the best year in the history of Greek tourism with a double-digit increase in arrivals. The arrivals are estimated to close near the thirty - three million tourists. Tourist revenues in the first nine months of this year exceeded 14 billion euros, and about 30,000 extra jobs were created. A performance that has been the highest in the last eighteen years - that is, from 2001 until now - and let us not forget that the recent decision to extend the sectoral collective agreement for hotel workers covers over one hundred and fourteen thousand workers and is the largest in force sectoral collective agreement. This draft law, which we Independent Greeks are voting for, is a natural continuation of all these achievements recorded in recent years. These achievements are being recorded, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years with the aim of establishing key and necessary reforms, which are expected to strengthen the existing development dimension, the tourist development dimension in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u173	The special speaker from the river Mr. Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion should be of key importance for the development of the country, especially after the crisis. Greece is undoubtedly a tourist country, but, unfortunately, it has rested for years on the "sun and sea", as well as on the "masking summer". In recent years, we have also been favoured by geopolitical developments in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean, which has been favouring inertia, immobilisation in the firing of habits. The lack of essential, long-term and sustainable planning, as well as the organisation of development, characterizes our tourist model. Unfortunately, the protection of the environment, landscaping, the carrying capacity was and in many cases unknown conditions remain. It is almost naive, however, to believe that we can exist on these terms in an international tourist market characterised by intense competition, with travellers and demanding, in an international market where modern technologies play a crucial role in the choices of travellers and in promoting tourist products worldwide. Today, after the almost ten-year crisis, it is more than ever necessary to draw up a national strategy for Greek tourism, because the promotion, the branding or the promotion we insist solely on to date presupposes the existence of strategic planning. There they should be pressed in order to serve as a tool the objectives of this plan. Of course, we must finally realize that a real indicator of success is not the number of arrivals, but the economic impact of the stay of our visitors. On the other hand, a national strategy for tourism must be a product of broad political and social consensus, and this is necessary in order to ensure the long-term implementation of its objectives, namely to cover the essential structural deficits in terms of infrastructure, service quality, institutional framework, product diversification, synergies with other economic activities, etc. But what are the conditions for this? The trends in the world market demand differentiated products with strong identity and character and above all unique experiences. This differentiation of our tourism product is not achieved by depositing bills or establishing special forms of tourism without a substantial impact on the services offered. It requires the registration of comparative advantages and the capacity of each region, the action to remove any obstacles - institutional framework, infrastructure, etc. - and provide incentives for the development of specific forms of tourism. In addition, its implementation requires planning and implementation not only at regional and local level, but also at the organic interconnection of tourism with the other areas crucial for the country's development progress, such as the environment, agriculture and rural development, fisheries, culture, transport, renewable energy. Sustainable tourist development of the country requires the design of a national strategy that combines, coordinates and promotes synergies with the inter-feeding sectors of the economy. We have repeatedly stressed, for example, that the synergy of tourism and agriculture is a key objective of the national tourism strategy, offering added value to both sectors. A new organic-type interconnection of the primary sector with the tertiary for self-evident reasons is now required. We have only started to standardize and certify our products in recent years, namely make them branded and identified. After all, there are so many foreigners in the country who, if they consumed Greek products, may not even have been able to export many of them. They must understand that both our producers and our hotel owners are mutually advantageous to them to get to know foreign visitors with Greek flavors and drinks, because that is exactly what gives the tourist product uniqueness and that differentiates it from the respective experience that a visitor will have in another country in a family hotel. In addition, there must be special attention to our cultural heritage and its interconnection with tourism, since it is one of the strongest weapons of our tourist product, giving it a uniqueness. Unfortunately, however, it seems that the two sectors are characterised by competition. Anachronistic perceptions and bureaucracy prevent the development of a dynamic tourist benefit relationship that could even lead to a new form of phillinism. Equally critical of the quality of tourist infrastructure is the quality of the services provided, which, of course, has as its core the human potential, which is also the basic resource, as well as the competitive advantage of Greek tourism and indeed investment in the human factor is one of the most important things we have to do if we want to upgrade our tourism product. This, of course, involves the upgrading of tourism education and training, the matching of study programmes with the objectives of the national strategy for tourism, support for tourist enterprises for the implementation of a specific and structured human resources policy and of course the awareness of local communities for the cultivation of tourist awareness. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the bill and its specific articles. The draft legislation we are discussing is primarily aimed at regulating the development, organisation and supervision of activities and entrepreneurship in the thematic tourism sector by means of the provisions of Part One. We would expect more in the chapter of thematic tourism. It is only 1/3 of the provisions and focuses mainly on definitions and, in particular, on implementation in the extreme future, given the numerous joint ministerial decisions or ministerial decisions to be adopted, without, of course, defining a time horizon in any of these loose ends. Of course, there are too many ambiguities that need to be clarified. I fear, however, because we have experienced it in the extreme past, but also in the recent one, that usually a accumulation of so many loose ends actually refers to the issue that we are going to resolve on the bells. That is why I think we should put in place a time horizon for these decisions to be adopted. It is well known to those who are systematically involved in tourism that the issue of definitions of tourism is not the subject of legislation. It is a matter that is handled by science and is therefore sought in the relevant literature. Moreover, the number and content of the thematic forms of tourism is changing rapidly according to the conditions - social, economic and environmental - but also with the new needs and attitudes of modern societies. In this context, we would expect a number of definitions to be more precise and, of course, we believe that the object of an appropriate bill on the thematic forms of tourism would be to regulate legal relations, that is, the rights and obligations of those involved in it, particularly with a view to protecting the consumer. The remaining 2/3 of the draft law covers the entire range of responsibilities of the Ministry of Tourism and attempts to resolve issues that have been accumulated over the last few years. Regarding the arrangements which in one way or another relate to the EOT, in recent years a great deal has been differentiated in relation to the redefinition of the role of the EOT, but also in terms of relations between the EOT and the Ministry of Tourism. That is why we think it would be advisable to have an overall approach that rationalises the roles and relations between the EOT and the Ministry. This is an issue that requires an integrated approach and a design and, of course, an expanded consultation with regard to the demands of today's reality. This means that it could and should be the only issue of integrated legislative intervention. Let us not forget that the Hellenic Tourism Organization has always been a tool that periodically did an excellent job, effectively taking away the tourism policy of the country, mainly through promotion and support, and in its golden times, and with the hotel infrastructure. Today that we need to redefined what tourism we want and how we will achieve it, we need a national tourism policy plan and we need to see the tools at our disposal, so the EOT as a whole. I will not go into detail the articles of the draft EOT, because from the outset I disagree with the fragmentary logic in which this issue is dealt with. I will, however, stand by Article 56 of the EOT staff selection procedure, which describes the external personnel selection procedures of the EOT. The procedures for selecting on-the-spot staff shall also be described in accordance with the operational needs of each service. I note that there is nowhere in the process for the selection of personnel to cover the office of external ECOT services, while the three-member evaluation committee is designated by the Secretary-General and one by the Minister. I do not question the good intentions, but the institutional procedures must be defined and not relied on in good intentions. Since, in the past, this body - and in particular the foreign seekers - has been hit by several shadows and sins, it would be desirable to reconstruct this regulation carefully and to recast it in order to ensure that there is an elementary guarantee of sovereignty, as is, of course, in the following article, Article 57, on transfers, secondments, as described by the transfer procedures, posting of officials to external services. In conclusion, I would like to go back to one issue - Minister, it is not here, of course - which does not concern so much the provisions of the bill, but it has more to do with tourism, air transport and relations with other countries and which I cannot put it, since the tourism bills, of course, are not too often in Parliament. I have already asked the Minister in writing about our air connection with Taivan, this small island country of South-East Asia. It is in the first 20th century of countries based on its trade balance, with its GDP being in the 19th largest world on the basis of purchasing power and its employees having a higher income than the respective citizens of countries such as North Korea, Japan, France or the United Kingdom. We therefore have every reason to establish closer relations with this small island nation and the unjust trade and tourism relations between Athens and Taipei to come out of obscurity. Because I recall that they received a huge blow in the summer of 2016, when with due regard for the Greek state mechanism eighteen direct "charter" flights of Taiwan's largest "China Airlines" airline to Athens, for the period June-October 2016, forced the company to compensate its unserved customers. I think that from such a route between Athens and Taipei, our country could gain a great deal of profits in key sectors, such as tourism - but not only - culture, agri-food sector, high technology, research, etc. Thank you and I will be placed in my dentistry in relation to some of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u175	Mr Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I too wish as much as those who celebrate many years. I do not hide from you that my expectations regarding this draft law were far greater. Apart from the fact that the thematic tourism had never been regulated as a whole - something that should have been done already - all the stakeholders were asking for some necessary interventions and awaiting legislative, improvement interventions, as at least they had informed me at meetings that I did with them as a sector tourism manager for the Union of Centres. But the truth is that in the end with the provisions that have been presented to us, there is a relative disappointment on my part. Starting up my comment I would like to refer to the more general problems that tourism faces in our country - because these are the important issues for me - and I shall refer in detail to some aspects of the draft law. I begin with the extremely high tax burden on the Greek tourist product, which is a very important blocking factor, especially for the weakest sectors, burdening not only the competitiveness and incentives for the business, but even the workers' available income. For example, and according to SETE figures of 1-1-2017, between the six competitive markets of the Mediterranean, namely Greece, Cyprus, Turkey, Italy, Spain and Croatia, while Cyprus has all positive, our country has all the negative, i.e. the worst indicators per 100 euros collected at hotels. I will be specific: it has the lowest fees for staff, just EUR 17.1, with Cyprus being at EUR 26.1. It has the highest non-wage cost of EUR 16.8, with Cyprus being at EUR 7.8. It has the highest VAT and other charges at EUR 16.6, with Cyprus being at EUR 8.3 and thus having the lowest remaining amount, i.e. profits before tax at EUR 20.5 that will be taxed at a rate of 29%. It seems clear that companies are operating and contributing almost exclusively to the state and not to reward workers and entrepreneurs, as a result of reduced incentives for business, labour and a wide range of injustices in general. If in Greece, for example, the tax rates applied in Cyprus, the employees' income available would be higher by 50%. You understand how important these figures are for our economy and for our tourism by extension, because both in Greece and Cyprus - apologise - they live Greeks and Cyprus had memos. So it is important to give us a reply in general - not only by the Minister, of course, why is it not about the Ministry of Tourism, about the economy and all the ministries of the Government - why are we really only in Greece wrong? I continue with the systematic but unjustified report from the Ministry to the great but clear increase in tourist flows. I also referred to the committee. While the competitive countries in the region are recovering by reducing their problems, we are resuming and sufficient to simply count the entrances - positive is that, because it is a positive figure, but we should also see the quality criteria behind it - without targeting the qualitative upgrading, which also means tourists of higher incomes. An example is the delay in the construction of a pier in Piraeus for the portrayal of very large cruise ships that normally carry such categories of tourists. The second example is the unexplained inertia of attracting tourists from specific countries, such as Russia, which have shown in the past that they have high incomes and spend a lot on them. With LEVEL figures, at least, arrivals until October and for the Russians were only 596 000, i.e. in the 12th place, with only 2% of our tourism, with the feature that the top -5 of their destinations in the Mediterranean are the competitive countries I mentioned above, with us being their eleventh option, and despite the fact that the dedicated cultural year of Russia - Greece - took precedence for 2016 and especially the dedicated year of tourism in Greece - Russia 2017-2018, for which, apparently, the responsible ones did not achieve the expected results. One example of our tourism - and I have referred to the committee as well - is the loss of Rallie Acropolis, perhaps of the most flagrant sport event in the world over time. And I'm talking about the WRC, and not about the ERC that projected our country around the globe. It will not take place in 2019, as the Federation of Motor Sports in Greece informed us, because in addition, as you claim, no paradox has been paid and no action has been taken on its part. I will agree with the Minister on many issues which are not 100% competence - they may not be the responsibility of the Ministry of Tourism at all - but they may be co-responsibility or competence of other ministries. It may not be - as you say - in your own competence, but when we talk about thematic tourism, we should look for sources of attraction of tourists and such events as Rali Acropolis or even Formula -1, where we have actually filed an official file on our country's candidacy, enter the FIA calendar and have a circuit in Greece. It would be a great opportunity, as they are events of global scope and every tourist - spectator who goes to watch such a Formula - 1 cost a minimum of 2 000 to 3 000 euros on his visit. So such events are purely thematic tourism and should be very high on your own list to discuss with the Ministers responsible. I'm now continuing with the draft law. It is indeed a quite great cove, since it includes ten sections with seventy-seven articles in total. It is also concerned with the thematic tourism of many forms and with a number of other issues, from tourism education and tourist ports to the organogram of EOT and the Ministry of Tourism. However, it is clear that it includes many scattered arrangements with the main issues to be referred to in the future by ministerial decisions, such as Articles 5, 7, 8, 10, 21, 23, 24 and 34. It is also limited, in not so aptly defined definitions, to some parts of conceptuality, extending to many secondary topics, remaining incomplete, since only a small percentage of the total required arrangements are introduced automatically, as I will show below. It certainly does not formulate a national strategy for tourism or formulate policies for sustainable and very high value-added tourism. It seems that it will be delayed immediately to have a positive impact on the sizes of tourism in general. At least that's our point of view. We are in discussion and at any time you want, we can develop it more. This also comes from your own words, Minister. At the third meeting of the committee, you said, for example, that "Our legislation regulates the possibility of all these tourists coming and combining these holiday benefits, so all the rest are matters which will be regulated, when and when they come from the Ministry of Labour". A good-looking man who listens to us at the moment could understand that we are currently bringing about half and all at some point will be regulated either by us or by any other ministry that is his responsibility. Of course, every ministry is involved in the home. That's clear, and we understand that. But after three and a half years of waiting and delay, we expect all these relevant issues from all the ministries concerned to have been launched. However, we see that we will wait another time and years for other ministries to be involved, so that we can complete this whole process of thematic tourism process. Minister, you also said that this was a legislative result of wide-ranging consultation with all the institutions, but also with the fourteen co-legislative ministries, in order to draw up the needs, regulations and interventions. In the course of the consultations, therefore, all procedures should be run by the other ministries as well as by their own side. On the contrary, only for educational tourism is there something ready to come next week, as we have been informed. It seems there is no further coordination, and possibly, as I said before, we must wait another three and a half years, so that one of the other thirteen ministries can present to Parliament its own share of regulation and go by saying. I repeat that it is not your responsibility alone. You, Minister, do your best. It is good - I say it to hear it - and the other ministries contribute at the same time to this whole effort. There is no case in this case, at least in our view, and so-called 'rules', such as transfers and secondments of EOT officials under Article 57 abroad, which is currently three years old and with Presidential Decree 343/2001, is allowed to extend these for another three years, and can now be extended for six years, that is, a total of nine years abroad. Without showing that insulting to anyone, I think that even teachers in Greek schools in Germany are not that long. Perhaps we should see how this could be regulated in a more reasonable context. You'll answer me. I can't hear you now, so I can make a stand. And I do not want to make a stand with you right now, so that we can continue and complete the process. Another problematic point is the overlap of the Ministry of Tourism with the State Secretary of Sports in relation to the so-called "sport tourism" of Article 6. I'll be specific. As you mentioned, Minister, these activities clearly concern the Ministry of Tourism. They have nothing to do with the General Secretariat of Sports, because the General Secretariat of Sports has professional sport. We're talking about people who do sports leisure tourism. It's not about athletes. It's about tourists. I will agree with you on what you said. But that explains why the draft law was not signed with the Deputy Minister of Sports, but only with the Minister of Culture and Sport. As you know, the General Secretariat of Sports does not only have professional sport. Maybe he's more of an amateur sport. However, it clearly has sporting tourism. And I am not saying this, but I am tabling in the Minutes the relevant document of the Secretary-General of Sports, Mr.July, as of 31 August 2017, with the circular on the framework for the operation of sports tourism of the General Secretariat of Sports. That's where things get clearer. There is a clear reference not to professionals but to tourists travelling in the context of their free time, in other words holidays, as stated explicitly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u177	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u178	If I have lost something or something, we fix it and I have no problem listening to your position. I would like to refer to more articles, but I see that time is on the way to the end. One last thing and maybe very important. Generally on the issue of global tourism, and therefore also medical tourism, which is the responsibility of the EOT, I would like to put a question to the attention of myself, particularly on a matter. And I am thinking about it, because we are neither negative nor positive, and I would like everyone in this Chamber to think about whether that is a matter of discussion. Perhaps some terms and rules should be laid down for the advertising of health services abroad. According to the National Bioethics Commission, some medical operations may be legal in our country, but are illegal or discouraged in the country of origin of tourists, such as parentality or gender-change interventions. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Mr President, I will not be too late. I'm just about finishing up and I'm not going to get a second. Keep the time from dentistry. The 'industrial' of medical tourism - with introductorys, without anything to mention - must be included in the Ministry's objectives, because it is estimated at several dozen billion dollars worldwide. Thinking is this: may we advertise in other countries the possibility of illegal interventions there? I'm saying it clearly on morals. It's a reflection. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve the extension of the tourist season, we very clearly agree that the necessary condition is to highlight all the comparative advantages that Greece has and the creation of specific and targeted tourist products. However, the vague reference to certain activities for which no framework of operation is foreseen and the lack of preparation by other ministries will in practice create huge issues and side effects. So it's good for you, Minister, but we can force as much as we can the other ministries to contribute to this effort without obstructions so that we can complete this plan and not delay any further. For these reasons, as I said before, we will take a neutral stand. Neither will we vote against nor will we vote for it. We will state'residents' for this draft law in principle and on the whole. We will be placed - our parliamentary representative will also be placed - in detail for each article. All I would like to point out is the amendments. With the exception of Amendment No 1323 and a specific number of No 9, which concerns the regulations on fishing and which we shall vote for, we shall be in the other three amendments and will be placed in detail during the vote. Thank you very much and thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. The circle of interventions by the rapporteurs and special speakers has been completed. Before entering the speakers on the list, I will give the floor to the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Bolaris. Mr Bolaris, allow me to make a statement and I shall immediately give you the floor to support an amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-two students and students and two fellow professors from the 4th Drama High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Bollaris, you have the floor for Amendment No 1829.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment decides to extend the payment of retroactive payments to officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is known that about a month ago, on 8-11-2018, Law 4575 passed the single refund of money corresponding to cuts in the remuneration of certain categories of staff imposed in the context of the implementation of the second Memorandum. They were executives of the Armed Forces, ICP members, Security Bodies, etc. For some of these categories of Law 4575 there were judicial decisions that judged the unconstitutionality of benefits. Some of them didn't exist. The return of the retrospectives also concerned pensioners. At present, for reasons of equal treatment and despite the lack of a judicial decision obliging the Government to make such a move, the reimbursement of retroactively to the special salaries of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is extended. In other words, diplomatic staff, scientific staff of the special legal service, expert and commercial and economic affairs sector. This regulation is appropriate because there is a close relationship either at wage or at the level of a similar employment subject, and it is therefore fair to extend it. As the Prime Minister pointed out, this is a political decision aimed at restoring precedented injustices and with this amendment it extends to the branches of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which I mentioned. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Bolaris. We are entering the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u183	What do you want, Mr. Carras?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u184	On the Rules of Procedure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u185	What exactly is going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u186	I very briefly read the amendment proposed by Mr Bollaris concerning a number of issues. One paragraph of the entire amendment is the matter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So is it recommended for the whole of the amendment or just for a paragraph? Will we finally comply with the Rules of Procedure, Mr President? Who will ultimately recommend the amendment? Are we gonna break it into pieces? That's my question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u187	I can answer that. Mr. Bollaris referred to the first part. The second part of the amendment will be Mrs Papanatsiou, because it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u188	Mrs. Papanatsiu is coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u189	Would you like to add something, Mr. Bolaris? I saw you guys had a nod on me. I do not know whether the Bureau has given such an explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u190	That's exactly her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u191	Mr. Carras, that's the answer. We'll be waiting anyway for Mrs. Papanatsiu.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u192	Forgive me, off-registration.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u193	It is not a matter of forgiveness or no forgiveness. You said your question and answered. Mrs Katsavria - Siropoulou from SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Mr Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the spectacular increase in tourist traffic to our country is undeniable. For 2018, more than thirty million visitors, an increase of more than 35% compared to 2014. Impressive is the participation of tourism in GDP formation, which reaches almost 20%, but also in employment with around 25%. This has resulted in the support of the economy, budgets, employment and incomes in the most critical phase of our country and in our attempt to get out of the Memorandum Programmes and the Committee. The geopolitical upheavals in the wider region have created favourable conditions for this development, but we must recognise that active foreign policy, economic diplomacy and the many transnational agreements concluded by our country have played an important role. However, a decisive role was played by the effort made by the Ministry of Tourism with the peak of the promotion of Greece as an attractive tourist destination. We must also congratulate the Minister. In the course of the country towards fair growth it is necessary to capitalise the achievements of the tourist economy. This will enable us, on the one hand, to give it characteristics of sustainability and euphoria and, on the other, to maximise the possibilities for further tourist development. This is precisely what is being attempted by this draft law. I think that the right time comes as a mature fruit of our four-year experience, of the new needs that have arisen and of the fertile reflection that has developed within the people of Greek tourism. This is a holistic approach that surpasses chronic pathogens that have cut the wings into many business and development initiatives. It takes into account the international experience, new trends, tourist currents and places the foundations for exploiting the many comparative advantages that each corner of Greece has. The strategic objective for tourism of three hundred and sixty-five days a year is transformed into a realistic and feasible perspective through the definition of the framework for thematic tourism and specific forms of tourism. Let me refer to Articles 20 and 22, stressing the correct approach of the draft law on health tourism and its specific form, health and heating tourism. Such is, for example, the case of the Smokov and Drastas baths - Caicas of the Carditsa Prefecture. They are baths with valuable and usable facilities which can operate with quality services throughout the year, mobilise investment initiatives and contribute to the development of individual sectors of the local economy in the region. This also comes with the provision of Article 22 for the creation of a doctorate providing first aid and counselling services or medical health tourism as a distinct structure, which will be recognised as a private primary health care facility. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that, for the first time, a clear institutional framework is being introduced that governs tourism, strengthens its existing potential and actually opens up local and regional development opportunities. Once again, as an example of Thessaly and my special homeland, Karditsa, the main feature of which is agri-food activity, I would like to stress that if the attractive environment is combined with the primary sector, high quality human capital, culture, tastes, as well as the history that spreads and remains untapped and there are the necessary synergies, our mountain and lowland villages, with small investments, can multiply visitability, extend the tourist season and significantly enhance the income of the inhabitants. Ladies and gentlemen, the new tourist environment that has been created and the good prospects of the horizon also require that the administrative tourism services responsible for licensing, supervision and control be modernised and improved. They also require the modernisation and updating of the overall framework for tourism education. It is important that the relevant arrangements provided for in Articles 39 to 59 of the draft law are a product of processing by workers themselves to the services of the Ministry of Tourism and its supervised bodies. Greece is a blessed place with hospitable people. The development of tourism with an anthropocentric character, the synergy between public and private operators, the utilization of all the tools of modern technology, can be the backbone for our country to secure a more important place among other world tourist destinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u195	Mrs Antoniou has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating in plenary the bill of the Ministry of Tourism, which, according to its title, is supposed to strengthen the thematic tourism, modernise tourist education and support tourist entrepreneurship. And I say'supposed', because the rapporteur himself told you that 'we are coming after four years, after we have achieved things in the economy, to talk about tourism'. That's what he said starting his introduction. I am not going to tell you what you have achieved in four years, but the international organisations and the recent OECD report yesterday. So, ladies and gentlemen, with yesterday's OECD report, in the three-year period 2015-2017, the increase in taxes in Greece was the largest in the world, almost twice as high as in the second country that was Mexico. In the last four years Greece has recorded many protagonists, many of them. He was a champion of government expenditure cuts for 2015-2016 as a percentage of GDP. They were reduced more than any other country. New debt record in Greece for this year. I'm not saying it. According to the European Commission's report on Greece in July 2018, the general government's debt was estimated for 2018 at 188,6 % of GDP, while the preliminary draft budget will reach 183 % of GDP, i.e. EUR 335 billion. And after four years, you come and say that you will deal with thematic tourism, with alternative tourism, etc. In other words, with this country's heavy industry, tourism, you remembered to be concerned now that your term of office expires. This alone is the quintuosity of your idealism, namely taxes, taxes and election taxes, let us play with our heavy industry. After four years of governance, one would expect that you would finally bring a bill with substantial arrangements for the development of alternative forms of tourism, which would provide solutions to the various problems and create an integrated institutional framework for the vitality of the national tourism economy. Instead, we find that the Ministry of Tourism in this bill, unfortunately, confines itself to listing simple definitions of specific forms of tourism, without anything essential, with the exception of some provisions on sports and conference tourism. There too, however, any arrangements are considered incomplete, fragmented and insufficient to give the necessary development impetus to thematic tourism. I wonder, Minister. Did it take you four years to list definitions that the most ignorant in domestic and international literature finds? Not only is there a new substantial measure being introduced, but you cannot even make use of the legislative framework that you have found ready from our own government. A characteristic example of health tourism, one of the world's most growing sectors of tourism, at a growth rate close to 20% a year and with revenues exceeding the world's 20 billion dollars. The institutional framework for health tourism has therefore been ready since 2014. What have you been doing four years for health tourism? Absolutely nothing! Neither have you advanced the certification procedure for medical benefits, nor the prescribed register, nor, of course, the procedure for granting the distinguishing mark of medical tourism. Four years, then, without having done anything and without any excuse, you come and change the institutional framework and a new register is being created, with a keeper of the EEA, instead of the Ministry of Tourism. Your inertia and legislative relics deprive our country of significant resources that could result from medical tourism. Time is money. Unfortunately, however, for the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence, our country is always losing to both of us, both in time and in money. So I now come to the provisions concerning tourism education and higher schools of tourism, which are known as ASEAN. And while there are some fragmentary positive provisions here, such as integration into the educational programme for disability and the accessibility of disabled people to tourist enterprises, they are not in themselves enough. There is no provision at all for the real problems of these schools. No provision for their upgrading, modernization of curriculum programs, for the creation of English-speaking departments, which could attract foreign students with tuition fees, for the development of their facilities and infrastructure, as well as no care to enable students to continue their studies in postgraduate courses. As we speak of tourism, I would like to make a special reference to the region of Kastoria, in which I am elected, in western Macedonia, to an area with innumerable comparative advantages, which unfortunately remains an untapped treasure of our country's tourism. It is an area with unparalleled natural beauty, with more than seventy Byzantine and post-Byzantine churches, with historical, Byzantine monuments, with prehistoric settlements that do not exist in the country as such and many other modern hotel infrastructures, as well as the ski resort in Vicci, which remains unexplored. There is, but you haven't touched there at all. In other words, it is an area with enormous potential for tourist development, which remains completely untapped by you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam Minister, you are talking about developing thematic tourism for three hundred and sixty-five days a year. I ask you directly: What have you done for four years when you are a Minister to develop tourism, for example in Kastoria, in my area? Tell me a development measure brought by your government for the tourist use of the area. You know, I read the definitions that you give of special forms of tourism and I cannot find one that Castoria would be unable to support, such as rural tourism, sport tourism, cultural tourism, religious tourism, conference tourism, gastronomy tourism, rural tourism and the list is not perfect. So what is your work, Minister? What your contribution to the development of thematic tourism, when in a town that literally combines everything, which can support any alternative form of tourism, you have done nothing. And to return to the issue of tourism education, how will you develop thematic tourism if we do not invest in education and the specialization of people who will deal with thematic tourism? I have submitted to you a proposal for the creation of a school of tourist professions in my area of Kastoria, which I think is going to be found in those paper destruction machines.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u197	Mrs. Antonio, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u198	I shall conclude, Mr President. Madam Minister, words and definitions are not enough to develop thematic tourism. They need acts and projects. And you, at least, in an area like Kastoria, which has all the advantages of becoming a attraction for three hundred and sixty-five days of tourism a year, you have nothing to show. In conclusion, I would like to stress that any positive, fragmentary arrangements of the bill are not enough by themselves to cover the absence of a strategic plan of SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence for the development of the thematic and not just tourism in the country. You have had four years to plan and invest in thematic tourism and deal with any problems and distortions in the tourism sector. Instead, you are investing, as far as I can see from today's amendment, in the casinos in the country. Definitions by themselves do not create the conditions for the development of the tourist product. A characteristic example is my area, which is empty, closed shops, leaving people because it has not invested a single euro in this area. It's a treasure that's been buried by your government, like the burial monument on the Kasta hill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u199	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u200	They're not going to Castoria for $35 million?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u201	Where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u202	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u203	Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u204	No, come on. Show at least one basic respect. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. I want to start my position on this bill by saying that tourism in all its forms is a priority area for us. That is why the 'Greece' project has a prominent position since it can, together with other sectors such as agricultural production, the agri-food sector in particular, of course, the processing and the economy that brings added value to our country, become a vehicle for the sustainable progress of the country. I think that a bill could really support the title of being a promotion of this sector that will also produce new income, and of course, employment, quality jobs, local benefit always with respect for the environment, the history and culture of the country. But is that a bill of this type? Only in the title, I'd say. Because while his articles refer to titles in all alternative forms of tourism, their content does not support such a policy. They are bricks and horns hampered more than a coherent plan for alternative tourism, for thematic tourism. Of course, the government has not avoided temptation and in the context of this bill it has brought photographic provisions. I am referring only to it, which provides for the way in which directors and directors are selected. Of course, the bill also includes regulations, but it solves individual issues that exist as a whole is not what we call a promotional tool for tourism, something that the place needs today. I therefore believe that, with our position, but also with the placement on the articles, we will give our own signal on all individual issues in order to move forward. However, the bill and many amendments are accompanied by a number of amendments to confirm what we have said many times, and not just us, that we are already in a protracted pre-election period. The bulk of the regulations and amendments is obviously in order to serve the government's need to reverse the unfavourable situation in which it is found. Of course, when these solutions and regulations are in a positive direction, fair and correct, we are placed in each and every one of them. However, those who are not and are either solutions which are at the expense of society, the economy, the workers or are dark, we and we will look back and put ourselves in a negative position and vote against. I must, of course, ask myself about the amendment tabled by the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, in relation to casinos and procedures that will be followed and'shared' by the amendment he has tabled. He came, testified and left, didn't stay for discussion, didn't answer our questions. If this amendment was tabled by any other Minister, any other government, it is like seeing from the seat back here the same or other SYRIZA ministers - ANEL screaming out that this is an amendment, which again serves dark interests and, possibly, also the result of a transaction. This is something that the Minister should have fun coming here, explaining why he did not take the amendment to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs or why he did not table it in the course of the procedure, which is also provided for in this bill, in order to call on interested parties and to answer and give their opinion on it and have time to see it. It is therefore a good question, and the Minister has to resolve this, and he has to explain. I have, of course, already seen the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs supporting part - he says - an amendment as if it were not in agreement with the others. But she did not have to support her, because from what I see she does not sign it, Mr President. He doesn't sign it, so he had no obligation to support that piece. Well, if I don't blame him, it seems he's being persecuted by some maliciousness. I have called it maliciousness "Cheli". Since he was a State Secretary to the PASOK Government, Mrs Katseli vetoed and did not take responsibility for Mr. Bollaris. Looks like now that he's back with SYRIZA, that's why he hasn't signed it. But basically we should support all of this because the Prime Minister is signing it as the Foreign Minister and therefore the rest should support it. I now come to our four amendments, which deal with specific topics which can be resolved and resolved on time issues either that have arisen in the recent crisis or which, due to the evolution of things, need to be regulated. For example, the residence fee, as the government had voted for by the majority of SYRIZA - ANEL, goes to state funds. We say that the end of the stay at hotels, in the accommodations should go to local government. We have tabled the amendment and we ask that it be adopted, that it be voted on by the majority in order to pass it. The second amendment concerns spongiform fishing vessels, because there has been a regulation on shellfish in 2018, recently, but it has not included them, it has excluded them, and that is why we are asking for it to be extended. In conclusion, I would like to say on an amendment concerning two issues. One is the introduction of an irresponsible special bank account for all businesses, for all professionals, farmers, producer groups and cooperatives, in order to be able to manage both revenue and expenditure in an unreasonable way, and to pay employees, public and social security funds without the breaking of auctions. The other amendment concerns an integrated proposal for a sustainable and definitive regulation of the hundred and twenty instalments to be paid to insurance funds, public authorities and municipalities so far. It's the solution for what's there. It is a viable and lasting solution without an expiry date. Why does he need to? But it says so in the amendment tabled by a fellow Member from SYRIZA. It makes an amendment and says "protect the first home or secondary from the auctions and extend until 28 February 2019", and in particular - it says - for the damaged houses in Zakynthos by the end of 2019. Why does this amendment need? And it really needs to be. Because mass auctions are ahead of the gates. It is said in the SYRIZA MEP's amendment - I do not have to say it - who was a Minister of Justice until a precedent. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the next speaker, let me make a statement. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, forty-two students and students and four teachers of their education sessions from the 4th Drama High School (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Michaelides has the floor from SYRIZA, and then the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Partnership will follow Mr. Loverdos. Here, Mr. Michaelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, let me not refer to the main subject of the draft legislation on the subject of tourism, but to the amendment we tabled with my colleague Mr Dimitrios Gaki, on the proclamation of Kassos and the Fishes as heroic islands. The initiative to table this amendment was taken in consultation with the municipal councils of Kasos and the Fishes, which have applied for the Ministry of the Interior with decisions to classify these two islands as heroic islands, due to their great offer during the Greek revolution and especially during the destruction of the islands in 1824. We welcome the fact that this amendment has been accepted by both the relevant Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Tourism. Let me briefly mention the facts and facts primarily related to the destruction of the fish. The participation of Psarians in the Greek revolution is well documented and undeniably prominent. In view of the small size of the island and its great geographical distance from the centre of the uprising areas, the size of the contribution of the Fishes, as well as of Kasos in the fight for independence, has been disproportionately high. On the eve of the revolution the Psaras have had considerable resources, as their inhabitants have developed intense commercial and maritime activity in the past decades, exploiting as others residents of the Aegean Sea the opportunities that had arisen, due to the circumstances of Kutsuk Kainartzi and the Napoleon wars. Already on April 20, 1821, the Psarians raised the revolutionary flag at the Community store on the island. For the next three years about three years, tens of ships of the Psaryrians, including the great pyropolics, in prominence of Constantine Kanaris and Dimitris Papanikolis, are involved in attacks and battles against the Ottoman fleet. It is precisely because of the importance and effectiveness of the fishing ships that the attack on the island is one of the first actions in the sea decided by the new alliance in the sultan with the pasha of Egypt in the effort of the Gate to suppress the revolution. Similarly, the Egyptian fleet is crowned against Kassos. On June 20, 1824, over a hundred Ottoman ships manned with thousands of soldiers approach the Psaras. It is not perhaps more widely known, but on the small island at that time, not only the seven thousand permanent residents, but also a multiple number - possibly twenty thousand - refugees who had found refuge in this hospitable bulwark of the struggle from various areas, especially from neighboring Chios who had suffered the known massacres two years ago. The testimonies abound for the heroic acts of resistance and self-renunciation of the island's defenders in the following days. Although the apparent overpowering of the opposing forces has rendered rather predetermined the defeat, it is noted that in both the case of the Fishes and Kassos, the central administration of the rebelled Greece is unable in the midst of the already manifested civil conflicts to contribute effectively to the two islands. The conquest of the Fishes is accompanied by the almost complete destruction of the island and the tragic death or depletion of about half the inhabitants and refugees. The island is completely deserted for many years and the survivors of Psarian refugees are now wandering in various regions of free Greece, before a significant part of them settled in Eretria. The price paid by the Fishers was heavy on their contribution to the race. Through the enormous resonance that caused the event of their destruction, the Fishermen have contributed even further to the achievement of the objective of independence, even though they have slowed them down to join the Greek state. Ladies and gentlemen, it is often said that in order to achieve a collective purpose and to promote an idea we need persistent struggles, but also great sacrifices. I think that, in the case of the Fish and Casos, this reasoning gains complete verification, and indeed in an exemplary way heroic, but also deeply painful manner. For all the above reasons, I believe that the proclamation of the Fishes and Kassos on heroic islands, on the one hand, bears the highest honor to the men and women of these islands who were struggling and sacrificed and, on the other hand, are symbolically shielded not only by Greek but also by human historical memory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u208	Thank you. The parliamentary representative of the Democratic Association, Mr. Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. Justly, ladies and gentlemen, tourism is considered a key pillar of the Greek economy and therefore is inextricably linked to the development and prospects of growth in our country. Development and tourism together form a very basic and dynamic duplicate, which especially in a time of crisis should be at the top of the agenda of each government, regardless of ideological differences. It is unfortunate, however, that in the last four years of governance, the SYRIZA - ANEL period, the full-fledged failure, to use a mild characterisation, has also led to bad performance in the field of development. In 2014 - such as the financial years accounts made by the Ministry of Finance and presented to them here by Mr. Juliarakis - Greece was closed plus 0.7% growth and was walking next to Portugal, walking at 0.9%, in France, which was walking with 0.9%, in Austria walking at 0.8% and was in front of Italy, Cyprus and Finland. We were going, moving forward, but this course was overshadowed by today's majority, whose political choices lead our country to fade behind most European countries. What was conquered for the citizens in 2015, today, the government is struggling with it and that is about taxes, VAT and all that we have been discussing these days in the Committee on Economic Affairs for the 2019 budget. And that is why it is worth wondering that the Prime Minister and his ministers often show euphoria for the supposedly positive course of the economy. The real situation in the economy is far from being said by the government partners. And they're on a run. It seems that it is not very important for those who suffer the consequences of their illusions, mistakes and ideas. The surpluses, ladies and gentlemen, have come from overtaxing production classes and a number of anti-development measures. To be more specific, 6 billion out of 8 billion overcrowds come from tax and levy bill seizures, 770 million euros from the reduction in tax refunds and 1.3 billion euros from the reduction in public spending on development. At the end of the term of office of this government, a draft law, which concerns tourism, weak and deficit, comes in. Madam Minister, in order to be able to criticise, what would I consider to be your debt, my party's opinion of what you should do, not now or even now, but since you took over? You are not some politician who is suffocating in bureaucracy, you have had a margin of mind and freedom of movement, because your ministry is outside your daily very tough confrontation. We're telling you that you miss the strategy. You could, for example, in the first six months that you have undertaken, bring, not fragmentally, alpha, beta, pseudo-trophes that solve or the alpha or the beta issue posed to you by the citizens, but say how you see, since you have four years in front of you, how to intervene in the field of tourism to help. I will give you examples of normal everyday life. The country that has this tourist attraction is dirty in terms of the functioning of public spaces. You go from the bridge of Ryu, you reach Amphilosia and you are in modern Europe, you turn left to go to Lefkada and you see right and left of fifty kilometers of bags, cigarettes and whatever you want, except for a clean environment. And that's not just in Iato-Carnania, it's all over the country. You should have made it front of a full-scale plan for the country to clean up. There are a lot of people who would have participated and wouldn't have fooled. Did he think of you? Maybe he's been through you. I do not question you as a person, but as a policy, zero on that. Secondly, what I am referring to is the most serious issue concerning the country. The battle of Salamis is being taught in the universities of the world. Go to Salamis, to see what this professor who teaches the battle and who is his dream of life go there. I ran to the Marathon. I started from the Marathon. Great use: a statue of Miltiadis without a label underneath! The Thermopylae have become an issue worldwide, through cinema, and could be a place very attractive. Do you have any contribution to what could have been done there? Don't tell me it wasn't before. Yeah, it wasn't before. Did you launch the country's potential? That's all you were talking about. You didn't. You had a deposit of your predecessor, Mrs Kefaliannis, her signature on my own initiative, as Minister of Education, to create four undergraduate departments in the universities in Rhodes, Crete, Komotini, Chios, where she would be taught undergraduately in English to foreigners outside the European Union with tuition fees - the demand is too great - on maritime issues, on tourism, on issues relating to the ancient Greek secretariat. The Minister for Education or the Ministers for Education - four to three, governmental stability, but instability of ministers in Education - three ministers did not break them down or proceed with them. Presidential decree almost ready from Democratio stopped. Why have you not been enabled to force even one of the three to set up this duplex tourism - economy and above all education? Because the country is attractive on its own. She doesn't need you, neither does she need us. He doesn't need any of us. For medical tourism, because I don't have much time, Mr. Barriots will speak. But I remember, as Minister of Health, the claws caused by minions around the Ministry of Health and by services. Three articles are, as my colleague Mr Barriots informs me - he will tell you - which show a way. But they're staying to show him. They don't walk him. You have the example as a government of this terrible work done by the SINGA. Madam Secretary, you're also an athlete. Twice a year, in the Marathon and in the Semimarathon, - I participate and end both - Athens is filled with foreigners, and our hotels are filled with athletes, high-age athletes and their families. He's showing you the way. This way you should have walked him forward, and created for sporting tourism as well - not championship, but sport, which is a global phenomenon - conditions that would increase rationally and at dead times tourism in the direction of tourism for the 12 months. Nothing. Amateurs, proliferations concerning the tourism industry. The word, ladies and gentlemen, 'tourist industry', I do not like it at all. The Greek word 'tourism', which concerns tourism in Greece, is excavated. If you had started in 2015, we would have results. What results do you claim you have? The increase in the number of tourists, which you are celebrating every year. That's it. I don't care for what reasons we have an increase. As a Greek, I am, above all, interested in having an increase. I have told you in this Chamber before: that is good. Only one who's blind doesn't see the good. Is it because your policies pay off? Oh, no. You notice, you celebrate and you want to politicize it. Because strategy would mean development in tourism of these policies that I mentioned as examples, because I have no more time. Two - three pages are the individual tourism that a government had to work on. And the next ones owe it. And I don't forgive the previous ones. I quote: Minister, I, on the ministerial councils I participated, criticised the Ministers for Culture - Tourism and Culture once - as follows: How many marinas have been made, Minister Tsats, on your day? The answers were 'no', 'one'. I ask the same question to you. I was telling my colleagues that. You, where the country is still in crisis, do you have to give me examples of marinas that you have been facilitating to create? If you do, I will refer back to my criticism and tell you 'bravo'. I'm not biting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u210	I'm the first minister to get a presidential decree...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u211	Ah, he's got a presidential decree! Madam Minister, we are colleagues in the experience. I know you well. "I draw a presidential decree" means starting a process. The problem is how you help unblock it, after it has started, because interests are many - they are contradictory interests, you know them well - and they stop actions that we politicians want to move quickly. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like one more minute and I will finish. And while you have not made this progress, you have welcomed - someone else in your position would have resigned - the increase in VAT in the focus. You know from your international experience, that it is an inappropriate figure of 24% and that aiming to return to 13% that was in 2014, it is like confessing that you cost the Greek people with your presence and intervention of some billions of euros, which are not national accounts, ladies and gentlemen, to whom the finance ministers of the crisis are engaged, but it is the sweat of the one who is engaged in this area and who you are forced to evade, because otherwise it does not come out. And that is what all the professionals in Greece say! I close, Mr President, by reminding the Prime Minister's phrase when he spoke in 2014 at the Athens Chamber of Commerce and Industry: "We reject the model of "all inclusive" which is the model of the failed..." - he referred to us - "... the government of Samaras - Venizelos..." - as he said verbatim - "we will testify on a strategy plan and establish a Development Bank". None of what was said on December 9, 2014, on the eve of becoming government, happened. And while nothing has happened, there has been an upturn, namely the increase in taxes and VAT. You can't. It's obvious. And despite the fact that you've got the numbers' plea, you haven't taken advantage of them. That is why we also deplore today's draft law by voting against the majority of its articles, as expressed by Mr Carras. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u212	Mr Georgadas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to refer to the amendment by the Minister for the Interior in relation to the 3K declaration. The 3K notice for municipalities is a proclamation which, unfortunately, has concerned us and will concern us for a long time, because the government, by insisting on a wrong choice and not listening to the opposition, which has often highlighted the dangers created by the way in which it decided to operate in this notice, has now come to a point where all these imperfections, injustices and shortcomings in the proclamation come to light. It is, in fact, the largest proclamation served by the AACC - at least in the last few years - with the success of eight thousand per cent of our six fellow citizens for the various services of the municipalities. However, it will not remain in history as a proclamation with this large number, but as the only proclamation made and the provisional tables come out, without any control over the data, supporting documents and qualifications, which the candidate has simply stated in an electronic application. This is the first time that has been given the opportunity - and I will tell you why I believe that each candidate has been given the opportunity - to put his pre-service time in an electronic form, his degree, the time of his unemployment and his family situation. All of this was sent to the AACC, but without the simultaneous dispatch of those supporting documents that have been proved and the existence of these elements, as well as their adequacy and legitimacy. And we are hearing today from various sources that these tables are expected to change by 70%. Why? For many of our fellow citizens, others by mistake, others by mistake, others by ignorance, others by poor assessment, some of which may have been inappropriate, have declared qualifications and supporting documents that are neither existing nor do they respond to the real situation, as it has been said, with the result that they will be precedented in the provisional tables. This, especially in small regions, has created a great sense of injustice, as people know each other. And some people who had applied and are now outside the provisional tables cannot understand how this happened and while they should be the ones who work today, some others work. And we succeeded in a proclamation, which concerns people who are simple, cleansing workers, basically, or craftsmen in the municipalities, creating and creating strong controversies and conflicts in small local communities. When the government brought this amendment we said: 'There is a direct need for cleanliness, as you have done and brought it here. Apply the law’s option for a two-month or two-month cleaning contract, where necessary, to allow the AACC to make a treatment of the supporting documents and then get the provisional tables out.” As simple as always. There's never been a statement before, you check something in a box, and you go out on the successful board, without the supporting documents being sent. That's the ones they followed. The government did not do that. And look at what comes today and does: Firstly, because of the very large number and precisely because no pre-control had been made and all control is now being carried out, the AACC cannot, of course, respond to this need. At the same time, the government and Law 2190/1994, the famous law of ASEAN, come in the first place, in the second place. 164/2004 he's tearing it down. We all remembered that the conventions had an eight-month duration precisely so that expectations or rights of extensions and legitimisation were not subsequently created. So this eight-month term ends, the government is now coming, it is expanding - listen - not for two or three months, but until the final results are issued. And when will the final rights come out? Can anyone tell us? And those who deserve - and according to the information are 70% of the successful ones - to work, sit and watch trains pass and others who are not entitled to it are going to work? The sacred right to work had to be guaranteed by the state the process of credibility and objectivity to be claimed by the person who actually has the dignity, he has the qualifications, he has the evidence. It cannot at the moment, with this inadequacy in this legislation, with this obsession that the government wanted to show that it is coming and making a big competition, without any control, without creating these injustices and at the same time destroying a very serious law. And listen a little: The possibility of hiring with temporary tables, with eight-month contracts, is an exception. Expansion capacity does not exist. It shall be explicitly prohibited in this article. It's expressly forbidden! Exceptionally, for reasons of public interest, it is to get from the provisional tables eight months. And I see Mr. Carras agrees, who is a good lawyer. There is no possibility of prolonging. What you are voting on today - this extension - you are simply voting on something illegal. And someone will tell me, "But what do we do now?" What can we do now? Firstly, it is winter and fortunately there is not much issue with cleanliness. With the eight months to end these conventions, to be given a two-month period to meet all the needs - where there is - that the law enables them directly and without the SAPA, so that the right results can finally come to an end and those who have to work, those who are currently unjust, and those who are now actually waiting to work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. The results of this notice are evaluated and assessed, and your credibility, the sense of justice that must exist throughout the world, a situation which has been created and is now showing a dead end. And all this could have been avoided if you gave six months, five months, as long as necessary, to become the pre-control of supporting documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Georgiod, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u215	I am done, Mr President, and thank you very much. I am sorry, but I must point out that the government with its choices has brought you the majority Members today in a position to vote for an illegal extension and to deprive the real beneficiaries of the right to work. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u216	Thank you. Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I would like to say a little bit about the rest of the procedure by the end of the day. On the list of speakers there are still registered thirteen MPs, which means that we arrive close to an hour and a half with seven minutes. I propose to the remaining speakers that the time should be reduced by two minutes, as for the parliamentary representatives of which one has already spoken, two will not be placed and five left. If we sum up all the time, along with the Minister who has not even spoken, and who is entitled to an eighteenth, twenty minutes, and add the seconds - even reduced - we will spend 17:30 and go for 18.00, together with the vote. There are two issues: The first is that the traffic will stop and the area will close around the center and from the House and there will be no exit. The second issue - which is important - is that on the basis of this development, the Presidents that would cover the meeting were scheduled. After me, there is another President-in-Office. Then there's gonna be a question. If you agree - and let us close it here, so as not to delay - to limit the speaking time by two minutes and, of course, also by the parliamentary representatives and, respectively, the seconds, where any of the rapporteurs or speakers wants to say something that he did not say in his prototype, say so. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u219	If the rest of the rapporteurs agree, I personally do not intend to use the dentistry. That is what I was talking about with my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u220	Do you agree with the Bureau's proposal in the sense of reducing the time by two minutes the parliamentary representatives and the speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u221	I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u222	And of course, it is a warm request to keep even this time that we are reducing. Warm request!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u224	No, Mr. Apostle, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u225	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u226	Excuse me, Mr Apostle, there is the SYRIZA rapporteur here, there is the parliamentary representative. Mr. Igoumenides called the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u227	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u228	Mr Ursuzidis, would you like to take the floor on this too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, if there is a possibility that five minutes will be tolerable, since specialist speakers have resigned from dentistry. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u230	We therefore agree to reduce time. From there on, you and the Bureau will have every effort to ensure that we are within the timeframe. Warm request.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u232	Madam Minister, would you like to talk about the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u233	For the amendments tabled by the Members and the Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u234	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u235	I accept all the amendments of the Ministers, the amendment with a general number of 1821, the amendment with a general number of 1823, the amendment with a general number of 1825, the amendment with a general number of 1827, the amendment with a general number of 1828 and the amendment with a general number of 1829. I also accept the following amendments: Amendment No 1816, Amendment No 1817, Amendment No 1817, Amendment No 1819, and Amendment No 1820.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u236	I mean, everybody.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u237	Not all of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u238	Can you tell the MPs in detail?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u239	I accept Amendment No 1816 by Mr Kontonis: 'Suspension of enforcement acts', Amendment No 1817 by Mr Gaki and Mr Michaelides: 'Renewal of Kasos and of Fish as heroic islands', Amendment No 1819 by the general number. Carras, Arvanitides and Kegeroglou: 'Reasonable application of transitional provisions on the standard qualifications of shellfishermen and spongiform fishing vessels'. Amendment No 1820 by Mr Thraniotis, Mr Igoumenidis and Mr Kamaterou, on the rationalisation of the thematic tourism for training, is also accepted. Finally, the Ministers' amendments are accepted. I think they came and supported them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Minister. Mr Barriottas has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u241	Mr President, I will try to respect the five minutes. Before I speak on the subject of medical tourism, as Mr Loverdes said a moment ago, I would like to make two comments. One relates to an amendment by the Ministry of Health, which, for the time being, has been 'experimenting' qualifications in the common sense to mobilise a pre-service for recruitment and, at the same time, extends for two weeks - from 30 November to 14 December - the deadline for the issue of the relevant notice. I just hope that it is the last one, because there are too many of them lately, who are playing with numbers and notices, and they are about people who are waiting and fighting. The second thing I hope is that we do not have a new extension on 15 December. Let us be a little more brave on the extensions, in any case, especially when we are not able to do the job in a timely manner. At least, let's not employ the House. The second has to do with a terminology. Minister, there is a protest and a point from people who deal with what is called the English 'outdoor activities', that is, outdoor activities. The bill passes a term'sport recreation'. In google both, and the "sport recreation" and the "athletic recreation" do not produce any effect on thematic tourism. They produce other results.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u242	They've become legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u243	Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Many times even if philosophically or out of impeccable bureaucracy a term is right, the person who has been filed and is better to adopt. I think the 'outdoor activities' are 'outdoor activities'. This is how tourists are looking for it from abroad, and that is how they usually find it. The other term creates problems, which have little to do with the substance. Now, I'll talk about medical tourism. The bill aspired to be a verdict, dealing with the problems of the thematic tourism and became an impenetrable bill in that it lacked a strategy, as Mr Loverd said or, if you like, a philosophy. It's fragmentary. My colleagues have said so before. I want to talk about an issue which, in my opinion, is very important. It is a matter of topical concern to this draft law. It is medical tourism, which is very much discussed in the country, but unfortunately in recent years little has been done. In order to get into what a colleague has already said, it is an international economic activity, which is growing at a rate of 20% per year. It is an activity that, with very conservative calculations, can reach 2 billion euros a year in the country. The definitions in Article 20 are correct. There are these three major categories of medical tourism. Unfortunately, in the next article, in the 21st, the creation of the archives is again referred to as a CFD. It is the CSR which has been pending since 2014, in essence, in order to be able to obtain the institutional framework or, if you like, to activate the institutional framework that exists. There is a big problem for the development of medical tourism. Medical tourism is not just "wellness", well-being. It's not just health tourism. That's a small piece. Real medical tourism is a huge activity, which, in order to be able to thrive and work in Greece, needs something very simple: Quality and certifications. Without the certification of providers, it is not possible to conclude agreements with insurance funds and foreign providers that bring patients. This activity, the transport of patients from the centre to the region for interventions and treatments, is something in which Turkey is currently a champion. Singapore's on its way. We have huge comparative advantages. We are a European country. We have references to European directives. We have incorporated the directive. We've got an extra amount of doctors trained downtown. We have doctors, that is, who have biographics, which are recognized by patients. We have infrastructure. We've got a lot of everything. At the same time, we also have an exit of health professionals massively from abroad. The only way that exists, in my opinion, in order to regain this trend and to produce a development process, is to be able to support medical tourism. Unfortunately, the adoption of a specific joint ministerial decision has been pending since 2014 - it has never been - precisely about certification. There is only one good example that has been made at the request of the industry. Physicians and fertility centres demanded certification and framework and took them. Tragic detail of where the public is located is that only public centres could not be certified because they did not have the money and the opportunity. They have been excluded from the need and have also been excluded from participation in medical tourism. We have huge potential. It is really a shame not to use them. Larissa from which I come has an overcompensation of rehabilitation centres and excellent private structures, which can tomorrow morning and be certified and started the process of hosting patients. It's been fragmentary and occasional in the past. All entrepreneurs in the sector are asking for the simplest. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unfortunately, as far as the bill is concerned, although both the forecasts for health tourism and the forecast for the register needed some basic improvements, which had been discussed here, and the Minister was present in a timely question a year and a half ago to the Ministry of Health, but with responsibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u244	Mr. Barriotta, complete. We spent all six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u245	I shall conclude, Mr President. I repeat under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, nothing has gone wrong. Certifications and recognition of centres are the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. The Joint Ministerial Decision, pending, is delayed by the Ministry of Health. If it does not go ahead, a very important and serious economic activity in which we are overcome, as I have said before, the neighbours will remain practically inactive in Greece, precisely because the public is unable to monitor developments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u246	Mr. Apostleus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, after Mr Apostlelos, I would like to talk about the legislative improvements we are putting forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u248	All right, Minister. Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we want to do about the bill under discussion? We want to use the multiple advantages of the countryside by highlighting new and innovative tourist activities. In particular in rural areas, there can be such forms of alternative tourism that can also be found in the great problem of the tourist area, which is the possibility of services all year round. Agricultural tourism is a mild form of tourism and rural development that brings the city's inhabitants to the village's environment and enables it to become integrated into local conditions. It is a development proposal that seeks to continue the production of traditional products that might have disappeared, maintained or resurrected arts that would have disappeared, maintained memories by resurrecting customs and traditional events, become a communication channel between isolated areas. The tourist in rural tourism is the visitor, a traveler looking for the secrets of the place, the natural heritage and all that he has to offer to him separately.It does not substitute for agricultural activities, on the contrary, support them by adding an extra income. For example, it does not only concern the harvesting of olives, the harvest, but also the local cuisine, with the testing of wine with all that, I would say, which can give a special identity to agricultural tourism and show it as a unique product. Biodiversity, history, tradition, gastronomy, culture, villages, traditions, local festivals all make up a unique one in every form and expression. Unfortunately, in Greece we have connected rural tourism with the hostels. Many of them may have been financed mainly through the LEADER programmes, but they do not represent what we want. The agrotourism we are discussing is based on the accommodation of well-formed houses of traditional architecture or of houses with a remarkable local character. In other words, rural tourism begins from the guest’s accommodation and extends to its daily organized adventures. This is how the natural and cultural heritage is preserved, but also exploited. We aim, ladies and gentlemen, to the people of the countryside and the natural environment, to stimulate rural life, so that the mountain villages and disadvantaged areas of the country cease to be devastated. We want to give life to forgotten Greece, but also motives to many young people to return to their country. We have funding possibilities today both from the 'LEADER' programme, which has been allocated to the regions, but we are monitoring it and from concrete measures under the 'Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020'. The forms that we are discussing are the result of close cooperation on their institutional structure with the Minister of Tourism, Mrs Kouturas, and are mentioned in particular. Other more and more can emerge, I would say, specialists. In my speech to the Standing Committee on Production and Trade I referred to two forms of agricultural tourism, wine and multifunctional farms. Today I am going to stand by for a moment - I will not get over time, Mr President - in gastronomic tourism. It is now a common finding that we have an increased movement on the roads of gastronomy, due to the growing culture of health attention through the search for food quality and a universal one, I would say, that gastronomy, having been decisively integrated into the functioning of the economy, has gained economic elements of great importance. That is why the primary sector and nutrition are the ones that hold stable values. A journey, for example, into a wine-growing zone with a glass of wine at the end of the road in a winery or a hiking in a mountainous path passing through an ovine and caprine plant, which will end up in a cheese shop for testing the country's PDO slice of geographical indication, is understood to be one of the typical cases of organizing gastronomic travel. So these can be provided by the Greek countryside and it is good that these advantages are served by this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u250	The Minister has asked for the floor to submit legislative improvements. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to put forward the legislative improvements in the Minutes so that colleagues can see them and say what we have done. In principle, a lot has been said in the committees and we have adopted them almost all. In Article 4(7) concerning rural tourism after the words ‘based on geological’, the words ‘and geomorphological’ are added. At the end of the same paragraph, the phrases are added: ‘Includes mild touring and enjoying the landscape, as well as scientific and educational activities. It shall promote environmental education and management in a sustainable manner.’; And I come to Article 6, entitled 'Sport tourism'. Here I can explain that it was very clear that it was a matter of purely outdoor and leisure activities, which have no competition, nor of a racing character, nor do they refer to the General Secretariat of Sports, which clearly have the athletic part. However, in order to be more understandable, we have added the words in the first subparagraph of paragraph 2 to Article 6 as follows: After the words '... sports events and tourism', the words 'outdoor activities' and after the words'sport recreation' are added. All of these are in all three articles concerning rural tourism and sports recreation and adventure. In paragraph 2, after the words ‘sports events’, the words ‘if they combine their stay at the place where the events take place or elsewhere’ shall be added. In the first subparagraph of paragraph 2, after the word ‘tourism’, the words ‘outdoor activities’ and in the second subparagraph of the same indent the words ‘As an activity of sporting recreation — adventure’ shall be replaced by ‘As an outdoor activities of sporting recreation — adventure’, etc. Anyway, it's taken care of. In Article 7, the words ‘by common decision of the Minister of Tourism’ shall be replaced by ‘by a joint decision of the Ministers for Tourism, Culture and Sport’. There was a void. It was by mistake. The title of Article 8 of the draft law: ‘Special Sign of Operational Tourism, Sports Recreation, Adventure - Special Sign of Sports Tourism’ is replaced by the following: ‘Special Sign for the Operation of Outdoor Sports Activities and Adventure’.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u252	Madam Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt. Are there too many amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u253	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u254	You don't have to read them all. You testify to them and they'll read them. You can read more encoded, if necessary, as in what articles refer to, etc. If it's easy for you, Minister, because we're generally under pressure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u255	As regards air tourism, where the ‘international regulatory framework’ says is replaced by ‘the national and international regulatory framework and the procedure of the relevant bodies’. In health tourism, we put 'health tourism includes medical tourism' - a party - and the words'medical...' and so on. In other words, we put what you requested, for example. The Electronic Register of Medical Tourism made it "Electronic Register of Tourism Health". In Article 28 some legal remarks were made by the General Secretariat of the Government so that the institutional framework is in place to clarify the checks when infringements are detected, so that there is a result. In Article 32 in the "classification of tourist accommodation" we simply added some words "valid techniques" and "valid" and in Article 35 where it says "administration, management and exploitation and placement of tourist ports" we added "the EOT. May be granted to the terrestrial zone’. We also made legal improvements to Article 47 for guides. I want you to know that the way in which we accepted it was that we could not violate the remarks made to us by the College of Public Administration Auditors, but also by the Citizens' Independent Authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Cavadas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by wishing for many years in the Hellenic Navy, in our port, to all our seamen and all the holidaymakers. Today we are discussing a very important bill on specific forms of tourism, tourism education and strengthening entrepreneurship in tourism. We are talking about arrangements that are closely linked to regional and local development, the local economy and the creation of new jobs. The bill was put into consultation about eleven months ago, but finally it comes today for discussion and vote in Parliament. Personally, I will focus more on thematic tourism, where bold steps and substantial interventions are needed, because the development of specific forms of tourism entails an extension of the tourist season throughout the year, a policy to which you too agree, Minister, through your statements. Unfortunately, however, this bill contains only theoretical arrangements, because in substance and content it does not deal with any of the major problems. It does not create the conditions for the development of the sector, because in order to implement the proposed provisions a two-digit number of ministerial decisions is needed. In other words, with so much bureaucracy that you have already condemned tourist development in this draft law. The impressive thing is that you have taken four years to bring this bill to the House at the end of your term of office, even though in some categories of the thematic tourism, such as health tourism, you have received a ready institutional framework. If you really wanted, Minister, to make an integrated legislative intervention in this area, you should have solved some real problems. For each of the specific forms of tourism there should be a clear legal framework and a clear target for where we want to go and what we want to do. The development of thematic tourism does not need to be welcomed, it wants specific interventions that solve specific problems. I take as an example the dive tourism that has huge development prospects, as our country offers very clean waters, good visibility and a hospitable dive environment. Our waters host hundreds of shipwrecks, many of which are of the First and Second World War and are an important attraction for the divers. On my island, in Lefkada, there are many important warships. For example, between Lefkada and Kefalonia there is a French battleship in World War I and a German submarine, hiding interesting naval stories. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] However, under the existing legal framework, the Ministerial Decision of 2003, shipwrecks over fifty years, such as this, are regarded as cultural monuments and a submarine visit to them is prohibited. I do not disagree with the designation, but under strict conditions some of them should be exploited in diving tourism. So how else can we develop the industry? How can we advertise through tourist agencies an activity that is forbidden? Do you know, Minister, that tourist agents refuse to display our country as diving tourism for the reason I mentioned? I note here that they already operate in Greece about three hundred diving centres and we have about fifteen thousand active divers, which is growing rapidly. On the contrary, there are only three million active divers in Germany, one million of which travels for diving. Our country is already attracting more than two hundred thousand divers who come in order to dive, so, as you can see, there is enormous room for growth. So what we ask you to do is exclude the certified diving centres from this ban and allow them to dive into monuments of more than fifty years and not subject to the provisions of the archaeological law, such as those of World War I and World War II. We must also promote our country through the EOT internationally as a diving destination. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In this respect - give me one more minute, Madam President - we need to resolve practical issues relating in general to maritime tourism, cruise, yachting, coastal recreational activities and the development of marinas, issues that are top priority for our country and for areas such as Lefkada. Top priority is also the reduction of the high tax imposed by the government on tourism. I would remind you that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government received from New Democracy a VAT on the focus of 13% and increased it to 24%, while at the accommodation he received 6.5% and took him to 13%. And it also imposed a new tax, the night's charge, apart from the increases it imposed on the taxation of all businesses. All of these are anti-development taxes that make our tourism product more expensive and less competitive in the global environment. And it is in the New Democracy's priorities to correct things, especially tourism, which is the key lever for the growth of the economy, by returning VAT to the focus of 13% and 11% in a second year. Only with a plan and specific intervention can we develop our tourism product. We are a country that must take advantage of our enormous comparative advantages and offer the tourist services of three hundred and sixty-five days a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, too. I would ask that the five-minute period be observed because there is a good reason. Mr. Thraniotis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Madam President. It has been heard by many of my fellow speakers that tourism is one of the key pillars of our economy. It is also a sensitive product, however, since it depends on many unstable factors. The main is the political stability of the wider region. In our country, despite the wars in the Middle East, tensions, refugee flows and political crises in neighbouring countries, it managed to remain a safe destination. This is the result of consistent political dialogue, in a spirit of cooperation and co-development, carried out by the Greek Government in the wider region. At the same time, tourism has developed into a major international economic activity, controlled by great interests, oligopolistic travel agencies, which can easily manipulate it, i.e. headed. This is particularly true of so-called'mass tourism', which unfortunately dominates our country. So, in a highly competitive environment, our tourism policy needs to highlight and exploit the special features, taking advantage of the comparative advantages that our country has, to upgrade the services offered, to gain a better quality for the one seeking something different, so that it becomes attractive, competitive, experiential and thus sustainable. In this direction, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law we are debating today and along with the forthcoming draft law on tourism education, creates an integrated framework for the promotion and shielding of the tourist product. The interconnection of tourism activities with the sectors of the economy, such as food and processing, as well as the comparative advantages of our country, its geostrategic position, its long history, cultural features combined with the natural environment, and the traditional perception of hospitality, create the framework for sustainable development of tourism for the benefit of Greek society. But allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to make a brief reference to Lassithi. You know the joke that's usually going on. Crete has four counties, the following three: Chania, Rethymnon and Heraklion. And, unfortunately, it's based. Lassithi falls short of infrastructure, higher education, etc. It has, however, a wonderful yet natural environment, with important monuments both archaeologically and of course, such as protected areas "NATURA", such as the island of Gold, the unique Phoenician forest of Vai, the geopark of Sitia, one of the four geoparks of Greece included in the global geoparks of Unesco, the Cold Cave at Lasithi plateau, where in mythology Zeus was born, as well as Minoan palaces such as Zakros and Petras of Sitia. Spinalonga is a second visitable monument to Crete after Knossos and candidate for membership of UNESCO World Heritage Monuments. Lasithi is an important destination and, in particular, Agios Nikolaos, who was a pioneer in large-scale tourism and has high-level hotel facilities. Investments are already planned in Lassithi and Agios Nikolaos, which are close to EUR 1 billion. It has the potential to attract quality tourism as long as the conditions are met. The creation of the new airport, the completion of the northern road axis to Sitia, the upgrading of Sitia airport are preconditions. At the same time, however, we need to pay special attention to ensure that we do not destroy this wonderful set by developing activities that are not compatible with the environment and the landscape. We must respect the protection of the landscape, which highlights for the first time the spatial planning of Crete. A fundamental prerequisite is the protection of workers' rights with decent wages, guaranteeing insurance rights, combating undeclared, undeclared and unpaid work, practices which, apart from having acquired rights, at the same time creating unfair competition with healthy businesses. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I shall end. This separate wealth of Lassithi can be particularly exploited by this bill, which sets a modern institutional framework for categorisation, licensing and operating mode for businesses active in the tourism sector, while creating a friendly and attractive environment for business steps in specific more specific forms of tourism. The development of these alternative forms of tourism can extend the tourist season and reduce the great economic and social costs caused by seasonality and characterise the dominant model of "solver and sea". As an example, I should like to refer to Article 4 where rural tourism is delimited, which includes rural tourism, wine tourism, tours and fishing tourism, species of tourism which in recent years have helped to promote local products, elements and images of the Greek nature, as well as the general culture of our countryside. Finally, allow me to express my thanks to the Minister of Tourism, Mr Kountoura, for accepting the amendment on the seating positions of the Higher Tourism Schools, which in particular in Agios Nikolaos, had caused reasonable concern and great upset over the future of the School. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u261	Madam President, can I take the floor to develop and support an amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u262	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Madam President. It is Amendment No 1829, and special 13 on retrospectives. The first article of the amendment includes the members of the Educational Staff and the Special Teacher of the Academy of Merchant Navy, as well as the researchers of the Centre for Planning and Economic Research and also the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Diplomacy. It is the amendment of Law 4575/2018. In the second article we amend Article 60 of Law 4172/2013. This is about tax treatment of one-off sums of money. The one-off sums paid to the beneficiaries of Articles 10 to 15 of Law 4575/2018, as well as those included in the above article, will be taxed at 20% and that is where the tax obligation of the beneficiaries on these incomes will be exhausted. What they will get, that is, the 20% tax will be withheld and there will be no obligation to amend in previous years. It's over by paying the net amount they'll get. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Contonis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was very surprised today by the attack by the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, on an amendment he had tabled. From PASOK he accepted this attack, no matter what names he chooses this party every time. They left unobtrusive characterizations and suspicions that something wicked is going on here. Ladies and gentlemen, this attack takes place on the day following the condemnation of a PASOK Minister - I do not know if he is the seventh or eighth -. This time, not because he disappeared some list of foreign depositors, not because he took misery and took them to the party offices, not because he took stock of the equipment, but because he took a loan from a loan shark to a citizen to whom he broke. And the next day they come to this Chamber, they make criticisms, they speak of a government strife, they ask for votes from the Greek people and they are bavaging as will be the surprise of the elections. The surprise will surely be, but I don't know what a deep surprise this is. As far as the bill is concerned, Minister, I would like to say that the situation currently under discussion at the National Representation is happy because it is being discussed after a highly successful tourist season. We who live in tourist areas well know that, in order for this year to be successful in Greek tourism, a great deal of effort has been spent by the Ministry and a proper strategy has been implemented, which you have drawn up since the first moment you have undertaken, so that we can have these results. And despite the crocodile tears of some people that it supposedly acted disastrously on competition, Greek tourism was completely competitive and brought these high rates of tourist entry. So this is the answer to neoliberal newcomers who come here and not much or much say to us: "Don't put any more taxes on entrepreneurs. Reduce pensions further, because that is, there is no other way." I would therefore like to say that your plan is absolutely positive and we must vote in favour of it all because it finally puts an end to the one-dimensional tourism that we have known so far, through the many thematic tourism - if I may say so - which is being presented and implemented. I would also like to say something to some who have seen today as a weakness of the bill, that there will be a lot of joint ministerial decisions. Of course, a lot of joint ministerial decisions will be needed because they are synergies of the Ministry of Tourism with the relevant ministries, such as the Ministry of Culture or the Ministry of Sports or the Ministry of Rural Development, etc. That is exactly what constitutes the power of the bill, they come here and present it to us as his weakness. The most important thing for all of us, ladies and gentlemen, is that the bases of tourism education are finally laid in the place, because after many years and after that attempt to dismantle the reality of tourism education, the government is putting the question of tourism education again. Because without the upgrading of tourist education, we will not have a high level of tourist staff and whether we are going to fall into empiricalism or - much worse - into things of 'doing and then seeing', which destroy our tourism, the environment and create conditions for workers. I also want to talk about thematic tourism. Thematic tourism will not extend the tourist season alone, because it will not only provide the sun and sea that is primarily the summer product. It will highlight many additional aspects that we can highlight, such as our culture, sport, agricultural tourism, etc., the previous speakers have said and I do not want to expand. It is a bill of overall upgrading of tourism at all levels and I am truly surprised when I hear this type of criticism of this bill in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment and the Minister has already accepted it. I did not understand what the PASOK spokesman wanted to say - you were not, Mr Carras, another colleague of yours - for the amendment. Zakynthos was tested by a powerful earthquake and is in emergency. That is why we have proposed - and I am pleased that the Minister has accepted it - the suspension of the auctions for this period. Because it is not possible for the island to be in an emergency and to auction. As is also unthinkable for those who have suffered losses to their real estate to be auctioned. The amendment rightly provides for the suspension of the auctions on those who have damaged their real estate by the end of 2019. I thank the Minister who has accepted the amendment and I hope he will be voted on by all parties. I would like to mention two things, Madam President, for just a minute. Because there is a debate about a new sport law, I would like to say that in my term of office at the Ministry of Culture and Sport as the State Secretary for Sports, I have never met the Troika and I have received 'demands' - or whatever you want to say, we were talking about death at the time - of any matter. I would like to clarify this because I see some articles and reports that there was intervention at the time. I never met her. My first meeting with the troika was when I took over as Minister of Justice. I mean one last thing. Ladies and gentlemen, a decision by the Competition Committee was published yesterday. It's out of the law, but we have to report it. Madam President, this is about you and the Committee on Institutions and Transparency in which you are chairing. The decision of the Competition Committee, as to its rationale, confirmed that two companies had been set up in the distribution of the press. And despite the fact that it has been made in the decision that this crust has been operating for years with huge profits - and it is not only that it has been working as a crust and with huge profits, because it is being affected here by citizens' information and therefore one of the pillars of the Republic - and yet it is being imposed ridiculous fines which do not even touch the illegal benefit of these companies that have been doing so for years. So here we either laugh at these decisions or something else happens. In any case, I propose that the President of the Committee on Competition should be invited by the Committee on Institutions and Transparency to explain how a very good reasoning ends up inadmissiblely low in terms of the amount of fines and penalties. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the bill should be passed today by all Parliament's wings and as far as the objections that have been heard that you are supposedly late, Minister, to bring it to Parliament, are indeed late. You've been 30 years late! We ruled thirty years and we were late to bring it! Those who today denounce that we are late did not bring it in thirty years that were ruling this place? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u266	Thank you. Mr Kontonis, we have called on the President of the Committee on Competition on Tuesday to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency not only for this, but generally to hear about the facts of the Authority. Please again to keep time because the staff have to leave, they have stopped the subway. I call on Mr Nikolaos Papadopoulos, to whom we wish many years, as well as Mr Igoumenides, who are our current communists. Happy birthday to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u267	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary the bill of the Ministry of Tourism's 'Thematic Tourism - Specific forms of tourism - Arrangements for the modernisation of the institutional framework in the field of tourism and tourism education - Support for tourism entrepreneurship and other provisions'. I would like to speak, as you can see, on the specific articles relating to thematic tourism, particularly rural tourism and rural tourism. This bill creates the framework to develop activities that will bring new experience to visitors in the interior and abroad, tourists, who will come to our country. We will promote our local products, strengthen regional, local, agricultural production and economy and achieve a mild, sustainable, sustainable tourist development that does not harm the environment and every place, but protect it and support it. At the same time, it will stimulate tourist activity and without time constraints it will actually be able to offer three hundred and sixty-five days a year, depending on seasons, parts, preferences. He'll create jobs for young people for the unemployed. It will benefit farmers and producers, who will be able to sell their products by strengthening their income, creating a framework for highlighting our valuable Mediterranean products, healthy Mediterranean food and increasing the attractiveness and competitiveness of our agricultural production. We can therefore say that the bill creates a horizon and multiplier benefits in the productive sectors of our national economy and supports our national effort for the country's productive reconstruction. Especially now, the thematic tourism term means any special form of sustainable tourist development, which offers visitors entertainment through genuine experiences while encouraging interaction with the natural and anthropogenic environment. These are modern forms of tourism which promote the particular features of each region, but which are based on the protection of the environment and the promotion and acquaintance of our cultural elements, our customs, traditions, traditions and local gastronomy of our region. In particular, rural tourism concerns reception and accommodation services in areas integrated with agricultural holdings, activities related to agricultural production, as well as the promotion of the natural and anthropogenic rural landscape. The activity of agritourism is necessarily combined with the production of agricultural products. We have to say here how great a need there is to ensure the quality of our products, the traceability marks, the quality of agricultural products, so that they are recognised and promoted in the best way possible. Finally, this draft law highlights our national strategy for thematic tourism. It prioritises the emergence of the thematic products, increasing revenues from new foreign markets of visitors and attracting foreign investments of great added value, because it ensures a stable and environmentally friendly business development model, highlighting our country as a leading and unique tourist destination that combines all specific forms of tourism, gaining an overwhelming advantage over other global tourist destinations. I'm in my time, so I'm going to make two more remarks. One was already told by comrade Contonis. They say that the New Democracy colleagues - of course now only one, the others are gone - give so much weight to this bill that there is only one left - 'four years'? Comrade Contonis said so I don't have to say it. They also brought data from the OECD that we were twenty - two - four. Here they went bankrupt the country, they reached the bottom, they didn't apologize for anything and they come forward and they swing the finger saying 'what did you do in four years?' Slowly, colleagues of the New Democracy, in turn, the Tsipras Government will take care of all the issues. And stop saying "election year". Of course, 2019 is an election year. Is she smart? Thank you very much. Be well and thank you for your years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u268	Thank you. Mr. Karagiannis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that tourism is a central priority of the government and that it plays a leading role in the national effort for the economic and social development of the country. The implementation of the national tourism policy and the strategic planning of the Ministry of Tourism have achieved significant results in the last three years, such as: firstly, the extension of the summer tourist season. Secondly, the emergence of new destinations. Thirdly, opening up new markets with high purchasing power visitors and fourthly creating a framework for attracting new high standards of tourism investment. Thematic tourism is a separate chapter with huge dynamics that have so far not been fully exploited. In a country like Greece, which can offer experiences of thematic tourism of three hundred and sixty-five days a year, its development is a necessity for the quality upgrade of all the tourist product. This draft law is the first integrated institutional intervention to develop thematic tourism in Greece based on international standards. It is a modern and clear framework for the development, organisation and supervision of professional activities and entrepreneurship in thematic tourism, which covers legislative gaps and contradictions, promotes the reduction of bureaucracy and faces problems identified in the tourism market. In the first part of the draft legislation, the concept of thematic tourism with its various categories is established. These are the most modern forms of tourism that highlight the special features and comparative advantages of each region. At the same time, they connect the tourist activity and the tourist product to primary production, culture and local gastronomy. This must be, in my view, the development strategy that fits our country and has been successfully implemented in other Mediterranean countries. Thematic tourism activities thus support local communities throughout Greece, but especially in those regions of the country that are not able to welcome mass tourism, such as my region, the Ioannina Prefecture, which can accommodate almost all of these activities. But in order to be able to support such an undertaking, it requires a change of attitude, culture, cooperation and synergies, strict state controls, certification and professionalism. The second part of the draft law seeks the full modernisation of the existing institutional framework in a number of factors to which the previous speakers have already referred, and I shall not refer. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill on the thematic tourism and special forms of tourism comes following a series of interventions by the Ministry, which solved the great vulnerabilities of the Greek tourism market, to form a new reality for the Greek tourism that the place and the market need. It will benefit tourist businesses, destinations and local communities across the country, as well as professionals in many other productive sectors directly or indirectly linked to tourism. In conclusion, because of my participation in the South-East European Parliamentary Assemblys and the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organisation, the Ministry's leading role in the design and development of the thematic tourism paths in the wider region of south-eastern Europe and the Black Sea, such as the tourism of the Silver Road, the common tourism route in the Balkans with reference points to the monuments of UNESCO's world cultural heritage, the geoparcas, the Wine Roads and the creation of historical routes in the paradoxical countries, necessary, extrovertous and developmental activities of post-mortem Greece. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u270	Thank you for the time too. Mrs Vaki, also a SYRIZA MEP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called on to vote in favour of a draft law on a high-priority sector for the government, our heavy industry and tourism. The Ministry's bill aims at developing, organising and supervising activities and entrepreneurship related to thematic tourism. The ultimate objective and pursuit are, firstly, sustainable, balanced and fair tourist development to support regional and local economies and societies. Secondly, it is the stimulation of tourist activity, and thirdly, the creation of jobs and the well-being of citizens in the context of the promotion of the domestic tourist product, so as to increase their attractiveness and competitiveness. The draft law on the thematic tourism and modernisation of the operation of the tourism market introduces for the first time a framework that defines the specific forms of tourism and provides for the development of a new professional activity in thematic tourism, based on modern standards and international trends. Until now, the thematic tourism has not been regulated under national legislation and any provisions that existed were fragmentary, without an integrated institutional framework. That's in response to the accusations that we're late to be invoked before. There was nothing. Partial provisions. With the present draft law, therefore, the foundations for the development of tourism, agricultural tourism, fishing tourism, wine tourism, sport, marine, conference, cultural and so on are laid. One of the main objectives of the country at national and regional level is to mitigate seasonal tourism. The aim is to tourism for sixty-five days a year, with each region being able to develop in terms of sustainability and, of course, to spread to local communities. This also opens the way for the creation of new jobs and new sources of revenue. The time, of course, when the provisions of this draft law are introduced is not at all random. With a view to protecting the world of work, the Government, following the extension of the sectoral labour contract for hotel workers, also proceeds with further arrangements focusing on the needs of workers, small and medium-sized enterprises and local communities. After all, within a short time there is also an increase in the minimum wage, the abolition of the minimum wage, and we are already in a period of restoring collective bargaining and collective bargaining. At the same time, we are also experiencing a period of high rates of tourist development. This year, we have seen a two-digit increase in arrivals and around EUR 2 billion extra revenue in our national economy. I would now like to make a reference to the Ionian Islands, for which, of course, tourism is the main factor in development. The activities of the inhabitants of the Ionian Islands region focus on the tertiary economic sector with tourism a dominant role. In recent years the participation of the tourism sector in GDP formation in the Ionian Islands economy has reached 50% over 8% at country level. At the same time, the contribution of tourism to employment is 17% on the Ionian Islands, compared with 8.5% on the Region. This year, the news was again positive with a two-digit rise in foreign growth compared with last year, while the Ionian Islands belong to the five regions of the country with the highest flow of incoming travel, recording one of the highest performance in the growth rate of international growth, during stays and purely travel expenses. The Ionian islands, therefore, with their rich natural environment, historical and cultural peculiarity, architecture and the presence of higher education institutions can be found in the protagonists of the thematic tourism in Greece. I would like to dwell on Article 55 of the bill and to close with it and say that it is very important for the Ionian Islands that a demand for residents and local authorities is met. The EOT Service of Inland Epirus and Ionian Islands is divided into two new services, one of which will be the EOT service of Internal Ionian Islands based in Corfu. This is a positive development, why? Because it is recognized that the Ionian Islands are characterised by different strategic communication and actions programmes, different profiles of tourists and wider different needs and demands from the region of Epirus. Furthermore, it goes without saying that in a region which is primarily part of the tourist economy and with such a range of tourist development and arrivals, there should be an EOT service at its headquarters. In conclusion, I too would like to stress that we are envisioning a development, the profits of which will be dispersed in society, a growth with respect for the natural environment and a development with respect for local cultural peculiarities. The model of tourism development that we want is a sustainable model, which at its centre, primarily, will place man and worker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. I invite Mr. Gaki to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u273	From Baki to Gaki!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u274	I see all islanders here. Tourism, islands, let's see.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u275	So, Madam President, from Baki to Gaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u276	In alphabetical order, from Vaki to Gaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u277	And a confession. Mr. Gaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u278	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a very good time that we are discussing today the draft law on the subject of tourism, the modernisation of the institutional framework and of tourism education, one day after the opening of the Academy of Merchant Navy in Kalymnos, which will bring enormous benefits to the development of an unjusted and isolated island region. To avoid consuming time, I think that Kalymnos was designated yesterday as an important landmark on the global maritime network through the maritime education provided by the Academy. Ladies and gentlemen, our priority, strategy and aim in the government is the functioning of an institutional framework supporting actions to promote the extroversion and promotion of the quality of tourism in every region, town, village and island, according to its comparative advantages. With the development of the various forms of the thematic tourism we can make our country an important international, attractive and secure destination for three hundred and sixty-five days a year, by upgrading tourist products, services and infrastructure to all kinds of thematic tourism, thus very much defining the success of our efforts for regional development and essential social cohesion. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to close this brief and general position on the issue of the bill, to note that an important step has been taken today in order to move forward with a comprehensive plan of actions for the quality development of tourism. At the same time, through these challenges and the benefits of the development of a tourism economy, based on the approaches that are fully supported by operators and professional associations of tourism, we must take advantage of the modern achievements of digital technology in innovation and communication, but also of the historical tradition of local societies, for which we are striving to stand next to them, the problems and the needs of their people. Ladies and gentlemen, the history of a place is one of the most important actors in attracting visitors. The highlightation of history is therefore an essential component of the tourist view. Today, it is another fact that shows the joy of the Dodecanese, but also the Fish can boast that they have. In this context, a great deal of intervention is made in the amendment, which is accepted by the government and declared these two islands, Kassos and Psara, as heroic islands. This is a due honor to history, memory, sacrifices of people in Kassos and Psaras in 1824. It has been a long attempt, due to the decisive contribution of the President of the Republic, Mr Prokopi Pavlopoulou, who has embraced this effort from the first moment. It is due to the effort and acceptance of our proposal by the Minister of Home Affairs, the Minister of National Defence, and also by the Minister of Tourism today who has been very happy to accept this amendment in the tourism bill. It is also due to the chronic demand and the persistence of the self-government and social and cultural actors in our region, the first and second degrees of local government, but I would like to say, to be fair, and to the very great struggles of our parliamentary space, beginning with Manos Konsolas from New Democracy, which gave him a great deal of time to pay him credit with the abrasion we have. The aim of this move is double. With our decision today, we have a special opportunity to highlight and highlight the historical events and highlight the national importance, the role and the future prospects of our island country, the Dodecanese, the political, culture and the development process. Ladies and gentlemen, voting in favour of the provision for the proclamation of Kassos and the Fishes on heroic islands does not only cover a part of national memory. The honoring of our fellow people who have been exterminated in Holocaust exaggerates it, as it gains all human worth. And here I would like to quote: the islands of Kasos and the Fishes were not in a position of defence, but on a voluntary offer they entered the national struggle for liberation. They were not in danger and were fighting, but they gave what they had and did not have in this fight of national independence. The huge destruction caused by the Turkish Egyptian fleet on the rebellious islands of Kassos and the Fishes, this unprecedented slaughter of the islanders on June 7, 1824 in Kassos and June 20, in Psara, where the same fleet, after Kassos, continued its rise, in the Aegean Sea, is an important part of our historical heritage and we must keep it engraved in our collective memory as a leading example of national resistance to all kinds of submissiveness and the power of a nation that defends its sovereignty with self-confidence and determination. The municipal councils of Kassos, Psaras, due to their great contribution to the Greek Revolution and especially to the destruction of the islands in 1824, expressing the opinion and the universal demand of their inhabitants, have been requested to qualify these two islands as "heroic islands". So, with today's amendment, a circle is awarded the due price and the memory debt is fulfilled for the incalculable price paid by Kassos and Psaras in the Greeks' struggle for freedom and independence. We can say, Minister, that today, with the acceptance of your amendment, the cyclamine in the fish is blossoming on the whole black back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u279	Thank you. Mr Kostopanagiotou, also a SYRIZA Member, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I am voting in favour of the bill. However, I think that this bill will be incomplete if it does not include what I will highlight below. I am a member of the one-sided Fokidas, who has the navel of the earth, the Delphis. In the Delphi, there's no doctor. The second to visit the museum in Greece is the Delphi Museum. The museum sends 500,000 euros a month to the Ministry of Culture. It's a gateway. We have the Parnassou ski centre. We have the cruise ships, which are approaching Itea and with coaches in twenty minutes are in the museum. It's the most mountainous area in Greece. We have Parnassus, Gonna, Bardusia. The ambulance, if it's in Gravia, Musanica, anywhere, can take two hours to go and pick up the museum visitor who has a problem. And I'm talking about emergencies. There's no doctor at all and we're spreading internationally when one of the museum's visitors has a problem with urgency. She can wait two hours until she's transferred to Amphissa Hospital. A solution needs to be found on the issue of tourism and health to deal with emergencies at the gates of the country. If we don't do that, the bill is missing. I'm talking about the Delphis I know very well what's going on. As Mr Igoumenides said, however, in his suggestion, all the gates of tourism in our country must be manned with adequate health coverage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u281	Thank you. Mr. Aggenakis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u282	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Greek tourism is a key pillar of our economy. It's the vehicle to get the longest growth in our country. Tourism is the most important chapter for the Greek economy, as it represents more than 20% of GDP, more than 23% of total employment, which is also more than EUR 13 billion for the national economy. At the same time, it also contributes to improving Greece's injured image and abroad. This is why New Democracy in its previous period of governance, in the period 2012-2014, implemented an integrated national tourism strategy, which was implemented at three main levels: legislative, development and communication. And we have now achieved a spectacular increase in tourism, both at costs and naturally at arrivals. This upward course continued, however, as expected, and in 2015. In fact, during this period, we introduced Law 4276/2014 to simplify the operating procedures of tourist and tourist infrastructures and the specific forms of tourism. After all, in this draft law, in which I was pleased to be rapporteur at the time, we had also regulated a number of important issues, such as the formulation of the conditions which will allow the development of quality and high economic performance of tourism and a number of other improvements. The main topics relating to thematic tourism had been regulated by Law 4276. So what is the necessity of the draft law we are debating today? What's his feasibility? What are the shortcomings or, if you like, what are the malfunctions that may have been created by Law 4276? Let's see them. And if problems were created, we'd agree to improve them. Ladies and gentlemen, the tourism sector can be a field of political convergence, but also of understanding. The Minister brought in a bill containing arrangements for thematic tourism, tourism education and strengthening entrepreneurship in tourism. However, this is clearly done at the theoretical level. At the substance and content level, it does not deal with any of the major problems of the thematic tourism, nor does it create any conditions for its development. This draft law does not include anything essential for thematic tourism, beyond definitions. This, however, does not constitute a substantial institutional intervention. It does not solve the major and important problems of tourism. On the contrary, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, although it found the ground bent, not only did nothing essential for tourism to go further, but it has acted improperly against every investment effort, every initiative in the tourism sector. Thus, in 2015, tourism moved at the acquired speed of the previous years, 2016, while travel revenues decreased by 6.5%, although visitors increased by almost 8%, while the average per capita expenditure - and this is a very worrying development - was reduced to 471 euros from 541 euros, which was in 2015. As has happened throughout the Greek economy, tourism suffers the consequences of overtaxation. You increased VAT in the stay from 6.5% to 13%. Increase VAT on the focus from 13% to 24%. You also increased VAT on transport from 13% to 24%. You increased the tax rate for businesses from 26% to 29%. You abolished the reduced rates of VAT on the islands. You have charged a residence tax that has already been in force since the beginning of 2018 in hotels and rented rooms. The government's tax policy brought a very important blow to tourism. And, of course, we must not forget the tragic manipulations of our government in the immigration - refugee, which have undermined the tourist movement on the islands of the eastern Aegean. These, then, Minister, are the problems of Greek tourism and not the definitions, in general, of specific forms of tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, tourism is one of the few sectors of the national economy which, despite the difficult times of the crisis, is still competitive worldwide. For our side tourism still remains the main driving force for the growth of the economy and, of course, the exit from the recession. Our vision is to make Greece the most powerful tourist brand name in Europe. The strategic importance of tourism for the Greek economy strengthens the need for a political commitment, but also supports the development of a new growth model that will lead to a modern Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Madam President. This includes five axes for tourism: First, attraction of investments. The tourism sector can attract investments of more than EUR 20 billion over the next five years. Second, tax policy. The tax rates launched over the last two years must return as soon as possible to competitive levels. Third, spatial planning. Our country urgently needs a new spatial planning plan. It is not possible for important investment projects today to be null and naturally vulnerable to any recourse to the S.H.E. Fourthly, the creation of a product portfolio with high added value, such as cultural tourism, conference tourism, city tourism, medical tourism, support for maritime tourism and cruise. Fifth, promotion and promotion of tourist products. EOT's got a lot of experience. But there must be close cooperation with the private sector on the promotion of our country. And, of course, the importance of the human factor is crucial. We need a high level of education and training for people, professionals and, of course, tourist staff at all levels. So we must move in this direction, Minister, and not in definitions and general descriptions, as you are doing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u283	Mrs Vagonakis has the floor. I would ask you to be brief, because we then enter the parliamentary delegations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Madam President. My dear colleague, in a persuasive sense of what you said earlier, your numbers are disproved and your numbers are strict. Today we are discussing an extremely important bill, which I know is the case for tourists, and in particular for thematic tourism, a bill that comes to regulate a lot of promising but unregulated landscape, a bill which attempts to lay rules and based on them, to enable businesses involved in thematic tourism to be accredited. There is in Article 3 a definition of what thematic tourism and its characteristics are. I will not go into that. The bill also mentions the principles of thematic tourism, which at least I consider to be important. It's the principle of sustainability. We are talking about tourism development that is balanced, social, cultural, economic, which stimulates employment and highlights tourist destinations on the basis of their comparative advantages and cultural identity. There is the principle of accessibility, which is very important. There is a need for the carrying capacity, i.e. the tourism that develops on the basis of the bearing capacity of each place, without destroying the natural or structured environment. I'd say that in contrast sometimes with mass tourism. There is the principle of safety in tourism. And what seemed to me is that the principle of safety is mentioned in both the businesses that provide this tourist product and the visitors to comply with the safety rules. For me something very important is also the principle of cooperation between economic activities, namely combining products and services from different sectors of the economy, such as agrifood and processing, the creation of added value and the integration of local products and services into the wider tourist chain. I will not go into what forms of thematic tourism are. Refer to Articles 4 to 22. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot imagine any other part of the world in which tourism can develop more competitively. Multilaterality, extensive protected areas, natural relief, geomorphology, rich cultural references, intangible cultural heritage, gastronomy and, above all, human presence and hospitality create our own peculiarity and is an advantage in a constantly growing product, such as thematic tourism. The trend that exists in the modern world and is sought by an important and demanding piece of visitors is the authenticity of a place and the search for experiences. And that's exactly the part we're talking about today. It is also precisely this part of the tourist product that responds to the development model that we have chosen and followed, namely the sustainable development that supports and is based on the environment, which makes use of our comparative advantages, which supports and is based on human resources, which creates a great added value that is distributed through the interaction of economic activities in more parts of the Greek economy. So, when we talk about productive reconstruction and holistic development, we can only talk about the thematic tourism which, with claims, develops next to the rest of the tourism product. I would add, in fact, that the most important advantage of thematic tourism is the fact that it can grow three hundred and sixty-five days a year. So, when we talk about an extension of tourist season, we are actually talking about these forms of tourism. I would like to make two, three comments on some of the points in the bill. In my opinion, Minister, we must become more flexible and effective. I have followed the effort of the FYA to get out on rural tourism, which is a matter that we have been discussing for decades. There was a delay - I think - and here, in my opinion, things need to run faster, much more quickly than, in implementing what is present in the bill, many ministerial decisions and CSRs are needed. Secondly, the debate on gastronomy tourism is taking place on Mediterranean food. Since gastronomy also gains ground in visitors' preferences, rather than talking about Mediterranean cuisine, which refers to the wider Mediterranean region, is it more appropriate to speak, for example, about Cretan food, given that it brings global interest in nutritionists and gastronomicists from the past? Shouldn't we get lost in general when we have a gun as powerful as the brand name of the Cretan diet? Thirdly - and I am ending with this, Madam President - on the security of the theme of tourism, including businessmen and visitors, I would like to say the following: every year in the mountains of Chania, but also throughout Crete, tourists are being lost, EMAK is being mobilised, volunteers and so on. In Chania Prefecture last year, we had thirty-eight rescues. Unfortunately, many tourists do not pay attention to warnings. And there was a case where while all the local rescue forces had been mobilised and the international emergency signal had been sent, and so on, we finally found the visitors to be airborne elsewhere and take their baths. So should we consider having a premium, or somehow a financial burden in these cases? In other countries, I think there is provision for this, while this money could be made available to improve paths or improve Coreper's equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, too. Now we are starting with the parliamentary representatives. The first is Mr. Kefaliannis from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Madam President. I'd like you to show a little tolerance in my time. Let me begin with an introductory remark. I would agree with the previous speaker that the right name of the Mediterranean cuisine is, in fact, the Cretan, because if you look at all the medical studies, they are actually referring to studies carried out on the diet of the Cretan population. So I think that, Mrs Vayonakis, we can agree on this and promote it, be removed as "the Mediterranean diet" and replace it with the term "Cretan diet", or if you like, the term "Greek diet". We are now going to some introductory remarks on topicality, as usual. We saw yesterday, for example, that an OECD report was published, where our country has unfortunately proved to be a champion in indirect taxes. In fact, the previous speakers have also tabled this report, and colleagues from the New Democracy have tabled it. It is not something we were expecting from the OECD, of course, to come in with its report to testify to us. It is something that Greek citizens have been experiencing for the last four years. In particular, in order to come to tourism as well, Minister, you know very well that on your own government - but as a whole I will talk about the government - VAT doubled at night from 6.5% to 13%, VAT was almost doubled from 13% to 24%, the tax on business increased for the first time from 26% to 29%, the tax on dividends increased from 10% to 15%. And as you know very well, HISPIA has increased as far as business in public spaces is concerned. Six new taxes or tax increases made on your own governance are the achievement of your policy and unfortunately removes valuable resources from the development path of an area, such as tourism, which could actually have a much better effect than what it presents today. Ladies and gentlemen, you will also allow me to report - I think this concerns us all and it is a national issue - in the unacceptable statements we have heard from the Prime Minister of Skopje. He spoke about a so-called Macedonian minority in Greece, about teaching the so-called Macedonian language as well in Greece. Unfortunately, the fears of the New Democracy were confirmed when we were opposed to the Prespecies Agreement, and we said that, instead of reducing or reducing the seamlessness of the neighbouring state, it will not only increase, but we see that for the first time, there are issues that no one thought of putting them before. Unfortunately, these are matters which come through the agreement that you signed as government, Mr Tsipras, Mr Kammenos, Mr Kotzias, and we see that not only do they not help in good neighbourly relations, but that our neighbours have demolished, and in fact for the first time, they are manifesting astronomical extremisms on these issues, which, unfortunately, is what you are calling on you to overthrow. We are, of course, afraid that when two months later this agreement comes to Parliament's ratification, you will not do so. We, however, even now call on you, ladies and gentlemen, each by voting to prevent this possibility from happening, because we see that there are problems, which, on the day following the ratification of this agreement, will not be able to overturn them. You will also allow me to make a reference to the unheard of that letter for the first time by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - national mail - from 2005 until today because - look - the outgoing Minister, Mr Kotzias, did not make available the EUR 150,000 budget in order to have an upgrade on the server, to be maintained. Also, it is unheard that there was no backup in this mail. In order to understand the Greeks and Greek women who are following us, the electronic mail of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the last thirteen years has now been lost and that is because the various government actors who were responsible have not been able to proceed to the necessary maintenance procedures. This is what you understand, ladies and gentlemen, that it creates a bad image abroad, practical issues - I will not go to wicked thoughts on why this correspondence has been lost - and, of course, even national security issues are being created. It is a very serious matter and in any case it should be investigated. As far as the bill is concerned, Minister, we believe that, unfortunately, after a long delay, you have brought in a text that is very high in hand. In our opinion, this is not even a draft law, but a report of ideas, together with a series of irreversible thoughts and attempts to regulate matters. Unfortunately, we have also heard you in your committee. You act as if there was no precedent, as if you came as government and suddenly tourism took up. As you do not know, in the previous years, before you take over, tourism has already had an upward trend, which in many cases is the result of specific factors relating to the geopolitical conditions of the region and, of course, to a systematic work carried out by the previous government and the previous Minister. Of course - to help you - you must look at specific legislation, such as, for example, 4179/2013 or even 4276/2014. There, indeed, if you do, you would see how the procedures are simplified, the regulation of specific forms of tourism, the attraction of investment in tourism, transparency, orderly operation, accountability and, of course, the flexibility of structures. So you only need to look at these texts to understand what good legislation means. And, of course, other colleagues have pointed it out to you in this Chamber, Minister, that you include so many provisions that need a ministerial decision, which is, in fact, an inappropriate law, which increases bureaucracy, which is dysfunctional and we will simply see on the path that tourism operators will face very great difficulty. As I said before, the increase in tourism, Minister, is the result of other factors due to geopolitical developments in the region. You also do not see that the absence of investments in integrated tourist development and the absence of an organised country house market unfortunately exacerbate the seasonality of arrivals. You forget, for example, that the absence of spatial planning guidelines for tourism and the anachronistic context of land use are exacerbating legal uncertainty to potential investors. You have not been concerned about the large number of non-performing loans from tourist businesses, which not only discourages the attraction of new investments, but also jeopardises the viability of existing businesses. Of course, as I said at the beginning of my speech, Minister, unfortunately on your own behalf, there has been an overtaxation of companies with direct and indirect taxes. If you want to see the national strategy for tourism, I think that the operators of tourism you are talking about have told you that five main challenges need to be addressed. First basic challenge, attracting investment. Second basic challenge, competitive tax policy. Thirdly, the creation of a modern tourist portfolio. Fourthly, an effective marketing and a fifth, a rationalization of the tourist market. With this bill, Minister, unfortunately, at best in cases, you deal with about one and a half of these five key issues, which have been raised on several occasions by the operators of tourism with which you are working together. I am referring, of course, to the organisation of some tourism market issues and half, with which you are oppressed, is the country's tourist portfolio. And I say half, Minister, because in the first part of the bill there is a record and an attempt to define activities that can form forms of thematic tourism. However, one question arises here. Does it value, for example, the country's tourism product the express forecast and recording of forms of thematic tourism? The answer is, no, ladies and gentlemen, because I think the Ministry has fallen into a trap. There are forms of thematic tourism that, because of their wide range, cannot be defined or described precisely, that is to say, no minimum standards can be laid down as to how they are to be exercised, which ensure a minimum level of service provided. See, for example, what a problem arises with the arbitrary and universal subjection of outdoor leisure activities in the category "sport recreation". While the term "recreational outdoor tourism" is more in line with the term used at European and local level, but also in the business practice of our country, it is here that recreational tourism is confused with sports tourism, which aims at sporting discrimination rather than entertainment. Madam Minister, behind this merger of recreation and sport there are a number of problems, such as the financing of these enterprises through the ESDP. While recreational services are part of the financing of this package, sports activities are not part of it. So, what if a Greek recreational operation wants to claim European funds? I now come to the part of the organization and operation of the tourist market, in which I would like to make a comment on tourism education. In 2014, the company ‘MCKINSEY’, in collaboration with SETE proceeded with a survey of the needs of tourist businesses in Greece. It has therefore emerged from this investigation that, despite the generalised picture of the competence of qualified personnel, there are unfortunately still very great deficiencies in the skills and skills that can be addressed. We, here, Minister, will add the fragmentation of competence and the lack of coordination on tourism education, which has been scattered into three ministries, namely the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Labour with the Professional Schools of Learning. We will add the absence of uniformity in the curriculum, the short-term exercise in public IEK, the fact that practice does not go hand in hand with theoretical training, but only at the end of the course and, above all, that wage costs of practical training are financed only by state and European resources. In fact, companies have no vital interest in hiring the young people they have invested. That is why you see, Minister, that freelance trainees should be rotated without companies going to these recruitments. I come very briefly to the amendments too. With regard to Amendment No 1825/10, we will be negative. As far as 1821/7 is concerned, we will also be negative, because we consider it to be a continuation of the distorting recruitment picture and procedure of the 3K notice, which, as we pointed out in this Chamber, has been wrong from the outset by means of an unprecedented government decision to recruit staff from the provisional ranking tables and not the final ones, as is usually the case in the recruitment procedures. As far as 1823 is concerned, we shall vote 'the present'. As for 1827, we disagree about the reasons that it greatly lowers the misunderstandings about the application for a casino licence. It also leaves the competence of the authorities and national committees to regulate this and, unfortunately, a distorting picture is being created of the opacity and lack of serious consultation that has been made on this draft law. As far as 1828 is concerned, we will be 'at present'. At ministerial 1819 with a special 13, we'll be positive. As far as Members of Parliament are concerned, in 1816, although we had every positive prediction to move forward in voting on this amendment, we will ultimately be negative, because we do not think there is a first-stage separation. The entire property is being arrested, and that creates suspicions of opacity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Kefaliannis, you will tell them at the time of the vote. Don't eat the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u288	It is customary for it to be recorded, Madam President. I'll be done. Three amendments are, Madam President. We are positive at number 1817/3. We are also positive at number 1819/5. Finally, we are positive at number 1820/6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u289	Thank you. Mr. Eliopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Madam President. It's a great celebration today. I would like to wish for many years to the Chief of the Nationalist Movement, Mr Nicholas Michaloliakos and our Navy, which for so many years, tens of thousands of years, has been fighting for our homeland to remain free so that we can be and express our views here today. Happy birthday, then, to our Navy! I would like to say that anyone who forgets his story is forced to relive it, so I would also like this to be recorded today in the Minutes of the House: As today the battle of the Makriyannis Spatial Constitution began. Fortunately these rangers saved our homeland from the communist domination where we saw in the other states that were imposed in the coming years by World War II what ended up. Another issue concerns the criminal organisation in this Parliament, the PASOK. It's one of the criminal organizations, because the other parties there too will end up. So, forensics, PASOK and we would like to ask the following question: how many convicted ministers do you consider a party to be a criminal organisation? When's the state funding cut? When is the leadership of this party closed in prison, which has proved to be final, a week, a month, a month, we see PASOK government officials being convicted of serious felony? We also have the provocative attitude of Macedonians, Albanians and Turks, who have found us in weakness and each day demonstrate their provocativeness. We heard Zafe the other day, Mr. Tsipras' best friend, saying that Macedonian language will be taught - that there is, of course, no clear language - in our country. Don't try, gentlemen of SYRIZA, get them together. He said it. Watch the video to understand exactly what this politician said - and I don't know what else - friend Zaf. All the rights of the Greeks of Northern Epirus have been violated in Northern Epirus for years. Of course, with the tragic death of hero Constantine Katsifa, all of this has come to the fore, and even with his funeral and now with his memorial of the day, on Saturday, the Albanians have increased their provocativeness. The solution is one - we have said - and it is clear: Immediate expulsion of all Albanians in response to those who have committed the slightest crime in our country. For starters, of course. We're talking about tourism. And in order to come to the bill, I would like to present to the Minutes a picture of 'THENEWSPAPER.GR'. It's from the Argalastis Health Center where there's a sign they posted there next to a bead. Will you tell me what this has to do with tourism? This sign is English and says: "To help the Argalatis Health Center you can offer whatever you want in our cash box or anything you have in medical material". [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In 2018, then, we beg the tourists who will visit the Argalas Health Center to drop their podium, because we cannot meet our obligations. We have health centres throughout Greece, which in winter - we have asked dozens of questions about these issues all these years - do not have the basics, i.e. they do not have heating, they do not have medical equipment and yet we want to develop our tourism. Of course, we are not at all opposed to the development of tourism, which is indeed one of the pillars of economic development, along with industry, industry, agricultural production, livestock production. However, we have a number of issues which are not solved in this bill either. And I would like to read from a report made by the Association of Hoteliers in Magnesia. And do not you of the JRC, nor of the SYRIZA who you play left-handed, because those Magnesia hoteliers - and every region - are people who have a family business that is employed in their family, and even a few more people there, and of course, have to deal with unfair competition through the well-known methods of booking accommodation, supposedly accommodation, homes. And this competition lies in the fact that those who rent on these platforms their apartments and homes do not have clearly professional services and have much less operating criteria. And I'd like you to see that, Minister. I will also present the relevant report. I'll testify to it for the Minutes and give it to the Minister. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As they write here, they pay clearly fewer taxes. There's no night tax. Night tax, increased VAT, carpets imposed on tourist businesses, imposed on hotel establishments is not that they operate at the expense of hotel units, operating at the expense of our country's tourism, because our country is automatically being uncompetitive in relation to at least its neighbours, who have lower taxes and do not have all these carpets. And we are talking about Bulgaria, Turkey, Cyprus, Italy, etc., in which, to say people's, the state is cheaper than what it calls for by people of tourism in relation to our country and thus more competitive tourism is. Clearly we are also in favour of the thematic tourism, which is the main body of the bill. We can here in our country develop alternative tourism, rural activities, such as a new type of tourism, cavalry tourism, which can be supported throughout Greece, divestment archaeological tourism - and I mention these forms of thematic tourism, because all others have mentioned - divestment tourism, religious tourism. It is quality tourism, in a few words, which can bring great value to our country's tourism product, because we like a small country cannot offer mass tourism. We need to offer quality services so that they prefer us for something good, something special, that they will want to experience those who visit our country. You, of course, prefer another theme tourism, the one of illegal immigrants, who have flooded our entire country. You've been sowing them all over Greece, you're giving them a free stay, light, water, phone, you're giving them a card to shop to close the mouths of local society as if they were spending these quadruffs in this society. That's the tourism. Mr. Bakoyannis, of the New Democracy, who wants to come down and for the mayor of Athenians, was the first to make hot spots in Central Greece and even to a historian - perhaps the most famous one with Marathon - a place on the whole planet in the Thermopylae, given one of the greatest battles in history. You'll tell me why I mention the Thermopylae. I say this because there was an area that could be shaped and served by health tourism, as mentioned in the bill. He could serve and deliver tens of millions of dollars to our homeland. We're not even talking about history because you don't care. But we are talking to you with euros that are of interest to you. There is a source of thousands of years that serves health tourism and you could have made it a hotel that served these tourists. On the other hand, Mr Bakoyannis preferred to make it a resort for illegal immigrants. Obviously with his candidacy in the Municipality of Athens, he wants to make Athens an endless hot spot. He may have other ideas like this for the capital of our country. I'm going to close up with Mrs. Duru, who has succeeded in relentlessly drowning people on land and burning people at sea. He's a moral autocratic, and he'll prove it, too. So it has the courage to go down to the elections, and we in response to all this Islamation have Ilias Panayotaros and Ilias Cassidiaris coming down - and I say this here because we do not have another step - in regional and municipal elections, respectively, to re-establish our country, so that Attica can be cleaned up, so that Athens can clean up, so that Greece can clean up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u291	Mr. Megalamustakas has the floor, and then we close with Mr. Ursouzidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Madam President. I wouldn't take the floor today. But the reason I got up to this is to show that we are not zero in the Central Association and that we are carefully controlling all the bills. We are changing the intention and we will vote for'residents' and, in principle, we will vote 'yes' in this bill, and that is why we have seen that quite right steps have been taken by the Ministry of Tourism. However, under no circumstances is that enough. Tourism has developed in recent years, but at a rate that we do not satisfy. Because if we consider what is happening in neighbouring countries, there should be even more growth, we should see tourists in a longer period of time and not just in summer months, as is happening mainly in Greece. We therefore see positive measures taken for many years to develop other types of tourism, such as thematic tourism. The positive effect with our country is probably its geographical character. So a man can come in, start from Evros and have turned all over Greece in very few days, short distances. It may begin to see the beauty of nature, in Evros Delta, to watch the birds or other animals of the aquatic habitat, to go for diving in Samothraki, to see the old city in Xanthi, the historical tourism, to see museums, to go fishing, as today the fishing tourism in Kavala has developed, to pass through the Serres, to see the cave of Alistrati, if only Tymvos Kastas, so that we can use this archaeological tourism as well. He could go to Halkidiki to see the nice places, go to Kilkis riding. We have too much to give, but to give them we must make them attractive. When you find yourself at sea from the border of Bulgaria you have to go through Thessaloniki, and there should be a road to link them directly - which has not taken place, despite the pressures that the current government has accepted, but also the previous one from the opposition parties, as well as we have asked ourselves about this road - there is not only legislation that regulates tourism. Our Greece must be developed in all areas, so that not only can there be roads and airports to go easily - which we are very behind - but we must also have a tax environment that will allow investment in tourists, in the focus, in what can give us an impetus to get out of this crisis, which is not done. What you are doing is telling us your intention, the good intention of developing some things. It is only with wishes that this cannot be done. That is why we are asking for cooperation between all the ministries, of course, by recognising the right attitude that exists from the Ministry of Tourism, so that we can give the world more easily what we have, because we are very lucky to have this legacy. We can develop church tourism, historical tourism. There are areas and branches of tourism that we cannot touch, because there are no structures that will promote them. We have not made the necessary preparations so that we can support them and highlight them. There are archaeological sites that unfortunately collapse. They grow grass and moss in their stones and tiles. Not all of this is solved with intent. That would be good if you were opposition and said 'when we become government, we will do one or the other', which is not happening today. You're government. I heard your rapporteur say that this bill has been late and that it should have been tens of years ago. You are three years old and you know very well that tourism is the main pillar on which the Greek economy will be supported along with others such as the agricultural sector, such as the exploitation of the workforce and, above all, the scientific potential that goes abroad. In fact, if you had a project that would unify or bring together all these pillars that we should exploit, then the results for our economy would be amazing. We could have gotten out of this crisis long ago. You're saying you've taken us out of the memoirs a hundred days ago. But we haven't taken advantage of all this. I am well aware that in recent years the use of tourism has been in the dark, but that does not justify you too. In order to develop sporting tourism, we need to take advantage of sports facilities. In Serres we have a closed swimming pool built since 2004 and a closed gym that should have been built in 2004. They rot and fall. We see the Olympic facilities in Athens in a very bad state. How do you want to develop tourism only with this bill? So you have to do a combination job. We're talking about historical tourism, and you don't show up our monuments. We're talking about environmental tourism. I am speaking with examples from my place because Serres are gifted, just like all of Greece. If you come to the port of Kirkin, you'll freak out. I'm just talking, but I'm delivering the words of my fellow citizens. This is not how growth in thematic tourism comes under any circumstances. You should create a totalitarian plan which will finally bring the ministers to a table in this country to resolve the problems that afflict this country. We are very lucky - I repeat - that we live in Greece, which has so many places to show such monuments. If we want to be worthy of all this, we must act seriously, with the political benefit of the political parties in general aside, with the only aim of coming and showing all this and attracting people so that we do not have tourism similar to a large city, as it is today. It would have had to be twelve months a year for Greece to be flooded by tourists and not only the large tourist centres that are anticipated until today, but even the simplest village. Because all the parties and all the residents of this country - the hospitable residents of this country - have something to give. They are all Greek ambassadors and you should act accordingly so that we all can do so together. That is why the Centroon Union, in wanting to show its sympathy to this great cause, votes 'yes' in the first place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u293	New Democracy MP Andreas Koutsoubas seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 21-12-2018 to 30-12-2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u294	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Madam Minister, will you speak of the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u295	Yeah, of course, I'll talk right after.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u296	Mr. Ursuzidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u297	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill seeking to strengthen tourism, particularly tourism. But we already have some results from previous years compared with last year of 2017. The results are positive and very encouraging, and this is obviously due to the country's tradition of tourism, to the people who move the strings - I would say - around this place, to the prudent management of the relevant ministry, in order to try to improve the situation and coordinate the efforts made by people who move around. In 2017, therefore, 30 million international increases were recorded in the country. In 2018, it is expected to increase and reach about 33 million. We had a 9% increase compared with 2016 in the tourist movement. In revenue, the increase was 10.5%. The tourism sector absorbed 3 billion euros. More than three hundred fifty investment projects in hotels than four stars have been licensed in the last three years. Overall, the direct and indirect contribution of tourism to Greek GDP for 2017 reached 35 billion euros, i.e. about 20% of GDP comes from tourism. The tourism industry accounts for 24.8% of employment. In other words, in the area of unemployment, the country has been able to make a spectacular contribution, I would say. In fact, the industry contract for hotel workers, the largest industrial contract in force in the country, with a hundred and fourteen thousand workers, is an important deposit for the rest of the industry. In this draft law, therefore, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, the aim is to strengthen the institutional framework governing tourism, on the one hand, and, on the other, to implement national and regional tourism policy strategies. The first and main step of the bill is the creation of a global framework for thematic tourism and specific forms of tourism. The proposed provisions are based on the principle of safety in tourism, on the principle of the quality of the high level of infrastructure and services, and define the basic concepts of the thematic tourism, namely rural tourism as described in Article 5 to six categories: agriculture, wine tourism, eco-tourism, tour tourism, geotourism, fisheries. Article 10 describes the provisions concerning sports tourism, Article 11 with air tourism, Article 12 with maritime tourism, Article 13 with cultural tourism, Article 14 with gastronomic tourism, Article 15 with religious and pilgrimage tourism and Article 16 with conference tourism. It therefore focuses on each subject separately in order to develop all those actions in order to further develop the figures that I have mentioned. The operator, the islander, with the discernible tapera and the culture that has been created has helped to develop tourism in our country, this is known and renowned, all the islands that are sinking in the summer. This is, of course, about things that he has traditionally inspired and can carry in a unique way. So, apart from the bill in mind, we had to propose other ways to keep this world on the islands. This was in 2017 with the transport equivalent, which has also been delayed for too many years, to be implemented in our homeland and is about the injustice that the islander was subject to in its transport, but also to the transport of products. This restores things and creates yet another incentive, these absolutely necessary people to live in the places where they were born and grow in a way where the state recognises this effort and contributes. I also have to stress that, in view of the draft law, it is attempting to solve complex problems that the previous governments have not even touched on for so many years: Let us say that the infrastructure of the country, where airports are observed, which cannot meet the demand there is, and this does the bill in mind, proposing concrete upgrades, at the stage when the spatial plan for tourism is being drawn up, which is also missing. Rules are laid down for the operation of tourist businesses, tourist agencies and the profession of tour guides. The placement of tourist ports is progressing rapidly, the modernisation of all regional services relating to tourism and other very many problems which, I repeat, have been solved for many years or at least the state has taken action on these issues. As I said at the beginning of my speech, it is expected that in 2018 it will also be the fourth consecutive year with very good results in relation to the figures that I mentioned. This is the case and, I repeat, mainly because people who handle tourism are experienced, have a culture and can meet these requirements, but I think in recent years it is also the image that our country has given in relation to the management of the refugee crisis. The beetle from ancient times was the citizen who appealed to a sacred place to seek immunity. Our country has responded to the lodgers who came in a time of crisis, in fact, in as much a way as possible. I do not think there is any better advertising for our country than the image of children coming out of the Aegean Sea and reaching the land. So I think that those, like some colleagues, who have expressed themselves here in relation to people who are immigrants or who have come as refugees in our homeland in a very extreme, bad way, would say, if you ask any sensible person: What is the image of a country that saves lives, saves babies from real danger, in relation to another country that raises up walls and fuels these people? I don't even think there's a matter of any sensible people weighing these two behaviors. I think our country was vindicated and the cops raised it as a sanctuary, just as it was in antiquity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr. Ursouzidis. Look, let me explain, my shift ends at 17.30. I have a miserable obligation, and I don't even know if I'm going to give the Minister time. There's no way anyone can talk. Madam Minister, you haven't spoken all day. Now you have to say everything?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u299	Madam President, can we give an opinion on the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u300	The procedure is foreseeable. There's nothing in question. Parliamentary representatives are closed. The Minister will now speak. What else?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u301	I would like you to clarify the issue of secondary education.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u302	There's no question of dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u303	How isn't there? The procedure provides for secondary periods.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u304	We have cut the time of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u305	We agreed that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u306	If the rest of the rapporteurs do not want to be second-guessed, it does not mean that you cannot give the floor to me to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u307	Time has been cut for both parliamentarians and parliamentarians, and the secondaryity of the rapporteurs has been cut. Mrs Kouturas, you have the floor and everything you can say in this time, because we have the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u308	It's not simple, Madam President. I have not spoken, because I had to leave time to speak and place everyone in a bill, which I have to give too many answers. And we said from the beginning - and before you come - that I want at least 20 minutes. If you tell me that in ten minutes I have to finish, how am I going to answer all my colleagues and how am I going to answer all the questions?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u309	You're right, but I don't know what happened, what went wrong in the process, and we've reached this hour. What can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u310	The amendment tabled proposes an extension of ski conditions, given that many problems have arisen, not only in terms of set-aside, but also in view of the fact that ski resorts are existing, some legislative provisions also have to be made so that they can be granted the special operating mark and operate legally. So we're giving them another extension until the framework is settled. The other two are about the Ministry's Independent Office, which in fact we saw in application that it should have a head and that it cannot operate with a mere employee. Something is being abolished that they saw that in practice it cannot be done, because a law that was in conflict had been amended. It's the cuff of the past and how some governments legislated. So we had to regulate this as well. Now I would like to say that as regards the personal difference, this proposed provision provides for the granting of a personal difference between officials and employment of public law, private law of indefinite duration of the Ministry of Tourism, who have been transferred by the supervised body of EOT. Automatically, then, they lost this personal difference - I overreacted it as they say - and we had two speed employees. So here we come and restore injustice. As far as the EOT Office is concerned, we have to give him something that had not been foreseen because the Commonwealth of Independent States changed, with Georgia falling under the office of Russia. It is also a technical thing that emerged. Now, as far as the EOT is concerned, the proposed provision meets the needs of public relations programs of the Central Office for 2019 and the External Offices so that we can speed up all these familiarization trips, events, workshops, Roadshows webns, etc. and to meet certain needs arising from the very important responsibilities undertaken by all the offices of the EOT abroad, since the increase in tourist current from these countries and to Greece is spectacular. In order to respond to the shelves, they had to have more flexibility. This amendment has been passed there by the Independent Public Procurement Authority and has expressed its positive opinion. Now, shall I move to my main speech from Step One, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u311	Mrs. Kundura, start normally, just confine yourself to this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u312	Ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been said. I'll try to be short. The truth is that today the draft "Thematic tourism - specific forms of tourism - arrangements for modernising the institutional framework in the field of tourism and tourism education". It is therefore in force and formed with all operators of tourism through wide and extensive consultation and cooperation with the fourteen co-operating ministries. That is why I am very concerned that the government's success in tourism is so disturbing. Tourism has broken all the records over the last four years, with twice the growth rate of the World Tourism Organization's average growth in arrivals and revenues and supports the Greek economy as far as possible. And this success of the government is so disturbing that some people are going against - with all the productive operators of tourism and against the development of the sector - in these arrangements that we are bringing, which unfortunately over the days of the previous government and while they knew the needs indifferently, had not set them up and held hostage in the bureaucracy of all operators with one - deliberately I think - in a regulatorial context. Well, it's sad because when you don't have any political arguments to oppose the very successful work of tourism, you ask the Minister of Tourism to become a deputy minister. In other words, to regulate all issues that have been afflicting Greece for decades and have been afflicted by cleanliness, taxation, infrastructure, spatial planning, which has been afflicted by S.A. of your own fault, since you are accustomed to legislating manually and fragmentally. And not to forget to say that our own governments delivered us a bankrupt and neglected country, and we are today the ones working for the productive reconstruction of our country. So I would like to thank all of you for supporting this bill, which has been awaited and embraced by the entire tourism sector and which is universally accepted. This bill opens new horizons to the development of Greek tourism for the years to come. The thematic tourism products have spectacularly supported our strategic goal of tourism three hundred and sixty-five days a year. And we did this because not only was summer prolonged with a huge increase, but we increased winter tourism by 40%. They also contribute to the promotion of new Greek destinations, to the creation of new businesses and overall to regional development and to the strengthening of every local society. Only through a new and innovative institutional framework for thematic tourism can Greek tourism remain competitive, become even more attractive in a demanding, constantly evolving global travel market. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, is competitive. And all the large groups, the tour operators abroad, have repeatedly stated that their problem is not taxation. They want quality, stability, cooperation with the Ministry of Tourism and the EOT, which unfortunately even before we take over, not only did we not have this cooperation, but there was even indifference and they have declared it publicly here in Greece. In addition, these three years we have made too many legislative provisions and amendments to solve very serious issues immediately. Because our priority was to work on developing tourism, because our Government is the first government to recognise the value of tourism and its decisive role as a powerful driving force for the national economy, for regional and local development and for social prosperity. We have designed and implemented a single national and regional tourism policy since 2015, and our strategy in four years has added new dynamics to our tourism product. We have set the core of our tourism policy sustainable and balanced tourism development. We promoted new Greek destinations on the tourist map. We brought tourists into regions where there was no tourism. We have widened and enriched our tourist offer with new thematic products. We have finally achieved this extension of the tourist season, which was a matter of years, and we have done so. We made new openings in the traditional and new markets, where we increased the tourist streams of visitors of high purchasing power. With our strategy we reinstated Greece on the world map as the top world tourist destination of three hundred and sixty-five days a year and despite the unfavourable conditions, geopolitical instability, the refugee crisis, the unstable environment and all that has been faced in security matters throughout Europe, we have achieved the highest performance in the history of Greek tourism in international arrivals and revenues in all tourist sizes. You say "There was no tourism before?" Of course there was. In 2014 we closed with twenty-four million. Greece had an increase of less than the average of global tourism growth. We from 2015 onwards brought an increase in incoming tourism of 35% and in absolute numbers of about 9 million, double the growth from the average of global tourism. This is our success too. In 2018, then, is the fourth record year, it is the golden year of Greek tourism, with a new arrival record that will touch the thirty-three million visitors. Also, the revenues have kept our economy and have supported it as far as possible and were also decisive. In 2018 we will have over 2 billion revenues in relation to 2017. Some colleagues have tried to devalue the investments made over the last four years. Let me remind you that in the tourism sector in 2015, received by the Ministry of Tourism, there were only 12 applications for investment projects throughout Greece. We in the last four years have had almost four hundred investment projects, fourteen, five-five resorts throughout Greece, complex tourist accommodations, special tourist infrastructures, submitted not only to the Ministry of Tourism but also to the development law many of them, and we have for 2018 twenty-six thousand new beds from the implementation of these projects throughout Greece. The international groups we invited have turned their interest in Greece as the most attractive opportunity for business investment and consider Greece a very dynamicly growing tourist destination. The unprecedented tourist leap we have achieved is reflected not only in the results of the tourist industry's businesses that have significantly increased their turnover and profitability but also in a number of other productive sectors directly or indirectly linked to tourism, such as focusing, food, transport, trade, construction, the purchase of real estate. A number of official figures that have been made public show this catalytic effect of our tourism on our economy. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, Minister Helena Kountoura submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] For example, from all official sources, ELSTAT, PSU, "FRAPORT", AIA, PSAP, Bank of Greece, "ERGANI", they have recorded all these elements and show the great increase recorded by the arrivals and revenues of over 10%, as well as the vertical increase of over 18% in international arrivals. However, the most important thing is that airports we supported, such as Mytilene, Anchovies, Kavala, respectively, increased 44%, 40%, 38%. In the northern Aegean we managed to bring to the most islands from 10% to 30% an increase in tourism. It is important to say that 15.3% of museum receipts, archaeological sites, 25% tax free because we opened the foreign markets. There was an increase of 24.4% in the construction of buildings. I must also say that sales and real estate have been rekindled and there is a huge and vertical increase in building activities. Also, the increase of 16.6% over the last eight years has recorded the turnover index in the activities of travel agencies, offices, etc. Recorded an increase of 8.5% average price per room at hotels and an increase of profits in 2017, based on published balance sheets 16-11-2018, 51%. So if this is not an increase in tourism, ladies and gentlemen, then I really don't know what to say. Our success is recognised by all the global actors that have publicly described our tourism policy as a model of tourism development and crisis management and as an example of good practice for adoption by other countries. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] As far as our education is concerned, I would like to say that if you had not completely depreciated it, if you had not shut down the OTEK, EPAs, if you had not shut down the tour schools and if you had not abandoned all the buildings that have been housing our trainers for decades, of course we could have done much more important things over the last three years. Nevertheless, we open the tour schools. In 2018, it operated in Athens. In 2019, it will work in Thessaloniki. We are upgrading the tourist training programs. We also put the retraining for about a quarter in ten cities in Greece and for three years and proceed so that the tourist demand in Greece remains strong and in 2019, which prevalences have started with a two-digit number. This bill, therefore, deals, if you like, with legislative, administrative and operational gaps in the second part, but the first part is about thematic tourism, the specific forms of tourism, an untapped part of the past, which was completely unregulated in our national legislation. There is therefore an integrated institutional framework compatible with global and European standards for the development, organisation and supervision of professional activities and entrepreneurship in thematic tourism. We give clear definitions, create new areas of development of tourist entrepreneurship and new professional activities and always take care in the light of security, high quality, propose the genuine experiences, which is the dominant trend on the global travel market and which Greece can stand out and lead. Since I do not have much time, I will tell you that everything we do in this bill is a continuation of all the arrangements that we have done, either with legislative initiatives that have entered other bills or with amendments, so that we can meet all the demands of the tourism sector and remove injustices. We have therefore eliminated lengthy procedures, unjustified bureaucracy, ambiguities and many opinions from the same bodies. So we have arrived today to say that the tourist development we have been mobilising over the last four years throughout the country and provides equal opportunities and benefits for all for the tourism sector but also for all the productive sectors, which are directly or indirectly linked to tourist activity, will now be the law of the state. This bill has the broad acceptance of tourism operators and is a necessity for this extremely important sector of incalculable value, a huge contribution to our country's national effort to productive reconstruction. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude by saying that I am sure you know how important the changes we bring are in order to establish a modern and more flexible framework that will support entrepreneurship and employment, bring new substantial revenues to the national economy and to many professional groups, will create new prospects for young people and young people. I am sure you know and recognize the success of tourism. It's just that you somehow have to oppose and come and place yourself in powers that are not my Ministry. However, I would like to tell you that the government is one. We're working excellently. To thank, from this step, the Ministry of Tourism, EOT, the colleagues who share with me their concerns and come in contact with the operators, all the productive operators of tourism that we have built together this bill. I should like to thank the ministers who supported me, the General Secretariat of the Government, and to say that tourism is a national matter, it concerns all Greeks and Greeks, it is directly linked to the course and future of our country and I invite you to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u313	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u314	Mr. Synatiakis, I told you that there is no possibility of seconds. You're all responsible because you've broken your time when you spoke. Already, you were eighteen minutes and a lot of others...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u315	Give me the floor, to say what I want to say on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u316	All right, let me hear you. Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u317	Look, we are not just disagreeing here, but we are denouncing two very important things. The first is that in a completely undemocratic way you are closing a procedure in a bill, whereas the Rules of Procedure provide for quite different things from what you are doing at the moment and, at the same time, they are heading in a straightforward manner, amendments and, even more recently, an amendment which contains seven articles, namely multimodalism, seven amendments, together with all the other eleven amendments, most of which were tabled today and you have not even given us the opportunity to put forward! Tell me, what kind of procedure is this? Where does it come from? What does this procedure result from the Rule of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u318	The Rule of the Rules of Procedure, from which it emerges, is that you have agreed to this House...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u319	Is it agreed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u320	...to limit everybody's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u321	And should I tell you something downstairs? Beyond my position...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u322	I didn't tell you you couldn't talk. Now, why do you speak and "eat" time, to say what?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u323	Let me tell you. Beyond my position, as a special speaker of the JRC, no one else spoke. So what kind of violation has happened on our side?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u324	Did I say there was a breach on your side?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u325	What kind of violation has happened on our part?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u326	I say, we all have a responsibility for the time during the meetings.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u327	In any case, we do not just disagree, but we denounce all this process that you have turned it into science! What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u328	You are all violating time, but unfortunately once in all, it seems that it is not possible to respond to the planning that has been done for Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u329	Can I tell you something? The Minister spoke twenty minutes from the fifteen you gave her. Others, to be placed as a dentist, as far as I know, do not exist. I'm the only one who asked the floor for the amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u330	I should've already left ten minutes ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u331	...and take me away that right too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u332	Mr. Synthraki, I should have left ten minutes ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u333	This is another issue, it is not a matter for the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u334	Well, instead of thanking me for staying here, you can say what you think...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u335	Your personal issue cannot be turned into a decision of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u336	...and the vote will take place, you make a speech, which will benefit you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u337	Your personal rush is turning it into a decision of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u338	No, it's not personal rush, my lord. I came 15:00 with 17:30. I'm done. What do we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u339	Just so you don't catch a fool, at least us, not just disagree, but we denounce this whole process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u340	All right, report me for a coup. I don't care. Mr. Consolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u341	Madam President, thank you very much. It was not a 'crime' for the colleague to speak for a few minutes, for a second, even though we agreed not to take the floor for the election of the procedure. However, following the tabling of this amendment, which has been mentioned and before Mr Synergyakis, I believe that when the Minister's debate ends, there is an amendment tabled by seven articles, there is an inconsistency and inconsistency of the government's intentions. I would not have taken the floor if the Minister did not say that the government is united. Firstly, I would urge the Minister to withdraw the amendment, to withdraw it. In a parliamentary procedure and in a democratic process, which the New Democracy intended to do, it is totally unacceptable, Madam President, that an amendment be tabled at this time. That's the first. Secondly, because there is a lot of talk about tourism education and we are constantly accused of 'you have done it', I would like to say that we have shown, Madam President, that we are interested in the future. So listen, Minister, since you inherit the procedure with regard to the decisions of the Government. Your Government, Minister, did not want to continue the institutionalized tourism education at the level of PI with two English-speaking sections and two Greek-speakings plus the Institute of Tourism Policy. So you did not continue to upgrade this perspective with hotel businesses. The Ministry of Education did not want them. That's not your responsibility. However, since you are presenting yourself here as a representative of the Government, I would stress that at the time you rejected the prospect of establishing four sections on the ground, plus the Institute for Tourism Research. You did not go along with it on your own. Now you're accusing us of abolishing the OTEK. I am tabling the minutes and the letter that we sent with signatures from all parties to discuss and the decisions of local societies and bodies to proceed with that establishment and establishment of tourist schools at the level of IEI, which you have not done. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And because, in fact, you spoke of laurels in Greek tourism, I have to tell you the details of the cruise. I didn't mean to. Madam Minister, you have us at the same time. But the elements of the cruise show a collapse. It's not all pomegranate. We are in agreement here, in a national context, with a national objective. So now, Madam President, we have to withdraw this amendment. I'm figuring out the facts about the history of the future. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] The next time the government wants to bring in a bill on tourism policy and development, it does not have any amendments such as those made by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Development, and the Ministry of Tourism, which are problematic in terms of their implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u342	You know that every December there is a question of the amendments. See statistically what each government submits every December there are extensions, which need amendments so that rights are not abolished, etc. However, I understand that you are not prepared. I have seen that this amendment was not an amendment in hand, but it has also been passed by the Court of Auditors. That means it wasn't the minister's responsibility if he was delayed. There are other procedures in place. I would like to say that at the end of the day we do not need to raise tons for a trivial reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u343	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u344	I didn't give Mr. Syntagakis the floor, so you could all take the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u345	Madam President, I do not want time for dentistry. I need a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u346	Mr. Synthrakis consumed him in the complaint. Here you go, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u347	Madam President, I would like to say that you referred previously to the agreement of the parties that the sitting will be closed at 5.30 p.m. The first to violate this agreement was the government. At 16.40 it brings an amendment when the debate on Members has been closed. Are we overlooking this? Secondly, although you say that this is the end of the year, in December, the Conference of Presidents cannot continue with the majority of it to decide draft legislation for a debate at a meeting, when the government intends to bring dozens of amendments from different ministries and then demand that they be discussed at a meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u348	What you're talking about is helping out right now, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u349	Absolutely, Madam President, in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u350	Come to the conference and tell them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u351	I'll say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u352	But here, it doesn't help you to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u353	It helps from now on: the Bureau is not helping to complete the legislative work normally, as is foreseen. And right now you're pressing so we don't talk. I think you should consider your responsibilities too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u354	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u355	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u356	A mistake has been mistakenly seen in the Secretariat-General. The mistake is in Article 32, in the second subparagraph of paragraph 7, which states 'the seats and the houses', not 'the settlements'. It is the 'housewives', not the'societies'. This mistake has been made by mistake. We saw it now. Please for his correction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u357	Mr. Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u358	I would like a minute, Madam President, for the equality of arms. I protest at tabling amendments that could have been included in the bill at the last minute, since the predictions of this amendment have also been worked out, just half an hour before the debate is over. As I also complain about the tabling of the amendments by the other ministries. We have the Ministry of Finance in front of us, say, which tomorrow - tomorrow we shall have a bill of its own in plenary. Why is the whole bill now being tabled as an amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u359	Are we going to vote on amendments in the budget?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u360	Of course, we have amendments like the one with the casinos. We are unable to follow this process. We'll probably be wronging some provisions. We can't give a vote. On the one hand and on the other, we will vote 'at present' because it is not by this procedure that we are dealing with serious issues such as the ones we are planning to manage with these amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u361	The Minister had thirty-five minutes to speak and speak 15. If nonetheless the demands and protests have anything to say, let him say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u362	The last amendment is basically intended to regulate a very serious issue, which concerns the personal differences between officials of the Ministry of Tourism, which is why it has been delayed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u363	He couldn't have joined the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u364	Unfortunately, it wasn't my responsibility. He's late. So it comes up and provides for the personal difference, which we managed as Ministry of Tourism after three years to find the funds, together with Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Juliarakis, so that we could remove this injustice. It also comes to regulate an extension to ski resorts, due to problems not related to ski resorts or to the government, because at the time they were created, they were legally operating under certain other conditions. Unfortunately, clandestineness again - and you force me to make an opposition, which I do not want - of their previous governments have had a hostage of extensions, without allowing them to make a special signal of operation. And there are so many problems that are unsurpassed. So they're getting an extension why? Snow travels are currently in preconditions, but they have not received the formal papers and should be sealed. Do you want in the winter season for something typical to be sealed? Oh, no. So there's an extension coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u365	Could that not be predicted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u366	It's not my responsibility. From there on, the rest is typical. In other words, it was typical that, since these two amendments came, the others for the Ministry of Tourism, for the division, for the support of the EOT and so on. I am sorry, but amendments are always coming which are essential in order to be able to function properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u367	I will give the floor to Mr Synergy, if he wants it now, and to Mr Eliopoulos, to close in peace.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u368	In relation to the amendment tabled at the last minute, we will obviously vote against it, because there is no time to get into the process. I understand that some of these are also 'a little photographic', not to say'very photographic', except for the subject of the personal difference, which we reserve to see until the last minute what we can do. In all other respects, I do not think there is any room for me to go into the substance of the amendments. All I can say is that the government is tabling a number of amendments which are of a little pre-election nature, like the one with the cleaners for the extension of contracts of private law of indefinite duration, which go from an extension, while the needs are stable and lasting. They should have turned into an indefinite time. The government is taking it from an extension, just to look at workers' eyes as good, which gives prolongation to work, that is, hostage. Of course, it does the same with regard to subsidiary staff in hospitals, except for doctors. And here this amendment is an amendment from the previous one of 2018. It is the amendment to the previous amendment, which also amended a previous amendment to establish the completion of the competitive process. That's what the people say, that anyone who doesn't want to ferment ten days is sifting. This is the government, and that is why it also brings the amendments with a fast track process within a time of record, so that everyone else does not have the opportunity to see what exactly these amendments cover, whereas, in particular, if you were actually saying that we were in regularity, you had to move to permanent employment relationships in all these areas which, in fact, need to be found in hospitals, in schools, in cleanliness, in every area where there is a need, in any case, for labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u369	Mr. Eliopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u370	I would also like to condemn this practice. I do not even go into the substance of the amendment. This amendment is not so urgent. After eight hours of being here discussing a bill on tourism, the Minister could bring it in the next week that the House has so much legislative work. There is no such definition of urgency. We have become graphics by condemning, Madam President, what you were saying when you were in the opposition to mislegislation. We have now come here and become graphics, condemn and oppose what you condemn. I mean, it's a little tragic. Let's fix this. That is not how Parliament works. It cannot be legislated with last-minute amendments. In fact, we cannot even get into the substance of the amendment now that we have been brought to it. You've had eight hours and you've had all yours next week, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u371	Does someone from SYRIZA want to talk? I don't want to hat you because of the speed. Here, Mr. Ursouzidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u372	I am obliged to take up these three amendments. I think it goes without saying that Mr Condonne's point of view was to suspend measures because of the earthquake. Also, the amendment by colleagues, as far as the declaration is concerned, the rename of the Municipalities of Kasos and Fish as heroic islands is concerned, I think it goes without saying that it should be accepted. At the same time, on the amendment to rationalise tourism, which relates to the seat of the Schools of Tourism, I think that there is no question. As regards the latter, however, I have to say that we are forced to accept it, as it says: ‘To the publication of the lists of nominees of that notice, this specific and expeditious derogation from the general rule shall be imposed for reasons of public interest resulting from the above.’ So I don't see anything bad or anything new. This is for completely specific reasons and does not create fair. It is for absolutely specific things and only for one case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u373	Thank you. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: "Thematic tourism - specific forms of tourism - arrangements for the modernisation of the institutional framework in the field of tourism and tourism education - support for tourism entrepreneurship and other provisions". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We note that the vote includes the principle of the bill, seventy-six articles, eleven amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill at the end. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right will appear every time the number of articles left to vote. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, the hotel and the whole, if you would like to vote on them. After you have registered your vote, you have the opportunity to check and review it, to correct it, i.e. until the end of the meeting. For any question, please contact the relevant officials here to help you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u374	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u375	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u376	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: "Thematic Tourism - specific forms of tourism - arrangements for the modernisation of the institutional framework in the field of tourism and tourism education - support for tourism entrepreneurship and other provisions" was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u377	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u378	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that the Special Standing Committee of the Regions, the Subcommittee on Islands and Mountains, the Special Standing Committee on the Environment and the Subcommittee on Water Resources are tabling their reports in accordance with Rule 43a(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which will be recorded in the Minutes. [[The reports referred to above are in electronic format in the archive of the Special Permanent Committees Directorate.]] I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House: the 21-9-2018 penal case law concerning the Member and Minister of National Defence Mr. Panagiotis Kammenos and the 27-9-2018 criminal case law concerning the Member and Minister of National Defence Mr. Panagiotis Kammenos. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-06-S1-commons.u379	With the consent of the House at 18.05 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 7 December 2018 at 10 a.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
