ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Department's approval from 1-8-2018, the minutes of its G sessions of Wednesday, 1 August 2018, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘University of Ioannina, Ionian University and other provisions’.]] Please tell the Secretary-General to announce the reports to the Department. [[They shall be announced to the Department by Mr Stavros Arahovitis, Member of the Laconia, the following:]] REFERENCE OF REFERENCES
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Two topical and urgent debates will be held today. In view of the blockade of Ministers or Members of Parliament, eight topical questions will not be discussed, namely: The eighth Question No 24-26-2018 by Mr Nicholas Moraitis, Member of the European Parliament, on the subject of "Problems in the operation of the Centre for Physics and Rehabilitation of Amphilocasia (KEFIAP)" will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Member. The second, with number 27-27-2018, topical question by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republic of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Travel of passengers at Rhodes airport", will not be discussed due to lack of competence. I see the Vice-President, Mr. Cremastino, is present. Mr President, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I am here because I do not know which ministry to address. I addressed to the Ministry of Transport, which stated unresponsible and referred to the Ministry of Economy and Development. The Ministry of Economy and Development stated lack of responsibility and referred to the Ministry of Finance. What's the matter? The point is that the 'FRAPORT', which is responsible for airports, instead of promoting the operation of airports, has led them to a great deadlock. A characteristic example is that the airport of Rhodes was closed the day before yesterday and other flights were directed to Crete, other flights to Kos and others to Turkey. The image the airport gives is a dissolution picture. Imagine that in the past month there have been eight hundred thousands of passengers who took their stuff from a distance of thirty or forty meters because the airport straps did not work. So you realise that this is a topical issue. As this summer part is closed, and the next item is not to be asked timely questions, it is necessary to - let me say - 'complained' to oblige 'FRAFORT' to function effectively, because the airports were given 'FRAPORT' to work better so that we can have a better quality of tourism. This story goes completely negative. I would also like to present my personal view of Rhodes Airport, which was traveling the day before yesterday. People were in front of the guises, others were sitting down, others sitting in the chairs, that is, there was a picture of no quadrant world state! The Third World state certainly seems better! I protest this way, because you too, from your experience, and I as Vice-President of Parliament, know that bringing one Ministry to another the question and not finally answering it, is a great mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u4	I understand your objection, Mr. Kremastine. Such cases may not be as many, based on experience as you have said - which you and I have - but I think the government should see. Perhaps when the Summer Departments are finished, we can discuss this at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u5	Yes, Mr President, but I say it because this month tourism is in an increase.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u6	I understand what you're saying, Mr. Kremastein. Your objection has been recorded. The Bureau, of course, cannot do anything at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u7	I know, alas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, too. We continue with the other topical questions that will not be discussed. The third, with number 28-27-2018, is the timely question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Kazan ready to explode the state of Skopje", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fifth question under number 26-26-7-2018 by MP I of the Central Association Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "About the legality of the Skouria mine", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The sixth Question No 23/25-2018 by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: "The Government covers the four ministers who received the details of the candidates' files", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. The ninth, under No 1/12-7-2018, is a topical question by Congressman I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The tenth under number 21/25-2018, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Ekaterini Papakostas - Ironopoulou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The founding of the Academy of Arts", will not be discussed due to an obstruction of the Minister. The seventh Question No 19-24-2018 by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "In relation to the persecutions suffered by the Scottish authorities Archbishop Ahridos Mr. It will not be debated because of an impediment by the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we begin the debate with the first item number 25-26-2018, a topical question from the New Democracy MP Mr. Yoyaka to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Strengthening and speeding up the processing of pension applications in the local services of the FAO". The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, Minister, the figures show that hundreds of thousands of former OGA members are treated by the OGA administration as second-class insured. Three hundred people are currently working in the services of the Macedonian Farmers from the total of eight to eight and a half thousand EKKA employees. In other words, only 3.5% of the staff are required to serve 14% of the insured persons belonging to the ECA Farmers. This figure is actually even smaller, since of the three hundred employees only the two-two deal with pensions and insurance. Of course, you can answer me that there are no serious delays in the processing of pension applications and in the award of pensions, since many regional parts of the ECA have achieved or exceeded the goals set by the Ministry for 2017. Indeed, you may be partly right to go beyond the targets. But, for people to know too, this is due to the conscientiousness, the esteem and the great effort of people in the peripheral parts of the ECA, who, in order to make pensions, sit down and work overtime, work Saturdays and even work at home, and that is why they deserve a great deal of work. But they deserve it, Minister, at last, because they are few in relation to the work they do and the number of people they have to serve. I know that new disability, death and widowhood pensions, i.e. applications submitted after 1-1-2017, are going very slowly, because all the forces, all this great effort is being exhausted in the previous years' disability pensions. So tell us what you will do to make all the former OGA pensions progress faster, so that this waiting and suffering for thousands of our fellow citizens can stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Yoyaka. Mr. Petropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Yoyakas, I will never compare myself to a Member who raises questions of citizens' acceleration and service. There's no way I'll ever object. On the contrary, what I always confirm from this position is our will to speed up and improve social security services even better. It is a fact that the staff dealing with the whole of the ECA, not only for farmers, are eleven times as high as those who served in 2010 and 2011. This is known for the policies that have preceded and accepted the staffing potential of all actors and social security bodies and other bodies providing services to citizens, health, labour controls. However, although it is true that they are working much less than they have been, I would inform you that 11 000 five hundred sixty-six workers' pensions were issued in 2015, thirteen thousand seventy-three and seventy-three, and in 2018 until now they are already ready for payment - and many of them - eight hundred farmers' pensions have been paid. To have a clearer picture, on December 31, 2014, in the granting of pensions to farmers were thirty thousand six hundred and fifty-seven just outstanding. So in terms of what is often said - because farmers waiting know how long they have been waiting, but those who do not expect to hear that they are late - these delays have always happened and in particular have happened for both successive and other successive pensions, international pensions. There were such reasons for delay. It was thirty thousand sixty-seven outstanding on December 31, 2014 and sixteen thousand seventy-seven in June 2018, almost half outstanding. Then, of course, I will also say on other issues, after completing my answer on what you are addressing. However, I would remind you that in total of sixty-eight thousand nine hundred twenty-two outstanding pensions that existed on December 31, 2014 and in January 2015, we have reached fifty-three thousand eighths, i.e. almost one-third of the outstanding pensions at the time. We have a reduction, which is 68.2% less. We have a success of 68.2% in the issue of old pensions and of all those who accumulated. As far as the one-offs are concerned, we have 50.7%. Especially now we've published the single at 86% compared to last year. So the FBI is helping speed up the issue of pensions. We'll be satisfied when the systems are completed, so they'll all come out within three months. Any pensions granted under application in 2017 - which are not successively insured or are not international pensions - are issued in the quarter and within one month in several cases. This is the result of a work that we do, which we have to complete in the next period, with the systems that we are organizing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u12	Here, Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u13	Minister, I would first like to say that in recent months some steps have indeed been taken to solve various problems, concerning the computerisation of the ECA and the extradition of certain types of pensions. But we are not just here to criticize, as you have said. We are to discuss how you could provide concrete solutions, practical solutions, as soon as possible. So you must release the time of the officials so that they can go to productive work on pensions. Let us not forget that workers have several hours of daily service to the public, so that they only have one - and a half hours a day and a day to deal with the pension system. A lot of valuable time is therefore lost for issuing insurance and insurance information attestations. These attestations, Minister, could have been given through the platform of the EPC's digital services in order to save citizens and time and effort. However, no matter how much time it is saved, it cannot deliver its own results unless you do not see to it that the proper staff are made available. We cannot be in August 2018 and still have not made a request for a transfer from those which have been made in accordance with Article 24 of Law 4418/1987 and have been pending since last December. This is the information I had from your office, when I asked about three applications that have been made for moving from the OPECA to the farmers' ECA in Jannah. You cannot keep officials who want to move and who can offer because you do not want - obviously I do not know who - to be dissatisfied with their agencies of origin. I therefore expect a binding answer on when you can dismantle these movements on the basis of Law 4418/1987. You must also tell us when a presidential decree will be issued on the new establishment plan of the ECA, the OPECA and the PYYY. Tell us, if you know, whether it has been passed by the Council of State. That is what I wanted to say, Minister. We expect immediate mobilisation in order to provide solutions to these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Yoyaka. Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u15	Mr Yoyakas, you are right when you say that the better a service is organised, such as that provided for social security, the better and more effective it will be the goods provided to the insured. And the fact is that, in the direction you are thinking about, we have already proceeded to applications that give information directly. The insurance capacity already has legislation, which followed a few months ago, at the end of 2017. We have said that those who pay the contribution from 1-1-2017, even if they owed old contributions, have insurance capacity and cover for health services. With the Ministry of Health, since Mr. Paul Paulakis is here, we have almost completed, we have essentially completed and bureaucratically the minimum issues we will solve so that there is no need for health books to provide the services. It's an expense and publish a booklet, or seal and reseal. There's no reason. We are doing this with Paul Paul Paul and this process is complete. We're sorting out these issues. The ECA is organized electronically and provides services. One can see this even now on the occasion of this necessary assistance to our fellow citizens, who were affected by this last week's disaster. EKA understands the role in another way than before, because it goes beyond the provisions of the law on its operation, it goes beyond obstacles and objections to the systems that went through its operation in order to be able to provide services. So we can give two pensions. It's not predictable from anywhere. But EFKA, social security, public security, must be flexible, see the citizen and solve all the problems he has had from the past, in a disharmony, with the needs of the citizen, and with the prospect that social security must have. I agree and everyone must agree that we must protect and defend public health insurance in the direction it should be, that is to say, providing every citizen with a high level of service and solve with due regard. You have seen that we have anticipated regulation and will proceed with the debt relief that is old. Do you know how many debts that remained unjustly on the back of the insured were preventing them from being retired? These will speed up the issue of pensions. He is too old - saying 'how much is he?' - the number of employers he badly owes, because the OAU is asking them for money and cannot, due to debts, be retired. This is all a huge bucket. It is very difficult to resolve this within the short time we would like to resolve it, because we need to see the complex and mixed decks in the social security system. We're not talking about other bodies. Social security itself has had difficulties in working, which we are now resolving to work on. Of course, the functioning of the OIEs and the services that are now being set up in the ECA, where everyone will work for everyone, will be very accelerated. There will be no employee who will only work for the farmer or who will only work for the lawyer or for someone else - and you know about the lawyer or engineer - he should come to Athens from all over Greece. In other words, there are too many categories of insured persons who now acquire the possibility and access to pay their contributions and receive their benefits wherever they are located. On this occasion, on the occasion of the victims and detonators of the last catastrophic fire, a statement will be issued today that they will be able to submit their application everywhere which will be dealt with, regardless of whether they were OGA, IKA, TEBE or anything else. These are the positives of this development that we give to social security with new systems. And obviously the children deserve the staff who fight in difficult conditions. And the conditions are difficult, because the population of officials and officials employed in social security has been depopulated. We are therefore trying to make rapid learning processes. Indeed, he also needs education, for he who was in the OGA cannot know the social security systems of free professionals or scientists. These are understandable things. Obviously, all this is causing some delays. We'll speed up fast. And I assure you that the bet we have given since January 2019 in three months to issue the pension, we will succeed. To be clear to you, if there are no issues of international social security institutions, i.e. pending cases of such cases that must come from Australia, America and other countries outside Greece and such difficulties or debts, pensions will be issued within three months. Already for the pensions requested in 2017, almost all of them were completed within a quarter. We're on a good road. I don't want to calm anyone down, but it's a battle we're constantly fighting. And the results are, of course, seen with the contribution of all ECA officials and officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the fourth with number 29/30-7-2018, a timely question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "For continued insecurity - the hostage of auxiliary personnel in PAGNI". The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr. Paul Paulakis. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, subsidiary staff in hospitals in the country that closed twenty-four months, are at risk of being fired and uncertain about payment. There are, of course, over five hundred workers in Greece. In Crete forty-five. Twenty-three at PANGNE, at "Venizelio", three at Agios Nikolaos, eleven at Rethymnon, eight at Chania. Most of them were hired via ASEP in 2013. Ten of them were hired in 2016. On the basis of the Court of Auditors’ decisions at the end of 2017, their contracts are automatically void. This means, firstly, that they are directly at risk of dismissal long before the end of their contract - 31 December 2018, some in September 2018 - and, secondly, that staff will be stopped from being paid after the notification of the decision. In addition to ancillary staff, this decision may include other categories of contractors whose contracts exceed twenty-four-four-month-old staff in cleaning, catering, storage - which have signed individual fixed-term contracts. The government can reassurance, as it usually does. A proverb says, of course, that whoever does not want to ferment is sifting six years. This is what the government is doing, rather than just converting fixed-term contracts into indefinite ones. And, of course, the JRC has repeatedly tabled amendments to too many categories of workers in order to resolve the issue of individual contracts definitively and the government has rejected them. The amendment of the Ministry of Health for auxiliary staff in hospitals, with the exception of doctors, simply transfers for a shorter time after their dismissal. The June amendment provides for the continuation of their term of office with the signature of new contracts with a maximum period of 31-5-2019, i.e. the period of dismissal of subsidiary workers, while there is no provision for the subsidiary doctors who have a corresponding problem. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some time, Mr President. Thank you. There is, of course, the possibility that the signing of the new contracts will not take place for all subsidiary workers if the assessment of the needs of the administrations of the health services to which they are working is taken into account. The call for positions via the APA provided for in the amendment not later than 30-10-2018 shall not cover all the needs of the hospitals in the country nor ensure workers who have already been working for five years covering fixed and fixed needs. In other words, there is no commitment to moleculosis to ensure their work. On the contrary, it will probably complicate matters even further, because firstly, you will put the unemployed, who are rightly seeking work, against those who want to safeguard their work, namely subsidiary staff. It is something that will strengthen social automation. In other words, some against them and who has the right to work. Your death my life. Secondly, the anticipated extension of the term of office of existing ancillary staff with the new contracts, as provided for in the amendment, can eventually end on 31-5-2019 if the provisional lists of nominated authors of the notice are drawn up earlier. Thirdly, the recruitment of permanent staff, which you say will be carried out in the notice, does not cover the assistants - I told you before - because you do not guarantee that you will satisfy them as persons and as a number. And of course, all this development will create many problems, malfunctions in the hospitals in the country and the valuable experience of these workers will remain untapped. So we ask you, Minister, and in view of all the above, is it the Government's intention to give a definitive solution to this matter by abolishing flexible working relations, by permanentising all those who are already working and by carrying out massive recruitment of permanent full-time and full-time staff with full-time insurance and employment rights? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Paulakis has the floor. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Collegiate, I really don't understand why you're asking the question. I really don't get it. We have had a detailed debate when the amendment was tabled to the transport equivalent bill, which solves precisely the problem of subsidiary staff created, since the previous government - due to the suffocating needs in hospitals at the break-up stage - was forced into a number of positions in hospitals throughout the country to recruit subsidiary staff with annual or two-year contracts at that time. We have done so in the framework of the overall public sector support programme, with nineteen and a half thousand positions which we have declared in these three years that we are government. To say this specifically - because we had said it again then, the problem has been solved and you come here and ask me for self-evident things, and they have responded - firstly, five hundred were the people who served as subsidiary staff, except doctors, in hospitals throughout the country and who were appointed before we took over in January 2015. In May 2016, an additional notice of about six hundred ancillary staff was issued, beyond the permanent posts of OAED, in addition to doctors' notices, the permanent, in addition to TMY's and so on. There was this in 2016 if you remember, which was the year the system began to stabilise. Therefore, six hundred other people have been on duty since August 2016. At some point in December 2017 to some subsidiary whom we had extended, because we need their services - and those that we received in 2016 and 2017 for the year - would end their term of office and extended them until 31 December 2018 to all. At some point some of the Court of Auditors Commissioners considered - and for some it is provocative - that twenty-four months have passed. Some have been working for four years, namely some old people have been working since 2013 or since 2014. At the end of 2017, Commissioners remember that they had spent the twenty-four months, which they had not remembered before. So there is a decision then, which has been made in consultation with the Court of Auditors. They know that we have prepared an act of ministerial council for a proclamation of a thousand two hundred permanent posts in the positions currently served by subsidiary staff. And yet, a few days before June came out, they asked for this decision, and until then they were paid and said, "Of course, pay them so far and fire the 1st of July." Beware,'releasing the 1st of July'. That was then a piece of the Court of Auditors, that is to say, twenty-four months have passed. Yes, they offered service, but July 1st, you have to fire all those who spend the 24-month period. I mean, everybody. That's it. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] And you remember very well that this amendment was then made, which we informed both the Court of Auditors and all of you and all the parties in this House, and we said this: a notice is being prepared for a thousand two hundred people who are in the positions currently serving as auxiliary staff. This will come out September - October, and the pre-service of these people will be mobilised, because in fact these people have offered all these years, supported the system and we need to mobilise this pre-service and the experience they have gained. And we say this process must be completed by May 31, 2019. And until then, we are extending to their term of office so that there is no division of continuity but that these people continue to work until then. And we hope that the results will have come out. Of course you can't be sure. However, we will ensure that the vast majority of these people are taken out on the basis of the provisional tables - because it cannot be said that it will be 100%, because there may be someone outside with experience, with pre-service, etc. and that will be modulated - be one of those who serve today. In my opinion, the whole thing will be, but that is something that will be seen on the basis of those who apply. Therefore, with regard to Crete, and with regard to the 'VENIZELEIO' and PAGNEI, as you have seen on the basis of the amendment, a renewal of the contract has been signed until then. There's no question of paying. Why do you say that? There's no question of paying. Do not make a contribution to creating a climate of disaster, when you see the efforts we are making to balance and upgrade the system. That's the reality, that's what's happened. This conversation has taken place in the House and has been made public and workers know it. Can you imagine what would happen if right now, in summer months, we had either a thousand unpaid or fired? Have you seen something happen? Do you think people don't understand if what we're doing is for their benefit? That is the way it is, Mr Synonymakis, and that is how we shall proceed. Finally, the recruitment of staff of the 7K notice and we are in a new negotiation with the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction for the number of permanent recruitments, which will be given to the Ministry of Health of the Year, in 2019. So there is a procedure. For I would remind you that on 21 August we come out of the memoranda and we will be able to do things differently and support the public health system, which we supported in the Memorandum years, with a conscious political choice. That's what we're talking about today. It has nothing to do with the situation of July 2018 as it was in October 2015. The day after night is, whatever those on the channels say to underestimate the work that has been done. They know the enormous social reflection that the health system has on people's social behavior and on the sense of security and everything. Without wanting to underestimate something, I think that we have said all of this before, and that is why I asked you from the outset why you are asking the question. As far as I'm concerned, as far as I'm concerned, I'll tell you in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u20	Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u21	Minister, I do not know what contact you have with the workers, with the assistants and with the doctors, but with the other workers in the other categories.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u22	Huge!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u23	However, the fact that the JRC brings to Parliament a debate this matter will say that it concerns them. Looks like you can say you're giving a solution. In fact, however, the question is whether you are committing yourself - and if it is the value that we bring this issue to a debate here - that all of the five hundred employees of subsidiary companies throughout...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u24	They're not five hundred. They're all a thousand two hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u25	Thousands and hundreds of others need so many more to meet the needs of the hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u26	Another three to four thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u27	So the question is whether you are committed - because only then have meaning to what you say - that all these workers and as a number, but also as natural persons, will be recruited with a permanent relationship.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u28	They are permanently the posts that are being procured.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u29	Then it will make sense to what you say, and not to put it with asterisks and various conditions. Because you know the unemployment criterion is outweighed by molecules, it is a strong criterion. We do not say that the unemployed should not claim the right to work. Instead, what I have said to you before is that the needs of the hospitals in the country are multiple, which means that the unemployed can also find a job, but also those who are already working. They've been closed for five years. With S.H.I.E.E.L.D., they didn't get in through the back door, they didn't get into the muskets. Through ASA, these workers have also entered and given their lives to hospitals. Therefore, they are entitled to enter, as are the unemployed to declare participation and to find a place. The question, however, arises - and it is a question of the workers themselves - is how, after so many years of work, since October 1913, the recruitments have been carried out, not to go ahead with the self-evident question, namely the conversion of these contracts for an indefinite period. What is it that prevents you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u30	The Constitution, Mr. Covenant.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u31	You went out and you were "the tiles" once and you folded your clothes and said that with an article and an order you would solve the problem with two lines. Why don't you do it today? What is it that binds you? They are your commitments to the European Union, to the OECD, to the International Monetary Fund, to commitments that do not stop in August 1918. They are the commitments that go by 2060, which are translated into the health sector in that these health units operate as self-employed business units, in the operation of limiting labour-wage spending, in the context of a well-known caramel on economic self-sufficiency and self-conservation from their own income, including payroll from the sale of health services to patients and insurance funds. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is why flexible labour relations are expanding. That is why you do not automatically turn individual contracts into contracts of indefinite duration, contrary to what the JRC says that hospitals in the country need multiple recruitments to cover all needs rather than ballasts. What you're doing is patches. Why was it called ancillary staff? Can you tell me? Why has this been named after it meets standing and constant needs after you go to six consecutive renewal contracts? So is this subsidiary staff, when it meets fixed and permanent needs? It's three hundred sixty-five days a year. They don't cover any gaps. It's not seasonal personnel. The needs of hospitals are not temporary. These hospital needs are permanent. You must therefore automatically convert these contracts into an indefinite period of time, or you will be bound here that all these workers, without asterisks, will be hired with a permanent employment relationship through this AACC competition by mobilisation. Otherwise, it makes no sense to make fun of this world once again. I conclude with this: the JRC carries the anxiety, the indignation, but also the fair demands of subsidiary and employee and doctors who are also in a lasting hostage and who are calling for their permanent status. We want clear answers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Synchronous. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u33	Mr Colleagues, it is clear that you need a little change in the analysis of reality as a party. I understand that a problem has arisen for you, because for three years there has been a clear choice of support for the public sector, which does not fit into your analysis. It does not stick to the analysis of the destruction you have done on the basis of how global capitalism is evolving and you repeat some things that you are exposed to. You cannot say that we are not supporting hospitals and that this is where the situation is being lost and an OECD plan is being implemented, when almost seventeen thousand more people in hospitals have been in service since October 1915. That is not a policy of non-support. You cannot say that we do not support public hospitals when we received on-call expenditure at 297 million, and at the moment it is 355. And I'll tell you about the increases. I will only use one example for PAGNE, since we are talking about hospitals in Crete. In 2015, the government of Samaras delivered to us that it planned for '15 to grant 35,218,000 grant to the University Hospital of Heraklion. With the extraordinary grant given in the last quarter of '15 we managed and gave 40 million. That's real money. In 2016, we gave 39 million from the General Accounting Office and 10 million from EEAY, which is 49 million. In 2017 we gave 43 million from the General Accounting Office and 18 million and something, that is, a total of 62 million from the EEA. So, please tell me now: in your analysis of the destruction of the public health sector on the basis of developments in global capitalism and OECD directives, how does it fit? I could talk a lot of time about them. I shall reply to the second point you raised. We can't, Mr. Synchronism, turn the conventions, because that's what the Constitution says. And you and we probably have decided that we are working in the context of civil parliamentary democracy and on the basis of the requirements of the Constitution. Or haven't you made up your mind?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u34	What left are you? No overthrow, can't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u35	The question goes here and there, I think. You know that all the decisions that have been made and are inhibiting, etc. they are based on this prescription of the Constitution. Obviously the thousands of thousands of them are permanent, Mr Synergy. Secondly, there is another reason. You know that many of these posts are not organic, because in many hospitals there are no organic posts, they will be set up. I know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u36	But they cover organic positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u37	No, Mr. Covenant. You don't know that. They cover need. But the Agency did not foresee that, for example, at Sparta Hospital I want a technician for why the shifts don't come out. The Agency did not foresee it and it was taken as an adjunct. Subsidiary staff also went to posts that were not organic. At the moment these people must be able to claim and become permanent. And they're being recommended, Mr. Synchronism. I'm very direct. You are now doing this because you know that they are listening to us and asking me the question: 'Do you think they will go themselves'? Listen to me, Mr. Synergy. We will predict such molecules that they will actually reward these people for the service they have provided. From there on, because I'm not a liar, in a hundred or three may not be the same, because someone who has such a service or such molecules or such a family situation can be found to overcome someone. It is difficult for the overwhelming majority to say this, but do not say this in this way thinking that you are doing some service to some. Our political choice is clear: everyone who is at work today, and where there are no organic positions, are set up and proclaimed. We're declaring, and the PHS we're preparing is for a thousand two hundred places. There's gonna be this molecules. And yes, that's it, claiming the position and becoming permanent. The automatic conversion of contracts runs counter to the constitutional requirements. In this debate we will make it another time when the more general socio-political conditions grow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u38	That concludes the question. Before we proceed to the conclusion of the meeting, Mr Petropoulos asked, in his intervention, to make a correction to some of his words in his reply to Mr Yoyakas' question, whom we invited to be in the Chamber. Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor. Two minutes is enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u39	Not right away. You know, many times when we talk with numbers, we make mistakes - it is known - in the report of the speech. I was told by Mr Arahovitis that eight hundred agricultural pensions have already been approved for 2018. The truth is that it is eight thousand and not eight hundred. And because the rural world is worried about listening to such small numbers, I have to restore the exact amount. It's eight thousand and not eight hundred pensions in six months. Apparently, at the end of the year, we'll have a record in relation to the previous years. On the occasion of this correction, I would like to say that I have failed to deal with two cases. Mostly in Thrace, we have a serious staff deficit. Immediately we take support measures to ensure that farmers in Thrace, from Alexandroupolis to Xanthi, have faster results. That is where we have the greatest delay. There's some delays in Larissa. We will, however, resolve these soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-08-02-S1-commons.u41	With the consent of the Department and 10.24 minutes of the meeting, the meeting shall be closed.
