ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION of PRACTICE: According to the Parliament's 20-12-2018 authorisation of Parliament was confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau at its meetings of Thursday 20 December 2018, with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘Modification of its Provisions from 31 May 2007, the Concession Agreement for the Project ‘Study, Construction, Financing, Maintenance and Operation of the Central Greece Motorway (E65)’, ratified by Law 3597/2007 (A168), as amended by: (a) the 28.11.2013 ‘Authorisation Agreement of the Provisions of the Concession Convention’, ratified by Article 2nd of Law 4219/2013 ‘Currency of the Agreements amending the Concession Agreements on major road projects and settlement of related issues’ (A'269), ‘Agreements on the Implementation of the Amendment Agreements’, (b) and (c) of the Amendment of the Amendment Nos to the Amendment Nos to the Act of 28.12.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the discussion of the third under number 233/18-12-2018, a topical question by the Member of the Attica Party of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of the Environment and Energy, on the "Athens Andreas Region in Nea MacAttikis and the illegal claims of the Church". Mr. Gioka, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. The timely question concerns what is stated in the title. It is about a serious loose end that has to do with illegal claims by the Church against an area where for a century nearby families were born there, their parents were born there. As a result, this region has evolved into the current settlement of Gerotsakouli in the area of Nea Macris Attica. This area is claimed by the Church. And the Church came to claim it after the tourist development of the last decades, invoking the well-known titles from the time of the Turkish rule in its private archives, great codes etc., with the consequence that the people who live there, the families - and again that they were born there, their parents were born there - to be troubled without any responsibility. And this story isn't today. He's been dragging in for decades, resulting in the suffering of these people. However, with recent judicial decisions, and again and again, which have been finalised, the existence of a presumption of the Greek public and, consequently, the lack of ownership rights of the Church, namely the Monastery of Pentelis, was recognized. However, despite the fact that there are these judicial decisions, despite the fact that the Church ignores these decisions and registers rights in the Register, the big question is the attitude of the Greek State, which is lagging behind, inactivity. It's the softest expression we can use. In any case, however, it essentially tolerates this situation, the claims of the Church and leaves room for the Church to register rights for this region against its inhabitants. The question arises as follows: What measures will the government take - and, if necessary, legislative measures - to put an end to this historic looseness and to recognise that this region belongs to the public, that the Church has no right to this area and decades later, finally, to put an end to the hostage of residents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Gioka, with a title I'll answer by starting. There is nothing to do with the state and the government's attitude to what you described. The opposite is true: and the protection of the area and the claim of public character and the preservation of forest use. And obviously the state isn't absent. And institutionally, it's not the state's absence. But, Mr Gioka, you will allow me to tell you that this case is a typical example of the absurdity of the modern Greek state, which has allowed caging and citizens, but also of the interests of the public and forests themselves, because very simply some have not made sure that there are tools that protect both citizens and the state. The difficulty and complexity of the problem you have presented is clearly due to the fact that the state has not done what the Constitution has imposed over the last forty years. But I must tell you that it is not the only example throughout Greece, where there are such deadlocks and such huge problems. This is because the Greek state and the parties that ruled the Greek state - and I am referring above all to the New Democracy and the PASOK - did not invest in tools, such as forest maps and the Land register, which would regulate the uses of land, would preserve rights issues of both the public and the public. And they did that for too many decades. But the country, Mr Gioka, has taken too many steps forward. And these steps were taken in difficult conditions: monumental, bankruptcy, lending and suffocation. But we managed not only to get out of the memorials, but we managed to start the case of forest maps, which forty years were in the drawers of the political leaderships of the ministries because they very simply wanted to beat the citizen's back, they said, "I will solve your problem once" and let the extent to which his children were born and let the public character of the forest be questioned. All of this was fine letters for the Greek state so far. And I must tell you that not all of this was deliberately resolved to keep everyone happy within the deadlocks that were maintained. So I have to make a formal reference to my answer, which, however, I must make it clear - it is only about the area of responsibility of the Ministry, since you also ask the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. Therefore, it applies only to forestry legislation and the rights relating to the management of forest land. That is the responsibility you have asked me. There are too many elements and actions of the state in contrast to the description you have given that we have not done anything. If, however, you have any further document than I will say now, I would be happy to look into it and continue in my second language. So the extent you describe is forest. And that was the basis of the judgements of the courts. It is a forest indeed in the area of Agios Andreas in Nea Makri, for which individuals have filed an appeal against the Greek public. It intervened in this story, and the Holy Monastery of Pentelis. However, after the appeal was brought by the Greek State, as you said, this decision was rejected in 2006. The decision of the Court of Appeal has become irrevocable because the area at issue has always been a forestry area, which was owned and still belongs to the ownership of the Greek State. That is, based on forest legislation, it's public. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I will conclude very quickly. In order to avoid any misunderstanding, I present to you - and it is at your disposal - a document of the Pentelis Forestry, which explicitly states that this area is managed by the service as a public service, is protected as such and is included in the Register Declaration made by the Eastern Attica Department of Forestry and has been submitted to OTA of Nea Macris, now a Municipal Unit of Nea Macris Municipality of Marathon. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Therefore, it appears that not just the public has guaranteed the character - I will give it to you and then, if you like, I have pointed it out in color - but there is also a statement in the register on the patentability of rights. There is one question, however: is the public nature of the area questioned by the Communist Party of Greece? Because at the moment the public has acted. And this debate has come to an end and has finalised the fact that it is currently public the nature of the scope and the legal status of the services. What is the reason and purpose of the question? The fact that the State has not guaranteed rights which it has in law and in relation to the declaration of the register? Or anyone else who questions the public nature of the land? I would like to understand a little more, if you like, the purpose of your question, because in terms of the documents at issue, it is clear that everything is contrary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u7	Minister, I imagine that the question is a rhetoric to ask, that is, whether we are questioning the public nature of the area. We say that the public itself, despite the fact that there are specific judicial decisions, in its inertia, seems to be dismissing this character. As you referred to some of the public's actions, I would like to tell you what should be done and what has not been done. Right now Church - are we specifically asking - registering rights for this area? So the question that comes second is this: what action has the public taken against these entries? A few days ago, from your own services, Mr. Famele, the residents of the area were informed, namely the Association of Property Owners in the area, that the Legal Board of State is pending an appeal against the Land Register and the particulars made by the Church. To date, based on the information they have given, nothing has been done. So, what you say, "We have taken action where we have guaranteed..." etc.Huh? The basic energy that had to have been done on the public side and on the side of the State's Legal Council against the records of the Church has not yet been done. Unless you know something else, so it's a chance to inform this House and this House. That is the main question. Our question is not whether it is or is not a forest. Our question is whether the public has taken all necessary and necessary steps to counter the illegal claims of the Church. Let me tell you, because you generalized it, that you are not so innocent - and as a government - in relation to this particular issue, because a few weeks ago, it was the government's agreement with the leadership of the Church. And no matter what her luck is, I live in the deal. There you agreed that there would be a fund for the exploitation of church property, in which there would be disputed areas on the part of the Church. So who dismisses rights and who defends them? This fund for the exploitation of church property is the epitome on the part of public recognition of the illegal claims of the Church, since there are questionable areas. And, unfortunately, this region could join them because it is questionable. So we want you, because the people who live in the region are also listening: What will the Legal Council of the State and your services do in order to reject the claims of the Church and put an end to the hostages of these residents?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u8	Good, Mr. Gioka. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Gioka, you will allow me to return to what I said at the beginning. What the state does, what our government does and did not dare the previous governments, is finally complete the Land register and forest maps. In the wider region of East Attica, for the first time, forest maps are being posted. In fact, we have succeeded in the forest maps, which we have posted, to include with a declared reservoir character the area that was burned. This has also been done within a very short period of time, with the efforts of the services to defend and defend the public character of the forest, as well as the forest character of the land. The restoration of this deficit, the preparation of forest maps and, at the same time, the application of legislation which says that forests and forest land which have not been recognised as private by final decisions or are granted by ownership or which have not come to third parties are land for which the presumption of public ownership applies, is, if you like, the pillar on which the management of forest land is based and the service of the interests of the State. Of course, I must say that Mr Mitsotakis questioned it in the past few days, proving how much - if you like - consistent with public property and the public benefit are that it is absolutely moving in this direction. But we do not have such an opinion. The Greek State has exercised all legal rights in both legal and judicial decisions regarding registration in the Register. But what does "forest maps" actually mean? With the completion of the forest maps, in the area, first of all, the forest character will be guaranteed. And I asked you what your view is, because I literally do not understand whether the question of the Communist Party of Greece is in favour of defending the forest and public character or meeting the needs of the people in the region. Because you're on two boats and you haven't made it clear what your view is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u10	Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u11	But you didn't answer it. And while you say that we are heard by the citizens who are interested, I did not hear from your party if you intervene in favour of publicity and forestry, in favour of citizens' rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u12	A hundred years stay...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u13	But anyway, I know that by smashing many times, we hide the truth. So the truth is: Firstly, forest maps are being completed and that is why it is worth announcing to the House that hundreds of young scientists were placed in the country's forest services yesterday - our choice and good in the Land register that ended the job very quickly - and we have a hundred young forest scientists to make the forest maps. At the same time, we have ensured that all public acts are automatically included in forest maps. Therefore, the area is enshrined in both the forest map and the character and the characteristics of the forest area. Also, we have already testified - we! - a proposal for a law on housing densities, because the area has a building density and is on a forest background, where the problem of housing and citizens is solved in a way which respects NATURA, forest, peri-urban forest, forest, stream, stream, beach and does not stray, but also solves citizens' issues. But, Mr Gioka, let me tell you that your own Member, in the debate on the budget, in front of me - I heard him - was placed against the needs of the citizens and against the resolution of the problem of housing density. That's why I'm finally asking: What exactly interest do you serve? I agree that the public should also serve the rights of citizens. So if you are with this side, where the publicity of the forest is at the same time served and the forest character of the area, but also the citizens who are in dense areas and have been deceived decades from the Greek state, you should come to Parliament when we discuss the law of settlements and say to us, eventually, whether you will make a sterile opposition or solve problems for both citizens and the environment. This is the state's consistent choice. That's how they answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u14	Not all areas are the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u15	And because next is Mr. Delis, to place the JRC hereafter: Will he support the law of housing density which solves housing issues such as those in the Nea Macris area, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u16	Not all areas are the same. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u17	What are we gonna do now? What are we going to do, Mr Gioka?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u18	Do not the Minister ask, so I won't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u19	The first under number 230/17-12-2018, the first question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Christou Dimas, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject of the "Absorbing of ESDP resources 2014-2020", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Secretary of State for Development abroad. The fourth, with number 224/14-12-2018, top-circuit question of Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, Potamios Spyridon Lykoudis, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on "They close 11 guest houses for unaccompanied children?", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister of Development abroad. The fifth question, under No. 205/4-12-2018, is a topical question by the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKY KEGROGlou to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "To extend Law 3869/10 to protect the first residence of the highly indebted households", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Pitsirla abroad. The first under number 231/17-12-2018, a topical question from the Member of the Lesbos Parliamentary Republic Mr Charalambos Athanasios to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Diffusion of the Municipality of Lesvos", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of the Interior. The third will now be discussed with number 236/18-12-2018, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece.Giannis Delis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Problems to meet individual needs in firewood of the residents of Mykes in the Regional Unit of Xanthi". Mr. Delia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Continuing the previous question, as it is the same Minister, to tell him that he and his government are making a smack of areas with the draft law on settlements. And you know, that's not for the benefit of people's needs, because there are residential densitys and settlements. There have been areas, Mr Famele, which have been inhabited for over a century. So we cannot put everything in the same bag. Let me come to my question now, let's go farther. Let's go to Xanthi, in the area of the Municipality of Mykes, in the Rhodope mountain range, where, as is known, there is very cold and people have a great need for heating. In this area, therefore, the needs of the people in firewood are not met, which could be taken - and they are entitled to them - at a reduced price. Not only do not take this amount of firewood that all applicants deserve, but also those who manage to get a quantity, it is too small and is not enough for their needs. Features are two examples: In the village of Glauki, one of the hundred eighty applicants, only ninety took firewood this year, while a family for the firewood of winter in this area of the Municipality of Mykes takes about four villages. With four peasants in this area, you can't make it a month. The cause, now, is one and she knows the Ministry. It is, of course, the great cuts that have been made in the financing of the Forestry of Xanthi, which, of course, leads to limited logging, which will then be taken by the inhabitants of the area. What we want to ask is what your Ministry will do to increase these appropriations so that the Forestry of Xanthi can allocate that quantity of firewood that the inhabitants of the region really need, which, as you know, is increased.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Delis, in order that there is no question - and Mr Gioka is also about this - that there is no case in the residential densities to include violations carried out to exploit the forest, commercial or economic, for the construction of a villa, swimming pool or anything else. We are talking about satisfying needs, which is often the housing of populaces, which we must see, but which ensures the protection of the natural environment. I, frankly, expect the Communist Party to come to discuss and have a common position on settlements, without opposition, if you like, on the central axis of politics. I also wanted to say that a proof that we are moving on to forest maps to solve problems in the region is that today the maps are posted to Hallandri, to Holargo, to Paige, to Spata and to the Sweet Waters. Today, too, a small part is posted in Thessaloniki, Mr Deli, which concerns us both - and that is how the whole of Central Macedonia ends. It is the first region to complete the obligation on forest maps. With regard to energy and heating needs - this is the important one - for the northern and mountain regions of the country, they are obviously increased and we understand that forest ecosystems are a worthwhile resource for this purpose. I would like to point out here that our Ministry has chosen to proceed with the expansion of natural gas throughout northern Greece - if I am not mistaken from Orestia to Kastoria - at a very fast pace. It's not about small villages. However, a large proportion of the inhabitants of northern Greece - and you know that in Thessaloniki we have more than ten towns that took gas this year, and I think that that's why the Communist Party of Greece will be placed positively, it's the region in which I am, you're in the First Thessaloniki - they now have gas. The fire, however, is also an important resource and we must ensure it. Let me just say to you that, to solve this, forest maps will contribute, because we will know where we are cutting wood, just to say it. We have new management standards to organize scratching, not to have a reduction in forest wealth. There is now a national strategy for forests, which Greece has never had and which is organised, if you like, this production of sustainable carp. We have also made two decisions. One is the disposal of technical timber for the individual needs of residents. The second - which concerns the region of Xanthi - is that our government has chosen for the first time to take special care of the socially vulnerable groups and to increase by 50% the disposal of firewood and 40% less for all the inhabitants of mountain areas. So far, only for one region of Drama has this been the case, and now it is valid from Florina to Evros, but for anywhere else in our country we have more than three days a year in total. But this will also be combined with new policies, which we are preparing next year, to increase the available biomass. Here I would like to tell you that there are two parameters in terms of the disposal of firewood in the area of Xanthi and the Municipality of Mykes. There is the amount sent by the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the budget of the decentralised administrations is also available. I would like to tell you here that the total amount, which has been allocated, is more than the amount you mentioned. We have, in fact, made increased funds this year - and they were given too early - in the amount of EUR 250,000. The information I have - and I will return to my second answer - is that this is not the number of beneficiaries you described, and that at the moment - according to the information we had the other day from the office - there is no pending for the disposal of firewood in this particular settlement you mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Delis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u24	The Minister's answer is alarming for the local population and their needs. We talked about the needs of the people there in Pomakochoria - that is what we are talking about now - Kentavros, Echinos, Glauki, Sminthi - where, as is well known and as you have admitted, it is not intended to pass, extend, expand, natural gas. We do not know about the rest of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace when this extension will take place, but that was not our question. You spoke about forest maps in response to this problem - I do not think they are giving an answer - and you spoke about the increase in the quantity that they are entitled to receive. At the moment, as you have said, Minister, they are entitled to take four peasants. Four peasants can't make a month. You said there would be a 50% increase, that is, we will go to the six villages, when before the crisis, before 2010, the peasants who took each beneficiary, were about fifteen - that is what we are talking about - which people then covered their needs marginally. Now, quite simply, they can't cover them. You referred to a sum of 250,000. But here I have an answer from the Decentralised administration of Macedonia Thrace, dated 4-12-2018, which says that the financing of the Xanthi Forestry amounted to EUR 109,000 and with an additional funding of 35,000, finally reached the amount of 144,000 euros. Do you want me to tell you, from an earlier reply from your Ministry, in a respective Forestry in Kilkis, before the crisis, in 2010, how much was the funding? It was over 700,000 euros. With this funding, Mr Famele, we cannot make the necessary logging to meet people's needs. Unfortunately, with what you have said, you are not responding to this problem. We'll wait to hear if you have anything new, something extra to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Please, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, I have said that I will complete the information in my second answer. So let us take the money issues in turn so that there are no misinterpretations. As far as the issues of logging and firewood are concerned, the Decentralised Administration shared the amount of 2.241,000 for its needs. The sum sent by the Ministry of the Environment, in addition, was not only increased compared to 2017, but was given too early. On 4 September we asked for the transfer of funds and, on 5 October, the Decentralised Administration had at its disposal an additional EUR 250,000. In November, we made new consultations with the Ministry of Finance and provided additional funding for the disposal of firewood, which the Decentralised Administration also took. In the district of Xanthi and in particular in the Municipality of Mykis, there was a meeting of our MPs and with the Deputy Minister of Macedonia Thrace, Mrs Notopoulou, and with the Mayor. They contacted me directly, sent additional money and we were informed that the needs were met as follows: in the Forestry of Xanthi, a total of EUR 145 000 were actually allocated. I must point out, however, that in your question you note that 45 000 euros have been granted. Let's finally make it clear what the truth is. We therefore agree with what you said now that not 45 000 were shared in the question, but 145,000 euros in the region. And obviously, don't compare it to another office. There are other geographical limits and others that are served. As far as this village is concerned, you said about some numbers that do not apply. One hundred and forty applications have been submitted. Twelve were not law-abiding. The hundred and twenty - eight were all satisfied with a statement in advance. In addition, I should like to tell you this, which is quite clearly what you are interested in. Following our contact with the Forest Service of Xanthi, we are applying a forest police provision that allows residents, more than the spatial cubic meters you mentioned, to collect the logging residues - we have been informed by the forest office that they are available and there are many - but also other incumbent, standing and distorting sections, which the forest cooperatives did not take, i.e. the forest workers, in order to meet the heating needs in addition to the spatial cubics and until 31 March 2019, so as to solve any problems, even though the funding was increased, which we received briefly. I understand that, in a need for the citizens, we must respond. So we have also contacted the mayor - who has also confirmed us to resolve this issue - but also with the Forestry and we are asking for the implementation of the new provision, which I have told you, for additional territorial cubic metres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme "Workery of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one student and an educational attendant from the 6th Municipal School of Agia Paraskevi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We will not discuss the fourth question with number 198/3-12-2018, the second time question from the Member of Parliament, Evros, New Democracy. Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Transfer of membership from the Medical School of the Democrat University of Thrace to the newly established University of Western Attica", due to an impediment of the Minister of Education. Also, we will not discuss the first question with number 2854/29-10-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by the MP Drama of the New Democracy. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the transfer of a member's position from the Medical School of the Democrat University of Thrace to the newly established University of Western Attica, due to an impediment of the Minister of Education. Finally, the second question will not be discussed under No 235/18-12-2018, the second time question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, on the subject: "Reading errors in the insurance code and in the specialty of various trade unions", due to lack of responsibility. Now we will discuss the second question with number 219/12-12-2018 in the first cycle of the MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Giannis Maniotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Inadmissible delay in the distribution to beneficiaries of the Anti-African Parks Fells for the years 2015-2017". Mr. Maniotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, we are lucky, because, in the light of the debate on the question on the DEPA question, where we will have the opportunity to talk about it, and about the DPAA scandal, we are being given the opportunity to discuss another serious issue, the issue of the distribution of 1% on the sale price of renewable energy for the seventy-two mountain villages in the country, about three hundred thousand citizens, which, based on our own legislation in 2011 and 2012, is allocated to the inhabitants of mountain villages. And to make it clear where we are, 1% is distributed directly to PPC accounts of the inhabitants of mountain villages, and the remaining 2% goes to the municipalities in order to make infrastructure projects for these mountain villages. So I come to the question that I tabled as a Member of the Argolis. However, we have tabled a question to you and the entire Group of the European Democratic Alliance is referring to the whole of the country. Especially for Argolida, it relates to the villages of Achladokambos, Twins, Arachnaios, Thermisia, Iliokastro and Agios Nikolaos. What did you receive in 2015? Firstly, you receive the money that had been collected for the past three years. You had them in the drawer. Secondly, you have received a signed and published in the Official Journal of the Government the ministerial decision to allocate this fee, which you did not change at all, so it was a good ministerial decision and you did two and a half years, in August 2017, to give the first money. This money for many households is a full pension. So are we coming today and where are we? In 2015, 2016 and 2017 with the sound government of SYRIZA, you already have all the mechanisms for allocating these funds, for almost four years you haven't distributed the money in the next period. What we are calling for is the money of this three-year period - almost four years with SYRIZA - to be distributed immediately, because it is money that the inhabitants of the two hundred mountainous villages in the country need. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u29	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u30	I am, in fact, surprised by Mr Maniatis, because in fact just before the elections and after nothing had happened in the period 2010-2014, he has come out of a KHS which set the administrative limits by ministerial decision. In 2017, I received, at my request from the Legal Council of State, an opinion which considers that this CSR is illegal and that I must bring a law to the House to define the administrative limits, which we have also done in the bill that we have just passed by a large majority a few days ago. So the fact that we had something ready, which we have delayed, is not true. What did we do, however, because it was not actually given between 2010 and 2014? And I wonder, since it was so simple, because you hadn't paid anything for four years. What we did is that in 2015 a working group was set up to draw up the allocation table. In February 2016, a Ministerial Decision was adopted, posting the table on the allocation of amounts and, of course, a one-month period was given for the submission of objections. In August 2016, following the examination of the objections, the final table relating to two hundred and seventy-two cases which were not subjected to objections and twenty cases raised - I repeat, seventy-two and twenty-sixty cases. In December 2016, the Circular called on the Circular to post the number of beneficiaries of domestic consumers by local community. Thus, the final table was drawn up and thus paid in June 2017 the total of two hundred and seventy-two cases that had no objections, we covered three hundred sixty-seven thousand consumers with the amount of EUR 17,6 million. The only question, therefore, which has remained unresolved, was the question of the administrative limits relating to the twenty cases that I have told you, which were finally resolved by the legislation which included Article 3 in our draft law and has just been passed on to Parliament. I reckon: we have received four years that had not been paid, a ministerial decision which the Legal Council of State put it down, and a step forward - we have taken all the necessary steps: we have settled, announced, posted, covered 90% of cases and the ten doubts have been resolved in a legitimate way, and at the same time we have now legislated for the final solution to this issue. I'm actually asking myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u32	I don't know who should wonder, Minister. What I have - and I will put it out for the Minutes - is the ministerial decision that I signed on the distribution of the end of the RES, entitled 'Specific charge for household consumers in areas where RES stations operate'. Minister, in the three pages of this ministerial decision there is absolutely nothing about the administrative boundaries of the municipalities that you say it was illegal and which the Legal Council of State canceled. Apparently, you've been confused. You're obviously talking about other things. Much more you talk about other things, because you yourself now told us that, before the correction of the twenty-seven objections, you made it backwards, now, and since you yourself in August 2017 paid the money we had handed you over. Question: Where is the illegality in this ministerial decision? Why is it possible for a minister to define administrative boundaries of municipalities? First of all, the Ministry of the Interior does not do so, Minister for Energy. Secondly, since it was an illegal ministerial decision, as you say, which is false that it was an illegal decision, how did you distribute the money in August 2017? What money did you give? So, because you've legally given them, the decision is legal. And question: has this ministerial decision, Minister, changed by you? Have you signed a new ministerial decision correcting it? Because if you have not signed another ministerial decision, it means either that this decision is legal - and so you did not tell us the truth earlier - or that what you are doing is illegal. Pick what's happening. However, the question is one: You have almost four years when you collect the money from legislation that we passed by a law that you voted against. This money is another pension for the three hundred thousand citizens of mountain villages. You have no right to keep that money in your drawers. You have a duty to distribute them now, not as charity, as you usually do with the various benefits. It's their money, it's the citizens' money, it's our own legislation that you voted against. So your moral obligation is here and now to allocate this money, just as existing legislation imposes it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u33	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u34	Thank you. The decision rejected, i.e. the FCH which was rejected and set the administrative limits, is dated 23 December 2014. Your decision is on 29 December 2014. What didn't you understand? One ministerial decision sets the administrative limits and the other ministerial decision, on the basis of this, goes and says how the money will be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u35	There's no mention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u36	But please, Mr. Maniottes! You make a decision, which refers to a ministerial decision that defines administrative...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u37	He's not referring.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u38	If he doesn't refer, he doesn't make any sense! You are therefore questioning the Legal Council of State. You did it in the election, like you did, you didn't pay a bill. We paid three hundred sixty-seven thousand consumers with 17.6 million and for the twenty-three communities, where there were objections and there is a dispute over the administrative limits, we solved it by legislative, final, irrevocable and legitimate. We can't follow you to the election cooking you did. They were useless, never paid. I wonder with your insistence that you come and ask for the change. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u39	When are you gonna give the money?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u40	The sixth question under number 121/1-11-2018, topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Mixed Interdisciplinary Committee of Experts", will not be discussed. The seventh question (No. 74/16-10-2018) by MP for the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Kouziou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "The planning for maritime education" will not be discussed. The eighth Question No 53/11-10-2018 by Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Aid to the Port House in view of the establishment of EEZ and the extraction of hydrocarbons and natural gas", will not be discussed. The ninth, under number 20/3-10-2018, is a topical question by MP Pireaus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "The Turkish challenge in the Aegean shall not be discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. We will be interrupting for two minutes and then entering the debate on the topical and urgent question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 8/19-11-2018 by New Democracy MPs Konstantinos Skrekas, Konstantinos Karagkounis, Christos Stagiras, Konstantinos Hatzidakis, Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis, Charalambou Athanasiou, Ioannis Antoniadis, Fotinis Arabatzis, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, Eleftherios Aegaki, Miltiades Varvitsiotis, Apostolos Vesiropoulos, Georgiou Vlachos, Mavroudi Vorides, Sofia Vultesis, Georgios Georgios Giulekas, Athanasios Davaki, Nikolaos - Georgios Dendia, Christos Dimas, Konstantinos Ah. Karamanlis, Theodorou Karaoglou, Georgios Karasmani, Andreas Katsaniotis, Konstantinos Katsafandou, Emmanouil Konsolas, Dimitrios Kyiazidis, Theodoras Bakoyannis, Christos Boukorou, Athanasios Boura, Dimitrios Stamatis, George Stylion, Konstantinos Tasulas, Konstantinos Javara, Ioannis Tragaki, Konstantinos Tsiaras, Maximou Charakopoulos, Minister for Economy and Development, Athanasios, Environment and Energy, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economics, on the "Revelations regarding the action of the former CEO of Public Operations of Gas (DEP) etc. Theodouros Kitsakou and the "sakos" hand that caused tens of millions of millions of dollars in DPA. The first question of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Hatzidakis has been raised for ten minutes. Let's make an effort to keep the time, because after the question, he also has legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the DPA - Laurentiadis scandal is not a speculative but a carabinato, a proven scandal for which criminal prosecutions have already been conducted. The government is now also called upon to apologise to the ministers for their responsibilities. What is the substance of the DEPA-Laurentiadis scandal? That the government with its mechanisms and options sought to give 80m euros to a convicted businessman, while she is allegedly presented as an expressor of the young and preacher against the interlocutory. So today, here, ladies and gentlemen of the government, we are first of all accusing you of the fact that you have appointed a Director-General to PPC a former Laurentiadis official, namely the former Director-General of the Hellenic Society "ELFE", who has 80% of the debts totalled by the DEPA, Mr Kitsakos, who is currently being persecuted by the justice, on days of SYRIZA, for malicious infidelity, for his manners in this regard. We blame you for attempting an illegal exchange of property that was committed since 2014 for money laundering. We blame you for attempting to cost 10 times above their value, from EUR 9 million to EUR 90 million, with obvious benefits for the Laurentiadis side. And we no longer blame you, but Kitsacus himself and, in an interview with the press that everything he did, he did not do it on his own, but on the orders of six Ministers. In fact, what he says seems to have been saying when he was already a CEO at the meetings of the PCP. It emerges from the minutes published that Mr Kitsakos said that "all I recommend for the exchange of land and for the valuation of ten times as high, the Ministers of the Government of SYRIZA know them". The minutes have been published in the press. Let me be more detailed: First image: What's "ELFE - GREEK CHEMICALS"? This is a company of interest in Laurente Laurentiadis, which has great debts to the DEPA, the Public Gas Company. These debts were - notice - stabilised in the period 2012-2014. I've got the painting here. It was EUR 69 million, Mr. Colleague, in 2012, 75 million in 2013 and 74 million in 2014. If that is not enough, I would add that from the 74 million we went to 83 million in 2015, 91 million in 2016, 115 million in 2017 and 122 million in 2018. And instead of debt, there was attempting to make this illegal exchange of land. This is your life and state. I'm filing the table in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Then, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to table another document. These are the minutes of the General Assembly of June 2014 in the New Democracy, when it was decided at that time with the Government of Samaras at the General Assembly that in order to continue supplying ELFE with gas, there should be a advance payment of the cash gas, not increasing the amount of loans and debt regulation following auditing by an audit firm. I am tabling the 2014 decision in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Instead, on SYRIZA, we had an increase in the loan, no regulation and acceptance of post-dated cheques. If that's not the case, I challenge you to deny it. Image 2: Former CEO of PPC Spyros Paleoyannis, who sent an extrajudicial to "ELFE" in which he called for the interruption of gas supply to the company, due to failure to comply with its obligations, therefore, Mr Paleoyannis has just done this, been expelled from his predecessor Mr Stathakis. He was expelled almost immediately. It's a strange coincidence. Even more curious coincidence is the third picture: in the position of Mr Paleoyiannis, Mr. Kitsakos is placed. Who's Mr. Kitsakos? Mr. Kitsakos, posted by Mr. Skourletis, is a party official of SYRIZA, but at the same time he is a former Director General of "ELLENIAN LIBOS", the company of Mr. Laurentiadis. In other words, you have placed the CEO of the company which had the highest debts in the company. You simply had the wolf guarding the sheep! Fourth picture: Mr. Kitsakos, in his duties he performs a series of strange actions with more noticeable: he tries to make an illegal exchange of real estate for debt offsetting between the PPC and Mr.Larentiadis' business, using properties that were multiplely mortgaged to banks, but had been committed to money laundering since 2014. Do I say so? That's what this document says. It is Mr. Nikoloudis' document, then in charge of money laundering, then in the first half of the year you placed him in your government, you made him Minister, who had committed all the properties that were then attempted to exchange against the debt. I am making the commitment from Mr Nicoludis in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Then, while the street crossing, the new man, the successor of Mr.Nikoludis, who was placed in SYRIZA, Mr. Pantelis, at the Authority for money laundering, decides to intervene, who sends a document to the ICCU dated 2-5-2017 and says to the DEPA: 'What about these properties?' I am also making this document, ladies and gentlemen. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What's next? On the same day that the document is sent to the PPA, it meets the Supreme Judicial Council, under the chairmanship of the then President of the Ice Arcas Mr Thanos, a further adviser to the Prime Minister - I say this if you have forgotten it - and a proposal from the Government for the Presidency of the Competition Authority. The judiciary therefore, on the day that Mr Pantelis sends this document with seven votes against six, decides to expel Mr Pantellis and to place Mr Zairis in his post. Since then the issue has been ignored by the Authority for money laundering. Image fifth, the properties in the deal mentioned above were valued by PPC at EUR 90 million, while the previous official valuation was EUR 9 million, a difference of EUR 81 million. Do I call them? Oh, no. They say two reports: a previous report by American Appraisal, which had been valued at EUR 9 million, and then another evaluation that was made at EUR 90 million, except for the fact that this valuation was carried out on behalf of ELFEs and was adopted by Mr Kitsakos and the IPPC. So we get to this kind of deal, which you - I don't know - characterise honesty and morality, but from EUR 9 million to EUR 90 million. I am presenting the relevant publication of the 'KATHMERINI', which has been illustrated by the two reports. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Kitsakos, while all this happens, says to the board of directors of DEPA: "I, this initiative for exchanging land, do not take it myself. I have been told by six Ministers and they name the Ministers.' I look forward to their answers. Figure 6: The gray landscape is complemented by Alpha Bank's message report on December 29, 2016. What does Alpha Bank say? In Alpha Bank, because he is a successor to the TRADE, he owed ‘ELFE’. Because ELFE does a number of strange things, it creates new companies in order to escape debts, says Alpha Bank in the report that this is an illegal and compelling process, with the creation of virtual companies and so on. While all this is well-known - and I am tabling the entire report by Alpha Bank in the Minutes - the rural government has bought it, it is raining for the government. He's still covering Mr. Kitsako and he's going on with all this drunkard. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned references, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And as a cherry on the cake comes the story of Petsite. He is a former classmate and associate of Nikos Papapas and a protagonist in photos next to Alexis Tsipras and other government officials. According to statements by Mr. Kitsakou now over the last two years 2016-2017, where these negotiations and droughts were taking place, Mr. Manolis Petsitis visits the PPC repeatedly and Mr. Kitsakos himself and says that he was visiting him as a representative of the services of the Great Maximos. The noteworthy fact is that, at this time, Mr Petsitis is shown to be only paid for by the 'ELLENIKA LIMITS' - he is also rewarded elsewhere - with the sums of EUR 200,000. It is a terrible development of Mr Petsiti, it is indeed a success story of the same and government of Tsipras, how fast a man can grow in a period of crisis even, as his previous profession - a waiter was a man, well - brought him 5,000 euros a year. From a waiter it becomes consultant and now goes to 200,000 euros in two years. But what else is Mr. Petsitis, except for a friend of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Pappas? I read - and it does not deny - that he is a tax representative in Greece of a Cypriot lawyer, Sotalia Panagiotou, who Sotalia Panagiotou is, obviously, also - the manager of two offshore - whom do you say? - Mr Laurentiadis. And what else is Mr. Soterakis Panagiotou? A co-worker and partner of Mr. Artemios, the well-known lawyer with whom Mr. Papapas traveled to Venezuela and whoever was photographed to enter Maximos. What is my conclusion, ladies and gentlemen? Around all of them, Laurentiadis, Artemios, Poppas and Manolis!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Vice President, for the record, you have a second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u44	This is, unfortunately, the comicotragic image. To sum up, therefore, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, first, lets the debts of the "Hellenic LIMITs" to be increased, without doing anything. Secondly, it removes Mr Paleoyannis when he spoke of debts. Thirdly, he appoints the Director-General of the "Hellenic LIMITs" of Mr Laurentiadis to PPC. Fourthly, it is monitoring the land exchange operation, which was committed to money laundering. Fifthly, it equally monitors these properties to be valued ten times above their value in order to be exchanged with debt and to reduce Mr Laurentiadis. Sixth, she tolerates Mrs Thanou to take the lead in the day-to-day replacement of the Deputy Prosecutor who raised the issue at the Money Laundering Authority. Seventh, it is indifferent to Alpha Bank's report on ELFE's debts and continues to cover Mr. Kitsako. Eighth and eighth, there is absolutely nothing in the Kitsaku complaints, which are reflected in the DEPA Minutes, that all the above malpractices were with the ministers to know that. And ninth, within all of this, a close minister, paid EUR 200,000 by ELFE, is linked to Laurentiadis and Artemio. Anyone who wants to, friends and friends, ladies and gentlemen, hide behind his finger can do it. But the DEPA-Laurentiadis scandal is a proven cannabis scandal. And it's - I'm sorry to say - the top of SYRIZA's iceberg, another link in the chain of latest space scandals. Remember the scandal with the immigration and control of OLAF, the contract at "Thriasios", the airport "Eleftherios Venizelos", the complaints made by one Minister against another about Soros and the secret funds. So all this is happening today and it is happening with a government that represents the archangel of clearance. Friends and friends, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I've known you since we were in college. Obviously, everyone is entitled to his ideology, his policy, his attitude. But you cannot cover with your silence and consent practices that expose your route and your party!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u45	All right, all right, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u46	You cannot continue this practice, which is contrary to your rhetoric and which, however, does not express the new one, does not express the new beginning for the place. You're squawking every day in the complexion and in the scandals. You must apologise to the House today and to the Greek people tomorrow! Things are very clear, you can't cover yourself, hide behind your finger! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-five students and students and three teachers attending from the 17th Municipal School of Peristeri. We welcome you to the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Constantine Screkas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me explain to you what the case is and you will decide at the end whether there is a scandal smell or a scandal. Allow me, before I begin, to tell you that we are interested and we will endeavour in every way to defend the jobs of those people who are currently working in this business activity. However, I will prove by what I will say that in the way that you, Minister, have unfortunately managed the problem - in this scandalous way - not only are you at stake in workers' positions, but you are at risk of the company's own viability and, of course, with unfavourable, with dramatic consequences for workers, but also in the local society, which, in many cases, lives from this activity, the very important to Greece and the Greek economy. Let me quickly describe what the case is. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Vice-President Costis Hatzidakis, said very clearly that we are talking about what? - not just for a party, but we are talking about a member of the SYRIZA energy sector, namely, the SYRIZA energy director, when SYRIZA was in the opposition, appointed by the SYRIZA Government, the government of Mr. Tsipras, CEO in the DPRK. The PPC has a large customer in ELFE. ELFE buys natural gas from the DEPA, which uses to produce fertilisers, which it promotes on the Greek market and on the foreign markets. ELFE is the largest customer of DEPA in a gas market. It follows that the appointed CEO of DEPA, the former SYRIZA energy director, has also been a senior executive of the largest debtor of DEPA, who is the ‘ELFE’. Subsequently, when Mr. Kitsakos takes over, without any approval from the board or from the general meeting of the PPA, he changes the way PPA had agreed with ELFE to repay the second debt, resulting in accelerating the debt growth, the debts of ELFE to the PPA. In fact, as Mr Hatzidakis said, from the EUR 74 million today this debt has been set aside at EUR 120 million. What does Mr. Kitsakos have been doing since he's been in charge of the DEPA administration? It is trying to achieve an exchange to pay off an ELFE debt component to the DEPA, a real estate exchange. The value of these real estate in 2011 was estimated, on the basis of a reliable study, up to EUR 9 million. After five years, during a crisis in Greece's economy and in the midst of a major crisis in the field of real estate, with a study brought by Mr. Kitsakos to the board of directors of the PPC, to TIADED itself, these properties are valued at 90m euros, i.e. tenfold, the value of the properties in the five years of the crisis has been "inflated" ten times. In this way, through this exchange, he is trying to write off a debt of EUR 90 million - out of the EUR 120 million today - of the 'ELFE' to the IPCC. But it is not only that it has scandalized the value of property in a way that is naturally controlled if it is right. These properties that Mr. Kitsakos, the CEO, former energy manager of SYRIZA, appointed by the Government of SYRIZA in that position, in the position of CEO of DEPA, are mortgaged and pre-indicated multiple times by the creditors of ELFE, but also part of that property belongs to the public, which means that they cannot be transferred and exchanged to reduce debt, if there is no public agreement. He says the Minister responsible, Mr Stathakis, "Yes, but that was not the case at the end of the day. So what's the problem?' [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Here's the problem. The problem is not that two and a half years were negotiating with Mr Kitsakos. The problem is that in these two and a half years, the alleged owner of ELFEs, Mr Laurentiades, carries any asset, but also all commercial and productive activities from ELFE to adjacent companies, so that today the IPCC is not necessarily able to exercise the EUR 120 million, since ELFE has actually turned into a deaf, a shell without any assets, without any productive activity and without any commercial activity. And not only that, but it illegally sells gas right now, without a gas license, which it buys from the PPA, to the participating companies of the same alleged businessman. And that's not all. In 2017 and while everyone knew that the commercial value of these real estates has been "weaked" ten times, the price, but also they cannot be exchanged, according to Mr. Kitsakou himself, the responsible Minister, Mr. Stathakis, instructs him to proceed with the preparation of an operational plan - business plan - to exchange these properties, while everyone knew that it could not be done. For what reason - the relevant ministers must respond, half of the Ministerial Council has come - two and a half years have therefore been delayed.Huh? Since 2015, during the three years of the SYRIZA government, all assets and activities of ELFE are transferred to participating companies of the same business, hiding behind offshore, offshore companies, etc. Why did the government allow this to happen in 2015? Why did Mr Stathakis order in 2017 and continue to give, to let it be understood that they may exchange property? Because in this way and the court, when it had to make a decision on the continuation of the supply of natural gas to the ELFE, when there was a polluting negotiation between ELFE and DEPA, of course, this element took over and enabled the DEPA to continue delivering natural gas to ELFE without paying. The "ELFE" went there and said it was in negotiation with the state and the PPC that is a public undertaking and asked for it to be allowed to take gas until the negotiation was completed. For three years, therefore, this ballot negotiation has been kept, causing enormous damage to the public interest. And that's not all. What does Mr. Kitsakos say there? In his interview, but also in his discussions with many journalists, he said: I was sent back by the government at the end of 2017, firstly, when I sent an outpost to pay the "ELFE" to the "DEP" and secondly, he expelled me because I disagreed with the monstrous price of 150,000,000 euros agreed by Mr. Tsipras' government to pay to the "SHELL" who owned 48% of the shares instead of 150,000,000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u50	Here's the second one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u51	I shall conclude, Mr President. Is it true what Mr Kitsakos, Minister of State, said, that there was a previous valuation of EUR 80,000 to EUR 100,000 000 of the shares in SHELL held in the PSC and you created a new valuation to reach EUR 150,000,000 and to charge the PSC EUR 50,000, 000, more to buy its share of 'SHELL' in Attica? And if so, why did you do that? Please respond clearly if this is the case, if you have covered Mr Kitsako for three years, and in this way you have created this huge problem in the PDP, a company that is publicly owned, a company that you are now moving on to its privatization. You have converted public enterprises, Minister, into a "washing machine" of SYRIZA-friendly entrepreneurs, and for this reason, Minister, and the rest of the government, you will answer politically when the time comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u52	Mr Adonis Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm starting too fast because I don't want to use any time from my denology. Minister, I admire you for this peace with which you are dealing with all the cases and this. Of course you were calm in 2015, when we went to the rocks and you kept predicting that the evaluation would be closed and we were finally in the Capital Controls. I say this because sometimes the calm of the face doesn't reflect what really happens to each of us. I come to the point because we're here to just talk about it. It's legally and politically impossible not to go to the Special Court in this case. You'll definitely go. You should know that right now. When NOVARTIS was built, you found three false witnesses and said things about us. And what did you all say here? You have to go apologize to justice. Here, Minister, we have the CEO you have chosen, your Government, and it comes out publicly, and blames you for the felony persecutions that he has exercised on him by Greek justice, Stathakis, you and the rest of you. So we have the witness, Mr. Kitsako, who happens to be the former SYRIZA's energy director, who comes to a press conference and interviews and says: I was carrying out orders from my chief ministers. So when majorities change - and Mr Vorides will explain this to you too, because I do not expect you to have the political dignity to do so on your own - Mr Kitsas will necessarily be invited to the House, he will say what he says in his channels and in his memoirs and the special interrogator of the Special Court and go there with your tranquility to explain all these technical details and what justice judges. I must, however, - to know and understand what the Greek people are talking about - highlight your first great lie. And when someone in such a grief case starts with such a capital lie, something has to hide. What are you saying for so many days and are SYRIZA's colleagues on the channels? But the debt was in the New Democracy, over the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u54	What about me? You did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u55	The figures are unfortunately vague for you. New Democracy ruled 2012 to 2015, three years. He received a debt of 69,000, delivered a debt of 74,000,000. So in three years, 2012-2015, ELFE's debt to the DEPA increased by 5,000,000. In fact, in the past year it has had a downward trend, for it had reached 75,000,000 the greater and went 74,000,000. Why? Because the previous administration, which we had appointed, had set cash payments and partial debt payments. That's why the debt started to fall. You've been coming for three years, 2015-2018. How far has the debt reached? From 74,000,000 you received at 125,000,000 today! Therefore, any comparison of the debt of our governments with the debt of yours has collapsed. You know, Minister, because you're laughing who knows that? The Greek justice. Because Greek justice, if you missed you, did not prosecute the previous one, but prosecuted yours. So if the debt, ladies and gentlemen, were the problem, he would have prosecuted the previous one. But he did not prosecute the former, but yours, the one you ordered him to cover Mr Laurentiadis' interests. And of course, what do we say? That the company must work and the employees mustn't lose their jobs. It is another thing that the company works and the workers do not lose their jobs, which we had ensured by stabilising the debt and what you did. I'm hanging up with Mr. Petsite. I will speak in my dentistry, especially about him, and I have enough to say. He referred to as a waiter. He was a waiter before. I honor the waiter's profession, well people do, and they're waiters and good for them. It's hard work and low pay. Mr. Petsites, however, is no longer a waiter, Mr. Stathakis and Mr. Flambury - back there - your friend. It's business consultant. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] How was Mr. Petsiti business consultant? What guarantee did business consultant become? And I close my prototype to analyze it in my dentistry, Minister, and leave you a little laugh. Ladies and gentlemen, here is the lawyer, Mr Artemios, the lawyer of offshore, who was with Mr Papa in Venezuela, on the plane of Maduro, the man who built the offshore, said Mr. Hadjidakis that Mr. Laurentiadis had transferred ELFE's assets so that he could not execute the Greek state today. And that's why some people are going to jail. So he comes out of the Maximus Mansion and keeps a bag. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] When I saw Mr. Voridis, Mr. Artemio's photograph with the bag, I realized how they thought about the great Maximus the amazing story about the running bags. On that day they were thinking, the world was lost to have a saddle bag, and we put it in a bag? That's why you're going to jail, gentlemen of SYRIZA, and you're going to get kicked off your laughs very quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is always extremely unpleasant to talk about issues of moral order, transparency and even when political people are involved. You know I've never done it, you know I've never done it, you know I'm avoiding it, and you know I always prefer confrontation to be ideological. However, one of Parliament's main functions, and especially counter-population, is to control the usefulness of each government's management. It is a basic political task, it is in the responsibility of counter-population, and the opposition must do so seriously and responsibly. In this case, what is proven and cannot be called into question? The conduct of criminal prosecutions against the CEO of PPA, on the charge of infidelity to a degree, by Law 1608/50 on abuses of the public, with aggravating circumstances. Impaired equivalent penalty. Moral Automobile: Anyone who is persuasive and taxed is punished by the sentence of the perpetrator. These are the provisions. What are the actual data? Has the management officer been conducted with damage to the property of the general public?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u58	He'll tell the court.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u59	Mr Stathakis, I am sure you will discuss these matters where we need to, but let us look at the case in principle. Answer. Obviously, there is an increase in the debts in the period when Mr. Kitsakos executes the debts of the CEO. In the first place, it is not in dispute that the figures have been submitted. Data 2. Is this contrary to a general assembly decision? This is in breach of a general meeting decision of the company, which has said that this obligation can no longer be increased. Data 3. Is there a time when the debtor, the debtor company of the interests of Laurentiadis, is there an organised method of depreciation and annihilation of any value of the company? Sure. Why? Because the company transfers all its activities to third companies, Cypriots, interests of Laurentiadis. Question 4. Is that in knowledge of Mr. Kitsaku? Sure. Why? Because Mr. Kitsakos accepts, in order to repay the new debts, post-dated checks, which are signed by these third-party companies. So he knows the depreciation, the divestment, the cancellation essentially of any value of these companies, but he continues to increase the debt. Is there any involvement in this by Mr. Emmanuel Petsiti? Yes, sir. What's Mr. Emmanuel Petsite? The interim negotiator, ombudsman of Laurentiadis and DEPA. Does Mr. Petsite have anything to do with SYRIZA and the government? Typical? Oh, no. A real thing? Yeah. Mr. Petsitis is connected, as explained by Mr. Hatzidakis, to a chain of super-voltage companies? Yeah. Data four. Does the government have anything to do with this? The ministers who are sitting here today will answer us. They were involved anywhere or made an unfortunate choice, found a party official of SYRIZA, the head of SYRIZA's energy sector, Mr. Kitsako, put him there and made all these illegal acts, crimes and damaged the company and thus the public and hence the taxpayer? Do they have anything to do with it? Answer. Mr. Kitsakos says that you knew about them and that you were giving him orders for them. He says he was in full consultation with the government. I have supported this view... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in five seconds and I shall not use my dentistry now. I have this point of view. The penal competence of the House is not to reach full judicial conviction, i.e. to judge innocence and guilt. The criminal jurisdiction of the Parliament shall be completed in the presence of simple indications and in the referral to the Special Court. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That's where our responsibility ends. After that I advise: Organize defendatively.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Georgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, because the data or rather, as we say in the criminal trial, the objective elements, which do not raise any question, are much in this case, I will go a little further on Mr Voridis' thoughts. Mr. Voridis, you didn't have time to say all the data. It's too much. I would like to say one more thing that matters very much. I imagine one argument on the part of the government will be that we continued to provide to the PCC, we have three renewals of the provision in breach of the July 2014 decision, because we were in a negotiation. The greatest fraud is this negotiation. It was a lie, it was a pretext. What were you negotiating with? With real estate held by the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority for Criminal Activities? Is it possible for the Government to negotiate a debt arrangement with property that the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority has committed itself to combating the legalisation of income from criminal activities? You call that negotiable? What was the height of the property's value is the least. The fact that some of them belonged to the public is the least. The most important to me is this: We have a prisoner owner of companies at the time - rather, he was released by the Law of Friday, at the beginning of 2015, to remember them - and while, therefore, we have such a person who is already in the forefront of justice, while his property has been committed,... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] He was released from prison in early 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u62	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u63	So while the person is at the forefront of justice, you are negotiating his committed property. Secondly, why, Mr Stathakis, when the Economic Police raided and asked for the exact control of all the dues of the companies and ELFEs and the parent company, are you making six months to intervene? Wasn't that a big matter in your knowledge? Wasn't this investigation and control by the Economic Police, not the Kavala Police Department, but the Economic Police? Did you consider it a little bit to intervene and see exactly what's going on there? Also: When has there been a decision by the General Assembly of the PCC which granted the right to the PCC, a right to the supervising Ministry to continue supplying gas and under what conditions? This 2014 decision, did anyone ever show it to you? I don't suppose it was in your name. I would really like to hear why you continued providing. Don't tell me as a reason - because we understand it completely - that it was important for the operation of the company to continue and for workers not to lose jobs, because that is why we are all in agreement. However, this is irrelevant in terms of both compliance and agreement, which must be done by the employer, whoever it is. It was knowing to you that the real employer was now another. On the other hand, the attending company - why did they actually employ the staff - what assurances did you ask for the repayment of the debt? Why did you finally leave it - because it is the numbers that are left to count - from EUR 75 000 000 to EUR 125 000 000? There are explanations and questions that are reasonable and relentless, which must be given, but what you have said to me, Mr Minister, is very important and which, in fact, needs to be answered, is this: How many times have you been informed by Mr Kitsakos? How many meetings did you meet on this subject? How many times did you call him? What correspondence did you have with him? Why does Mr. Kitsakos constantly plead, the one appointed by your Government, that there would be an interministerial decision? Why does he invoke it? Is Mr. Kitsakos lying? What he's saying is false? Was there really your commitment, was there the preparation for such an interministerial decision? What happened these two-and-a-half years? Is it important to say when you invited him, when he informed you, what documents are there for the briefing that has been done, what documents are available from the legal advisers of the DEPA? All of this, anyway, will be seen by court investigation. But what is important is that we also see the responsibility, which - unfortunately for you - is not just by omission, but it also seems to be through action. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll take the time of my dentistry, Mr. President. They are also deeds, whether they relate to replacements for persons whom you have also made, or to delays in checks and actions which were planned to be carried out by you. What the Greek people expect to hear today is this. Because in the objective data, as I have said, there are two - three features which are also undeniable. One is the characteristic of Mr Kitsakos, which, of course, one cannot eliminate, the SYRIZA strain in the energy sector, and that is why it has been placed in you, and obviously, as a very reliable person, it has been placed, as a very reliable person, in the energy sector. So you need to tell us today what he denounces is lies and what is true. That's the one. The other, of course, is also the accident, to be and to be travelled to Kavala and not just one person called the 'broker' - we have learned that from now on - which also happens to be a close person of your own Minister. The two central faces of this whole story are faces of the narrow core of Maximus. Of course, this would be a little important if we did not have one of the two faces being persecuted for felony at the moment, and this person saying that his actions, his moves, had all your approval, your consent. But, out of these, you did not do what you had to do, so that the debt of the IPCC is not derailed. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that here and in general all the scandals involved in this government, there is the following feature: most of them start with complaints from the central people themselves, which SYRIZA himself chose and placed. This has never happened before. Persons placed by themselves, persons who have been trusted by the Government, come and denounce things. It's not the only case. There's too many others. You did what you didn't hear, you deceive it. But here you do not hear what is happening within the Council of Ministers. I imagine it'll be very easy for you not to listen to them too. But the investigation of the political and criminal responsibility of people who have committed criminal offences is necessary and it goes without saying that it will also happen for that reason, it is important to prepare not just your protagonist but your apology. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Karagunis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. I'll use my dentistry time as well. I think that the honourable Members have very clearly and comprehensively described all the elements in this case. The people who are watching us understand that we are not dealing with another political controversy, but with a dark case, which, as Makis Vorides has already said, has arrived in justice. I say this on the basis that justice now has the first say in order to clarify exactly what has happened. Our obligation and, of course, the government's obligation is to facilitate and strengthen the work of justice, so that people learn exactly what has happened. Because, as previous speakers have said, precisely because the debts of the PCC have been set at EUR 125 000, 000, that is, about 50 000, more than they had arrived in 2014 - as colleagues have already said - in the years 2013-2014 had stabilised and slightly reduced, because the strict conditions for repayment have been met, you have to explain, Mr Stathakis, because you have made these conditions. It is therefore necessary, in the interests of the public interest, to clarify as quickly as possible whether it is the case of the sale of public money. And if so, that all public damage be immediately restored and that responsibility is attributed. So, Mr Kalogerou, Minister of Justice, you have to give us specific answers on the course of this case and tell us - within the limits of your institutional function - what you have done so far in order to prioritise this case, so that we can have the calibrations and findings of justice very quickly. You know they come in the light of publicity revelations that need answers. For example, today in the newspaper "TAS" they reveal the letter of DEPA sent ten days ago to Mr Pitsili and the rinsing principle, where the increasing debts of ELFE are denounced and inertly points to these complaints. Kostis Hadjidakis pointed it out in detail earlier. I do not want to come back because in addition to the main offences of felony fraud and the infidelity already controlled by justice, the incidental crime of money laundering must also be investigated. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] It is noteworthy by the PPA that they have already made continuous updates - I will use the secondary one, Mr President - for debt developments. The case shall be investigated by the competent authority from the beginning of 2017. Mr. Pittsilis also knows. So the question, Mr Minister of Justice, is at what stage is the investigation today and when will we have its findings? Do you know, Mr Kalogerou, whether the institutions of the IPCC have been called before the beginning to provide assistance or information? Mostly, have you, as a government, always at the limits of your institutional limits in any way contributed to the beginning? You should answer these questions and, of course, tell us exactly what information you have to give us. However, let us return to the essence of the case and, in particular, to the issue of the possible responsibility of your Government's ministers, because as previous speakers have pointed out, from the publications and reports of registered newspapers and in particular the newspapers "THE BIME OF KYRIAKIS" and "KATHMERINI" on 25 October 2018, it has been revealed that at least three ministers, Mr Stathakis, Mr. Flamouraris and Mr. Drasakis, were aware of the project "Zeros Lavridiadis", i.e. an attempt to clear debt towards the PPA with the captive and pre-indicated plots of ELFE". However, they had given their approval to proceed with the project at ten times as much as their actual value. Indeed, it is revealed that while they knew the problem, they discussed the issue even after the economic police raid in March 2017. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We also know that, on 13-11-2018, Mr Kitsakos obviously considered himself a defensive line for him, at this four-day press conference, he reveals that these actions were of course known and that the government was fully in agreement. It also names the six Ministers. As soon as yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kitsakos returns with an interview and denounces the government that you removed him, Mr Stathakis, when he asked for the company to be forced into management. It supports and reminds you - it is mentioned - that it has made the recommendation as early as May 2017 and immediately after this recommendation, it has come into dissatisfaction and eventually removed from the PPC. So since all this, ladies and gentlemen, concerns serious complaints, it concerns the ministers of the government and you know that if there is a involvement of the ministers, the case should come to Parliament without delay, Mr Kalogerou, you have an obligation to contribute to speeding up the procedure, by providing you with your assistance to the judicial authorities in every institutional way. And since we are talking about a rapid conclusion of the case, note something else, ladies and gentlemen. From a post of the newspaper "KATHMERINI" four days ago, and specifically from the journalist Mr. Telloglu, we are told that there is still a press report from a systemic bank against the administration of ELFE since the end of 2016, where the attempt at fraudulent bankruptcy of the company at the expense of the public, as well as virtual and undervalued transfers of assets, has been denounced.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u66	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u67	I shall conclude, Mr President. In order to understand the world that listens to us, what is actually complained of is that from 2015 onwards, the company has been turning into a deafer, after gradually starting the transfer of assets to third parties - colleagues - participating companies said so and instead of taking immediate measures, Mr Kitsakos has been negotiating for compensation with overpriced, mortgaged and captive real estate belonging, in fact, to the Greek public.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u68	All right, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u69	I shall conclude, Mr President. Introducing the "family" with the post-modernised cheques. The result is that the company has a debt of EUR 125,000,000. Mr. Stathakis, it's different to have a problematic company that you're trying to find a way to salvage another company that's getting drunk and you're making it easier for this demagogic procession, even though you're a public major creditor. Well, actually, to get back to Mr. Telloglou's revelations...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u70	Towards the end. Don't come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u71	Two minutes, Mr. President. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u72	Two more minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u73	Defendant acts are being condemned against the public in order to prevent the public from ever being able to restore its damage. If that is the case, there is a very substantial problem and question, which is as follows: How is public policy being protected for two years now, Mr Stathakis? Because if we are talking about public smuggling, the public should have already moved legally to protect it. So the question that comes out of all this is to tell us what exactly has been done over the last two years about the petition and what stage this investigation is taking. In closing my position, Mr President, I would like to make a more general comment on this matter. All this time that various complaints are revealed and made mainly by your staff, Mr Kitsako, as government, you have chosen silence. With our question today, you will obviously have to answer us and tell us more about what has happened. However, Mr Stathakis, your example is characteristic.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u74	Yeah, but to answer that, you have to end up at some point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u75	I'm done. I'm the last speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u76	You've been talking three times a year, Mr. Carraguni.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u77	Wait, Mr. President. I'm done. You have prosecuted the former CEO, Mr Paleoyannis, and you have placed Mr. Kichakos in his place, without apparently having heard of the conflict of interest...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Karaguni, 'finish' is a classic political promise. Are we going to wait already?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u79	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u80	Ten minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u81	I don't take dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u82	Good! We're on hold.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u83	So you have been denounced by the fertilizer workers that you have covered your "associated" for the exorbitant debt that has been created. No answer has been given. It had to be four months, Minister, and the economic police raid has intervened to request the resignation of Mr. Kitsaku late. The question is why you're late. I would like to point out that, as a government, you have to leave half the bills and the silence and now give answers, because we are talking first and foremost about the Greek people's money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-one students and students and four educational sessions from the 4th Gymnasium Tripolis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Buddhism has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I shall also take my speech because the three minutes are not enough. The previous colleagues have set out the evidence, which demonstrates the favourable treatment of the company by PPC, which is to be considered by the judiciary, since the issue of its criminal aspect is now there. So speaking at this meeting on behalf of the New Democracy, I would like to raise a serious political issue. Journalistic research and political documentation will be helpful in the work of justice. But here, we have your direct involvement, Mr Ministers, that is, not of independent persons, not technocrats, but of persons directly associated with SYRIZA. They're your executives. It is the persecuted Mr. Kitsakos, who comes from the energy sector of SYRIZA and the well-known Mr. Petsiti, because we have been informed that it is not America's country of opportunity. The country of opportunities is Greece, of course, just as long as you are a friend of the regime and a classmate of 1 bodyguard and instead of Mr. Tsipras. I am referring to Mr. Nikos Pappa, who was looking to do business in Venezuela before you even got to power. I don't know what you've done with business. However, normal business, imports - exports - cannot, because there to shop - go with the last number of identity numbers. But if you're not a Petit, if you don't belong to the Cesarean company, you just take the street of the hostel no matter what degrees you have. Therefore, Kitsakos and Petsiti, your executives, directly dependent on you, apparently informed you because they owed you that. You put them in these positions. You're their benefactors. There was no way these people could be found in any post, in any position, if SYRIZA hadn't won power, and he didn't look for who knows who knows from energy, who knows from geostrategic games, which Kitsakos says he knows now, etc. However, these are your issues and justice, and I do not go into appraising them. But what about geostrategic toys and energy when you were talking about energy and oil and you said, "Not even a drop of blood for oil"? I don't know where you got those executives now and they're so sophisticated that they're headed for a private company and then the PCP. In other words, he was first to the debtor of the public company to which you carried him and we have a conflict of interest. Mr Kitsakos - a member of the SYRIZA energy sector - was found to be in charge of the DEPA. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also take my dentistry, Mr President. He was such a man that in November 2016 “EUROGAS” celebrated the election of Kitsakos in the administration of the European Natural Gas Agency, “EUROGAS”. In other words, all these Europeans have been shocked that they have found such great officials from you and put them in positions abroad! It's not enough that you put them in positions on the inside! We're dealing with another case of your best friends. You do it systematically. You are not only fighting the public sector, you are struggling for the private sector. There are cases that I know of, and from the media, where you have imposed your people to go there to make your propaganda. You do the same everywhere. You go to the private sector - the minister in charge every time - and you say, "Look, so that you can have them well with us, that the ILO does not come to you, that the Labour Inspectorate will not come to you, take him as well". and you have suited everyone, both in the public sector and in the private sector, to whom you have become the brake, because these people feel your commitment. Mr President-in-Office, this will come out and there is no doubt about it. That is why, after the Petsiti multi-tool, you have also put the death penalty in the Competition Committee. I'm sorry, I don't understand who's going to control? He won't control the private sector? Won't anyone, who is your man and has been placed in so many positions, be able to favour the public sector when it violates competition? Look, the criminal matter is going to be found by justice. Be sure about this, however, the policy will solve it here and we will inform people about your practices, about the fact that you have salted both the public and the private sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, sixty-two unaccompanied refugees, who are hosted in structures in Attica. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr George Stathakis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u87	Welcoming New Democracy colleagues to the SYRIZA scandal world because...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u88	Apparently, to welcome us you're already there.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u89	Obviously, the world of armaments, the world of 'SIEMENS', the world of the tripling of medicinal expenditure in Greece over a decade, five years, I would say, comes here to talk to us about the scandal of the DEPA-ELFE relationship! Three are the accusations, and I will answer them one by one, and all the relevant points in the Minutes of the House. Who has increased ELFE's debt to the DEPA? Question: 'ELFE owes 120,000 000' to DEPA. Yes, sir. 2011 was 400,000. In 2009, the famous acquisition was made by Mr. Laurentiadis. And in 2015, when Mr. Kitsakos received from the appointed administration of the New Democracy, the primary debt was 89,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u90	At the end of 2014, tell us!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Hatzidakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u92	He's mocking us in our faces!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u93	Please. Here's the evidence. I'm tabling all the debt for the Minutes in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet! As all the speakers have heard, the Minister will be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u95	You won't question anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u96	The 74s you made 89.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u97	Eighty-nine million.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u98	We can't eat spoon!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u99	Why is anyone listening to you eating pot? Please be quiet. It's over and over!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u100	I'm filing the evidence and the details if you want. [[At this point, the Minister, George Stathakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] First practical. It was 89,000,000 when Mr Kitsakos received the benefit of ELFE to the DEPA. How many are the default interest charged by the DEPA to ELFE? It's 7.2%. If my mathematics is correct, the 89,000 of 2015 and 7,2% become 96,000. In 2017, we are not touching anything. With 7.2% they become 103,000. In 2018, 110,000. The 110,000 000 are the debt of ELFE to the DEPA concerning the management period of the DEPA-ELFE relationship from New Democracy. It was 110,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u101	Lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u102	Lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u103	Is that objective?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u104	I'm an objective man. Debt has increased...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u105	You lied! So you're guilty. That's all for the interrogator!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u106	I have not interrupted you, Mr Georgiadis, and you will not interrupt me. You took us to the Special Court, Mr. Georgiadis. One hundred ten...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u107	That's all for the interrogator!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u108	I fully recognise that the debt, according to my statistics, has increased since 2015 precisely EUR 12 million. Is my arithmetic correct?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u109	As much as late interest. Just math!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u110	In the great scandal of DEPA - ELFE, we received 108 000, 000, to be precise, debt from the famous governance and created an additional debt that we are discussing. So who really increased the debt is for granted. Secondly, why did we not cut off the gas into ELFE? So much you've done to get to the point where we can cut it off. I'm starting to testify for the Minutes. Decision of the Management Board, meeting 1166, 13-2-2013. Practical practices of PPC: "On the initiative of the Deputy Minister of Energy, Mr.Asimakis Papageorgiou, a large meeting was held in HYPEKA on 11-2-2012, in order to discuss the proposal of ELFE on temporary debt adjustment for the PPC in order to refuel normal gas. In this debate..." - I shall put it to the Minutes, I shall read the conclusions - 'State Secretary of State for Energy, Mr Papageorgiou, and the Deputy Minister for Labour, Mr Panagiotopoulos, have transferred the desire of the Government, especially the Prime Minister himself...' - Mr Samaras, I mean - 'as we find a solution. I put forward the relevant documents for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister, George Stathakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] "At a subsequent meeting of the same period, on the subject of the General Assembly on ELFE, the President informed the Management Board that a meeting was held last week by the Deputy Minister of Energy, Mr Papageorgiou. The Undersecretary said it is of the utmost importance to keep ELFE alive. The President received an e-mail from the President of the GOI, Mr Maniatopoulos, who read to the members of the Board of Directors: 'Please do not interrupt the supply of ELFE gas.' I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister, George Stathakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Next meeting in 2014. On the first item on the agenda, a number of substantial debates have been held between shareholders. The President was then given the floor, who mentioned, among others, that he has been informed that there are discussions between shareholders and that there should be a involvement of political leadership. Now we're going to Mr. Kitsaku's realities. I will not open a dialogue with Mr. Kitsako. It's obvious and self-evident.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u111	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u112	I won't open a dialogue or answer anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u113	Why? You chose him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u114	I shall say, however, the steps forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u115	We're not gonna do well here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u116	In December 2015, after Mr Kitsako took over, the issue is managed. There is a second out-of-court to ELFE on Mrs Kitsaku, where she calls on her to proceed to what extent before the DEPA proceeds to the termination of the supply. I am tabling the Minutes, which threatens ELFE by interrupting, Mr Kitsakou. [[At this point, the Minister, George Stathakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With this action it becomes clear, clear, the direction taken by Mr Kitsako by the political leadership - Mr Skourletis - to secure the PPA, as he has just taken a fresh mandate to move in that direction. It is clear from the political leadership that there is a concern to find a solution so that this big social issue - seven hundred workers, etc. - is a solution to facilitate the operation of the company. I'm going to your third class on an exchange plan, which has never been made known. So, we have a fantastic scandal. So we'll see how this evolved. So we have a meeting at the beginning of 2016. We have an inter-Governmental meeting on this issue in order to find some way to keep the company going. That is why we have no reference yet to either the administration of HICP or others on the matter of ELFE, no reference to an ELFE proposal at the time - the beginning of 2016 - that raises these issues. Now we're going to the point. Mr. Kitsakos from 15-3-2016 returns to the property issue, to the investigation of a property scenario. I would remind you that the plan for netting debts with immovable property precedes the previous administration of the IPCC. It's not just Mr. Kitsaku. There's an idea. Involvement now of the plan. So before the debate begins, on 28-7-2016, the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority's document on Judicial Income Law, where it is forbidden to divest or transfer property of the company because they are committed. So, we did not have time to start on 15-3-2016 and on 28-7-2016 it is reported that such a plan is impossible even if there was any chance, because the properties are committed. On 28-7-2016. It's summertime. That's a great plan. We're on. I can continue from there on: In 2017, before Mr Kitsakou was fired - I have all the minutes - at no board of directors, at any general meeting, at any government mandate, there is no green light for such a debate as well. In conclusion, I can present to you all the minutes of the Management Board dealing with this issue. I will therefore present them to you -18-2-1016, 15-3-2016, 6-4-2016, 28-7-1016- to show you that there is no one in these meetings to mention that this plan can or must go ahead. [[At this point, the Minister, George Stathakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's six conversations where the matter comes. There is no decision, no debate. We arrive at the famous meeting. Have I arrived in 2016? I have a lot to testify to you. I'm still in 2014. In March 2017, therefore, Mr. Kitsakos informs us. I am referring to the economic, police, etc., and whether the ministry was aware or not. On 15-3-2017, in my letter to the PPC, I ask for weekly information on ELFE's debts. I repeat, on 15 March 2017 I ask for weekly information on the debts of ELFE. Shortly thereafter - I am referring to 8-5-2017- he held a meeting with the RIS, where I informed him about the MU project. The RIS told him he had no chance of functioning and asked him to have a business plan. In the event that a property considered it interesting for the PPA, it must also have an operational plan, which it must prepare. In fact, to explain why this move would have any interest in the DEPA. Mr Kitsakos refused as he said that this plan would only be possible in case the overall solution emerged. In fact, the same meeting decides to convene an extraordinary general meeting of shareholders for the debts of ELFE. We arrive at the famous general meeting of 2017. What is going on at the famous general meeting of 2017? I've been thinking so far not to lose the flow of things. For a period of four, five months and before the official briefing by the Black Money Protection Authority, there was a debate by Mr. Kitsako on this matter. This debate has just been closed on the impossibility of such a project and we are now back in the middle of 2017, at the general meeting that took final decisions. Let us see what we have decided in this convention: Improving the payment measures by ELFE to the IPCC. In other words, at the meeting of shareholders on 17-5-2017-relevant 1915, '16' it is decided that 50% of the cash and 50% of the post-paid cheques should be paid. With regard to this stricter decision, I would like to say this: I do not remember the names of all those who mentioned, the lawyers, the offended, the classmates, the high-pays, but the recitals of this story were a hole in the water. It didn't work. Why are we going to the shareholders' general meeting - the shareholders, i.e. us, the TIAD, etc. - and we say tightening the way in which ELFE is paid to the PCP in order to defend the PCP. So what happens tomorrow to this strictening and after the real estate plan has been completed in mid-2017? He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: The court makes two decisions. The court! Neither the government nor the overruled. First: "Keep accepting 100% post-dated checks and continue to supply gas to ELFE". In other words, the court annulled, by rulings, the two options for tightening up the government and one for which you blamed us for not cutting off the gas. We have two court decisions. What does the New Democracy propose to do in July 2017? Cut off the gas?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u117	Do you have the decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u118	Of course we have the decisions. Not accepting the post-modernised checks?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u119	Are you filing her?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u120	Since then, Mr. Kaloger has started a court dispute. If the decision that came out in Kavala, if the decision that had to come out in Athens, whether the second court, etc. I cannot deal with these, because they are legal matters. I don't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u121	Because I understand it, don't you testify?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u122	I would remind you of the key point. The general meeting on 12-6-2017 decides to discount each ‘ELFE’ commission in cash by 50% and 50% later and weekly payment of a minimum amount for impairment of the total debt. I would remind you that this is only about interest. A contract with a validity of one month shall also be signed, which shall be renewed only if the above conditions are met. Why do you abdicate us for the 2014 decision of the general convention? To what is this decision different? Tell me really. I call on the New Democracy to tell me what is different from this strict decision, which we took at the general meeting of 2017, and which is trying to twist the whole system, from the previous decision that is being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u123	That's a big squeeze, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u124	We'll tell you. You just said it, but you didn't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u125	Kissed from the barricade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u126	But you said before what's different.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u127	So we have two judicial decisions. Then it's known. I'm firing Kitsaco. That's what you avoided. As the New Democracy showed today, I think it's still Kitsakos in the PDP. Why was Kitsacus fired? Everyone's mind goes to this particular subject. I remind you that DEPA is a turnover company that makes 1 billion a year, is a company with zero loans, a privatisation company. It's another privatization of the SYRIZA that overturned yours. I would remind you of them on the road because it is of political importance. Yesterday, the shares were transferred to the European company by dividing them against the EUR 535 000 price. I would also remind you that it was privatization of the New Democracy with the 400,000,000 of the Azeri who was never approved by the European Union. He was canceled by our government. Luckily, it seems. We got 150,000 more price. We have strengthened the rights of the state. Yesterday the shares - 34% - in the Ministry of the Environment with strong rights, veto coke, an exemplary privatization in my view. It follows the DEPA again in a very different way. It was to sell 66%, as it was in the program of privatizations in the previous memorandum. The PCC won't be privatized like this. Today's deal is a division of the DEPA in two. The main part, which is the infrastructure, networks and international projects - 'IGB', 'FSRU', Alexandroupolis, 'ISMET', which we discussed yesterday in Cyprus, etc. - they will remain under public control - 51% - and the retail segment will be sold, as is now required by the rules of the European market to separate infrastructure companies from the coke trade. I say this because the idea that DEPA is a company dealing with ELFE and judged by the manager, who runs from what he is doing with ELFE, I think it is a bit restrictive. Mr Kitsakos was therefore released because he was considered for various reasons not to do the job as CEO, especially in a transitional period like the one I have just suggested.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u128	Laurentiadis did well, that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Hatzidakis, I think you have more indulgent thought than this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u130	You told us you kicked him out for other things. So that's why you kept him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u131	Since your position is that half the country's judiciary, half the positions in independent authorities, half the changes of half the public officials and Mr. Kitsaktos, all of them are moving around whether ELFE's debt has been increased toward DEPA 5 or 6 million - that is - you think that the whole system is moving around...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u132	You said 12 million before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u133	I'm sorry, since 12,000. So your whole system is moving around this relationship. It's not like that. I'm sorry about that. So you need to find something better to do all these inductions or other connections you do in this regard. I'm reminiscing and closing. Today, there are two legal disputes about the relationship between DEPA and ELFE. They are the judicial actions brought by ELFE against the PPC by asking for various things, that this debt was created because the PPC had a monopoly position on the market and charged expensive gas, etc. A field of court controversy. It's a trade dispute. Second level of judicial dispute: PPC is looking against ELFE with very heavy categories since the end of 2017, asking for a complete liquidation and commitment of all kinds of assets associated with ELFE - I recall that the PPC only has relationships with ELFE, does not have either the parent companies nor anyone else - claiming what it considers to be in debt. We therefore have two major legal disputes on the substance of the dispute, whether or not it was the right way of creating the debt - this is the demand of ELFE - and on the other hand, the claim of the IPPC to a universal - I repeat - of a legal charge against ELFE and all the interconnected relationships around it in order to make the demands. I reckon: These are the data. The three categories of the New Democracy are: first, if there is a scandal, it is a 90% increase in debt by the New Democracy. Why doesn't the prosecutor bring all the administrations from the company's establishment in 2009? I guess why no complaint was made.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u134	The D.A.'s not looking alone?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u135	I don't know. You know, lawyers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u136	If you don't understand, don't tell us. In law, you're weak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u137	I'm glad you're better in ancient Greek. So she's impatient. Secondly, why has the company not been cut off? It's understandable that it's not easy to cut. It's a process where you need to exhaust all the margins. And I think that we have exhausted all the margins and made provision for the re-introduction of the seven hundred workers - who have been made redundant and for constant care to find solutions reflecting the normal functioning and at the same time safeguarding the interests of the PCC. For the property exchange plan I told you it was a short, unobjective, adventure. It is far from being said that this is something that has a scandal smell. It never happened. He had a short-lived presence. Rejected with praise. So, from there on, we have a regime, governed by two judicial decisions which have been committed by the IPCC and, at the same time, a complex system of appeals on both sides, which we all expect to be resolved in favour of the IPCC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u140	Here you go, Mr. Drasakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u141	After the speech of the Minister, do you consider it appropriate to continue the procedure? Is there an object to be discussed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u142	Don't you judge, Mr. Drasakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u143	So, you want to keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u144	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u145	All right, you want to keep going. You'll hear more then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u146	The questioners insist and want to hear the other answers. The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Kalogerou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. I shall try to place myself on the demands which were first put forward on the basis of the topical and urgent question, namely four, concerning my capacity. First of all, to make a political conclusion. At a time when the New Democracy seems to be disproved, with regard to economic issues and the country's path after leaving the memorandum, there is a strategy which is reflected in the timely question itself. The timely question is also in the form of an extrajudicial or a procedural document at some points. I am referring to the New Democracy colleagues. In one of the "because", then, there is "...because the exercise of criminal prosecution is dismantling the government's record of moral advantage...". And here is this strategy of the New Democracy, which, in every way and while we are approaching the elections, will be attempting to reflect on the world, on society, on the fact that we are all the same, there are no differences. And of course, the New Democracy - perhaps other parties - will call on the world to forget how we led to this economic crisis, what it means to smash public money, what the big scandals that tortured this country are, what time it took to investigate these scandals, how long they have been in drawers without the necessary action being taken. In this context, then, we will live through these and I fear others in the sense that fear has to do with the institutional unwillingness that can cause such timely questions. And I say 'institutional indulgence to such timely questions', because I am an ex-parliamentary, while you have a great deal of parliamentary experience, know the nature of a timely question and its limits. In my opinion, the management issues relating to the financial data of the PCC, to government supervision in the PCC and elsewhere, are a matter which, in fact, through parliamentary control and all the means of parliamentary control, must be controlled, accounted for by the ministers, and the government should be accounted for. But putting issues of criminal interest here in pending criminal proceedings through timely questions, in my opinion, is a matter. And I say this because I also have a list of New Democracy's topical questions, which are of public interest and always carefully reflected in questions. This is the second time that this has not been done, which is involved, in other words, a defendant - Mr Kitsakos, I mean - in the timely question of New Democracy. It has again been done in another case, which has once again been a correlation between the way in which criminal cases appear in the media and the criminal case in an up-to-date question. I would therefore like to remind you of what is self-evidently said above all for the fellow lawyers in the Chamber. So we also read in your topical question that through the media you are told that there has been criminal prosecution. So, Mr. Hatzidakis, never proved scandal. We are at the stage of criminal investigation. One of the prisoners. Mr Kitsakos, following the exercise of criminal prosecution, has acquired a specific status. This status is the status of the defendant. It is therefore also presumed to be innocent. He's a defendant, not a witness. Mr. Georgiadis, you said Mr. Kitsakos was a witness. She's not a witness. He's a defendant who's presumed to be innocent, who can claim what he wants, to the extent he wants, to any time he wants. You know them, we don't have to say the same thing. So you have put as a basis in the question as a given question, namely, what justice is investigating in its case if infidelity is established. Has Mr Kitsakos done, in the performance of his duties, infidelity? Who's investigating this? Justice is investigating it. As far as infidelity is concerned, I would like to say this: you know, Mr Voridis - because you have dealt with it - that in order to ensure that infidelity has occurred first, final damage and, secondly, that the rules of custody that he had to show, etc. have been violated. This is in relation to the legal issue. In relation to this, that is to say, whether there has been a definitive loss, and whether there has been good administration and proper management of operations during the term of office of Mr Kitsakou or of anyone else, he has responded specifically and in detail - as well as whether there is a definitive loss - Mr Stathakis in relation to his duties, the supervision of the PSC. If the police, if justice - because we are in the context of interrogation - finds out more, justice will see them. So make a political remark. Watch out. You are bringing Parliament an open criminal case, commenting on things and wonders that we will see and then, when you have called on the government on several occasions, even on political comments, on political comments on criminal matters. Do you want us to agree whether there are two measures and two weights on what it means to me to comment on a criminal case, to comment on criminal matters and, above all, to what is provided for in Rule 86 of the Constitution on this parallel path of criminal investigations and Parliament's powers in relation to criminal responsibility, what else will we discuss in this Chamber in the context of topical questions and what is our measure? What's the measure? Mr Karaguinis, you have asked me some questions and because I am diligent, I will end up trying to answer even these questions that you have raised and which you have not included in your timely question. You've been addressing me four things. I want to make one more comment in relation to Mr Kitsako. So you say that it is a scandal, and indeed proven, when it is being investigated by justice, he says - note - that he is innocent and that he has not taken any action that has been harmed by the ICCU. I don't know if we know anything else. Has Mr. Kitsakos confessed to committing the crime of infidelity? It doesn't seem to me. I don't know if it comes to you. I believe, therefore, that he says that 'I have not committed infidelity' and he says 'I have not committed infidelity and what I have done is in government knowledge'. Take note here of the paradox, which you are raising in the timely question: the defendant, who can claim what he wants - and I say again - is unreliable on the basis of your timely question as to whether there is or is not any damage to the subject and whether infidelity is established or not, but is reliable for what he says about the government. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And all this, ladies and gentlemen, is happening when it comes to Mr Kitsako and what he says and what he does not say here, in my opinion, we should not discuss anything, so that we do not have two standards on how criminal matters come and how they are discussed in this Chamber. So let's go to the four questions, which are addressed to me: The first question, which Mr Hatzidakis has asked me, concerns the matter of the independent authority, the energy of Mr Pantellis and his replacement, on 2 May 2017, by the Supreme Judicial Council. Mr Hatzidakis, I must correct you, give you the full picture, so that we can reach agreement on this. Prior to the placement on May 2, 2017, there is another administrative act, which precedes it. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'll take the time of my dentistry, Mr. President. Who's that? The Minister's question. Why is the Minister asking the Supreme Judicial Council a question? The Board of Governors shall elect the Chairperson and the Deputy Chairperson of the Authority. Because there's an objective event. What? That's the end of the term. So then, then, the then Minister, Mr. Kontonis, has sent a question about whether or not to renew and not to appoint a president at the beginning one month ago, on 3 April 2017. The Supreme Judicial Council does come and meets, as you have said, and takes a decision. Who appoints the Supreme Judicial Council? The government? You spoke about the president at the Ice Bay. Yes, sir. How many members does this Supreme Judicial Council have? Eleven. What are the permanent members of the Supreme Judicial Council? The permanent members shall be the President and the Advocate-General of the Ice Bay. The rest of them are booked once a year. That is why the Supreme Judicial Council has decided to change, to appoint Mrs Zairis and to replace Mr Pantellis. If Mr Pantelis - because I now speculate, I cannot, I cannot and should not have an image - decided on 2 May that he should send any request to any authority, that is something that he can investigate in other ways, in my opinion, because there is a Committee on Institutions and Transparency dealing with this committee and how they operate. Because you leave a hint. Don't leave insinuating. You denounce that the Supreme Judicial Council, by means of a process, because on 2 May Mr Pantelis sent this document - because that is what you have insinuated in the timely question - has decided to change it. That is not the case, because the question has been preceded by the main one - and I will give you a document - Mrs Zaire, the new president, was set two months later, on 7 July 2017. That is why the nomination procedure of the Deputy President of the Authority was not completed. These are two documents, the first question from the four you have put. [[At this point the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Michael Kalogerou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I close, because you have specific questions in relation to this, that is, the three of the four questions concern the beginning. I, as I have told you, sent your timely question to the beginning. The principle has answered me the self-evident thing, which we must know, unless we do not know that we do not know it or even more dangerously, if we do not know it: "In reply to the above, we know that the independent authority referred to in the title carries out in any case the tasks assigned to it in accordance with law 4557/2018. The functioning of the authority shall be governed by the principle of confidentiality, confidentiality. It is therefore not possible to provide information, in addition to the reports of the authority, transmitted to the competent prosecutor, in the event of an infringement of the relevant legislation.’ This is in relation to the three questions. So the answer is that. [[At this point, Minister Michael Kalogerou presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] We are coming to the last question, which you did not expose orally, I do not know if you will put it in your dentistry. I told you about Mr. Pantellis and Mrs. Zaire. This document responds to the stage of the investigation by the Anti-Fraud Authority and what action has the President of this authority, Mrs Zairis, taken to investigate this case. The fourth question to me is how many demands for a temporary order to continue the supply of gas from PPC to ELFE were submitted by the second company and how much time they were examined by Greek justice. More implied. So, because there are chosen lawyers in this Chamber, how is the definition of a temporary order, the distance between the submission of the provisional order, the discussion and the decision making, known or not? We also know in the countryside, but even in Athens, within the same week, many times when the president - because the president defines the courtesy - if he considers that there is a great reason he is discussing today, he is discussing the next day, taking the decision the next day. You know these in relation to provisional orders. So if you want anything else, if you want to create impressions about the temporary orders, I tell you that you don't need to, because we know the whole process. If you have something to report, very nice, we are done with the timely one, you will go to the judges of the courts, you will go to the leadership of the Supreme Court, and you will say that "what happens, to discuss the next day temporary orders and the subsequent decision-making, is illegal, it is not happening, something else is going on, investigate it." And so we will all be consistent with our legal seriousness. However, since you specifically asked me, I tell you that there was a provisional order debate in Kavala on 10 July 2017. It was discussed the next day in Kavala and the decision was adopted on the same day. Subsequently, insurance measures were identified, then an interim decision was taken which said Kavala was unauthorized and the case was transferred to Athens. On 18 September 2017 a call was made by provisional order. On 22 September the provisional order was rejected. Three interim orders were subsequently lodged on 29 September. On 2 October - I say the dates from which the normal flow of things emerges in connection with the debate on provisional provisions - the decision on 4 October. On 5 October it was lodged, subsequently rejected, on 6 October, 9 October, it was rejected. On 9 October it was rejected, 11 October, 12 October, the third provisional order, which explained why it rejected, why the others rejected unnecessarily, not unduly, that is to say, the'rejects'. So he said that we are not giving you, gentlemen, because the interim order of the Judge of the Monomele of the Kavala Court of First Instance is valid. What are you coming to us? That's what I said. Until the legal proceedings have been instituted. Is that what I'm telling you? Oh, no. Says who? The judgement of 372/2018 adopted at the beginning of January 2018, which I will certainly be tabling in the Minutes. This decision determines the entire route of provisional orders. He analyzes the court here and says when they were filed, discussed, rejected. "With the right clarification, recitals...", that is what I said to you, "...which fully harmonizes that the provisional order of the First Chamber of First Instance of Kavalas remains in force. Consequently, the request by the applicant for the revocation of a statement of reasons as a temporary order other than that of an unacceptable judicial assessment, since the Greek Code of Civil Procedure does not provide for any revocation of a statement of reasons and in particular an interim order which, whether considered to be a summary judicial decision or a simple order of the court in the form of its administrative act, cannot be revoked or in a clarification of that order, etc. on the other hand, it is unfounded that, according to and according to the main paragraph of the present, the provisional order of the President of the First Chamber of Kavala retains the validity and after the decision of the Single Chamber of First Instance of Kavala’. So this decision comes and what does it do? Temporary - because it is insurance measures - forbids the PPC to discontinue the supply of natural gas, obliges PPC to supply, obliges the Hellenic Chemical Fertilizers, "ELFE", anonymity Company to pay a weekly payment to the requesting public limited company under the name "PUBLIC" with the delivery of post-paid cheques and up to six months after their delivery the amount of EUR 98,000 per week. This was decided by the court on a provisional basis until the action referred to in the judgment itself has been filed. In a document from the Athens First Chamber, which came to me, we are told that this lawsuit was discussed and no decision has yet been taken. I apologise, to the limits of my own decency, and of course always in my own duties, for the fact that I am discussing an interim decision here - I think it is self-evident that what I am saying - in view of the fact that a court has, thankfully, met and is expected to adopt this decision. Why, otherwise, in my opinion, these are dangerous things. I'm saying, I think, in the clearest way. I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for the time. I will also submit the documents I have told you on the matter of the Supreme Judicial Council. Mr. Karaguni, I'm not supervising the AIA. Remember what the law is and what the framework governing the AIA is. Are you asking me to call the president of the independent authority to say "What are you doing?"? I got it. Second, monthly reports. Because you have put them, and because I will not be the judge, nor the judge, nor the prosecutor, whatever you want in the context of parliamentary scrutiny - and you know that I am diligent - if you had included it here, I would have sent it where it was to give me the answer where the monthly reports are. For any references, Mr Karagunis, you want to know the evolution and because you have been to the Ministry of Justice, you always know that we ministers are only informed about the procedural process. So to the limit of my institutional role, you ask me to intervene, to speed up - you said - these procedures, if I have listened well. I'm sorry, but I want, because I'm a new Minister, you can tell me how this is going to happen, and if I'm gonna step in, I want to intervene to speed up something. Do you know the problem, Mr. Carraguni? Perhaps I should like to intervene in order not to speed up cases and glean for years, creating confidence in insecurity and lack of rule of law. [[At this point, Minister Michael Kalogerou submits for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, too. The Vice-President of the Government - Minister for Economy and Development Mr Drasakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u149	My view was that this question should not have come, ladies and gentlemen, at least on this subject. Since he's here, we're all here to help clarify the problem. I say this for this reason: if there were no interviews by Mr Kitsaku, would you ask a question? Has there ever been a question in Parliament about the debts of the IPCC? If it were so serious, and you were so concerned about the issue of debts in the USA, why did not one have to ask a question about it. All the questions that have been asked and all the pressures that we have received were those of the ELFE. I shall refer to that later. Secondly, the question, as you know, is a higher form of parliamentary control. We have the written question, we have the timely question. The question is a very useful institution in Parliament for issues of greater interest, which is why all parties are being given the opportunity to speak. I didn't see much interest in the parties. They may come - and I wish they could come - to be placed. It was not an issue that caused a wider interest either in Parliament or in the press. But, as I said, everything allows for a positive element to emerge, and already the position of Minister Stathakis and then the information of the Minister of Justice has shown that there is no question of a scandal involving the government. What is there, however, is a huge problem, a bucket of legal and judicial complications concerning the ELFEs and perhaps another opportunity to discuss this problem, what we will ultimately do, how we will ensure that this operation, the production process and so on, and the position of the workers are ensured. I have to say to you - it has not been mentioned here today - that among the many things we have been concerned about, because we have been concerned about this from the point of view of workers, even the issue of forced management. We were prepared to make such a move, but unfortunately this was also a prerequisite for the banks' synergy and for an investor to be able to initiate this process. I have listened carefully, firstly, to Vice-President Hatzidakis, but also to all the speakers. What I heard here is three phrases: 'he sought to give the government', 'he tried to sell the properties' and 'they knew'. These three phrases haunt the whole scene. He tried to sell. Selled? 'To give'. Is he happy? We are talking here about something that might have been intent, but it has never been accomplished. Secondly, 'they tried to sell the properties', which we find could not be sold, since they were committed. So, second case being discussed. And thirdly, as a category, 'all the ministers knew'. Should they, ladies and gentlemen, be a Vice-President of the Government, or a Minister, to know that LARCO has debts? Is it to be an expert to know that HALYBURGIKI owed PPC for years and cut off its current the other day? Does it require a governmental capacity to know something that the press writes every day? Therefore, because there is no issue, I want to take advantage of my presence here to explain, as far as I was concerned, firstly from what perspective we have been faced with. And I would just like to stress that the issue of the government was not a matter of DEPA. It was a matter of workers in the BFL, as we remember many older people in the Chamber today and a productive activity, which, as a New Democracy colleague rightly said, is a zoonic, critical lung for the Kavala region. And we do not hide that at government level we have dealt with various qualities and often discussing what solution we can find, as we have dealt with - and, as I have said, we are dealing with the case of Larco, in the case of Syros shipyards. This is Mr Flavouraris, but also Mr Pitsirlas, who then had one responsibility, to say how much thoughts were made to find a solution. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] Also, as regards MARINOPOULOS and my office as Vice-President, we had held a wide-ranging meeting involving the banks. What did we do? We tried to help find a solution, because the solution to MARINOPOULOS, obviously, was not a question of government, it was a question of banks. So these actions have been taken by our government and I believe others. I think we should be doing this, that is, looking for solutions, especially when it comes to unemployment, employment and also to critical productive activities. What matters, however, is the institutionally valid and formal decision. So the second point I want to make - although it has appeared - is that, on the subject we are discussing today, there has never been a decision by a government body, neither by the CSY nor, obviously, by the Council of Ministers, which means that although discussions were held, they were in the sphere of exchanges of views, consultation. As I told you before, Mrs Jackson, when she was a State Secretary for Industry, had taken some action, she had taken some initiatives. But never, as Vice-President and President-in-Office of the Governing Council of Economic Policy, came the matter, which means that any idea that had not matured to take the cloak of a government decision. The third point concerns my personal participation, where - as I understand it - it consists of a position of Mr Kitsakos in an interview, where he said that at a meeting I said: 'Be careful not to cut off the gas, because we are interested in workers, but care for and not to raise the debt'. And you wouldn't say the same thing? What's the harm here? Isn't that the point? I said to him "see what you can do and what you can do." But why did you put my name on it and even make it look first? To come here, to apologize - as some newspapers have written - and to show that the entire government is involved in this scandal and the Vice-President is certainly involved. Indeed, I have heard Mr Georgiadis - who has left - and now I understand what dreams Mr Georgiadis is seeing at night, especially courts. Or does he think of other things, do he have other dreams? Exiles, huh? Let the Greek people see how some see their return to power. I'm not all saying, but at least some of them. Therefore, if something has to be concluded, it seems that there are responsibilities and there are also questions to be investigated, for example, how this complex legal box called ELFE was created, how the debts were created. As the Minister explained later, resurrected, they reached their present levels. How did it come to be checked for dirty money laundering and all this before 2015? And I wonder whether it has ever been taxed or other control over ELFE. And if it didn't happen, who's responsible? And there are many other questions. So the problem of the New Democracy is that it has a vital need to go to the elections with a list of scandals - in introductory terms - because a balance needs to be created. On the one hand, there are genuine scandals that are being investigated, on the other hand, there must be a counterproductive picture. The tragedy is, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that whatever stone we raise in Greece, we will find something yours underneath.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President, and indeed in time. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, eighteen students and students and two teachers from the 3rd Grade of Argyroupolis. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I should like to inform you that you are following the timely question procedure, where Members of a party - and at the moment, the Members of Officerial Representation, the New Democracy - have developed a matter for some mismanagements, as they believe, regarding the PCP and the relevant ministries and colleagues of all parties are placed, in order to have a fruitful dialogue and a debate. The Minister of State, Mr Flamouraris, has the floor. Minister, you have ten minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u151	I really thought that after the intervention of the Vice-President and the admonition that made you stop the debate here, you would have accepted it, but unfortunately you did not have that power - it seems - that is why I am going to refer to this fact. I would also like to ask whether I have been involved in the management of the DEPA. It is clear that there was no participation of me in the management of the PCC. What existed - and there will always be - is in relation to ELFE. And when I say about ELFEs, I mean in particular about the possibility that ELFEs and any other production units in our country should be able to operate well-savingly, with the possibility of respecting labour rights, with the possibility of not exploiting and taking the public money, so that they can earn things. It is something that the whole Chamber knows, but you, too, have been in the government for years, to what extent, in recent years, this has been exploited. When in July 2016 - why is the question 'with what competence'? - there was a lot of protest and march from Kavala to Athens, the redundant workers and the "ELFE", along with GSEE, visited by protesting the Maximos Mansion, in which I am based. And I accepted the workers, and I did well. The request they made was that the employer has a shitty behavior, he has fired about two hundred workers. The second day, after we discussed, they call me and they tell me that he started suing the sacked workers, saying they were being raped, in order not to pay them the compensation, after he fired them. Why do I report this? I mention this because in your question you are not at all concerned with the cause. I just feel - I wish I would fall out, but unfortunately I do not fall - that you have proceeded to the question without looking seriously and in depth. In my opinion, you have made use of an interview, which basically said nothing about Mr Kitsako, and following what you have unfortunately started for some time now with tension and more intenseness in recent times, to implement the dogma mentioned in your conference and in this Chamber, that what you must do is not only cancel the SYRIZA's political act, but also to intervene and intervene in the SYRIZA ideological speech and its intentions, even in his thoughts. I think what you are doing today with the question is part of this second part. I therefore hope, and I believe that, following today's debate, there will be a deeper thought, an attempt to relocate your opposition tactic, so that at the end of 2019 we can actually move to elections in a calmer climate, not to such polarisation, so that the programmes can be submitted. I hope so, but I do not believe that it will be because, in order to compare programmes, there must be programmes and programmes only exist from us and we are doing so. Unfortunately from you for four days now, in the budget debate, we have not seen - I hope you will now prepare it in the run-up to the elections - and we have not seen a coherent programme that will lead the country forward. About our topic now. They called me again, they got back down and we faced with the workers, with the GFCM, the problems they had. The first problem was to reinstate workers, stop persecution and compensate those who are not reinstated. That is what we have tried and after a long time it has been achieved to a great extent. However, what the workers at the same time had to say was that the company should be able to move the goods, because there was a serious problem: from the banks the accounts had been closed, there was no possibility of them being issued by ELFE, and so we - and I particularly - invited the banking system to the end of July and raised this issue. The answer from the banking system was that under no circumstances do they discuss, they do not deal with Laurentiadis. After this placement of the banking system, you understand that there was no way the market could function in the area as Laurentiadis wanted. That is why we issued a communication from the Press Office, which we said we would try to restore calm in the region, because, as many people know, there was very serious concern in Kavala expressed even by taking over the SYRIZA offices in the region. Since the banking system in which ELFE's debts were more than EUR 100,000, more than that due to the DEPA, it was not acceptable to have a debate with them, we proposed a solution which could only be implemented if a new investor, as was found in the case of MARINOPOULOS, was succumbingly to the issue, as was the case at Syros shipyards and ended in a sense, as is being sought and hoped that in a week or so, the issue of NAYTTRARICA will be found and solved, as is the case with ELINOPOUNIA ZACHARIA S.A. and for LARCO, as well as for various industries and production units. I want the Greek people not to forget that we have not brought them into this situation. Those who are being cut today and denounce are those who are, as we say, the old political system, which brought the country's productive base to this mess, and we are trying to rebuild it through difficulties. So the proposal that is being made, there is and still needs to be sought is: a new investor, a reorganisation of the company and an appeal to 106b, so that both workers and suppliers can be compensated and that ELFE can actually operate with new opportunities and new prospects. That is what we must all contribute. I think the question, which was asked today, did not have that objective. I hope and believe that when this process is over today, there will be a contribution so that we can jointly achieve the objective that I have just said: to find a new investor, to restructure the business, to satisfy the workers. All this will be done by appealing to 106b, which will give a solution to this particular problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much to the Minister. We shall continue with the speeches of the parliamentary representatives. I call on Mr Tindemans on behalf of the New Democracy to step up the process. You have 12 minutes, Mr. Colleague, for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely interesting when New Democracy is invoked by ministerial lips to increase political pressure and public life, and indeed the New Democracy is invited by SYRIZA to lower the tone so that a debate can be held in the run-up to the forthcoming elections. I imagine you're getting some kind of British humor, Mr. Ministers, as long as the weather is over! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, in the context of this question, the government follows - I am sure the Minister for Justice, who was a little more intense, because he does not have a responsibility and knowledge in reality, simply responds to this particular minister at the time - the other ministers are following the Stathakis project, known as the Morpheus project, which means that I am slumbing the questioners completely with an unrelated answer, hoping that the matter will pass and be forgotten. This is the government's response framework in general, but this is followed whenever the government has its nest. Let me get this straight, let me get this straight. Because he asked us with some kind of sense of humor - I have to say that it was not British - the Vice-President, Mr Drasakis, to resign from the rest of the debate and to get everyone to our home to eat, noon is even. In Corfu, we eat pastis at noon, when days of celebration are near. So that is what Mr Drasakis advised us. We are good people of faith and are ready to accept ministerial and vice-presidential falsifications. But let us see what we are about to accept, ladies and gentlemen, as reasonable and normal, so after we have accepted it, Mr Flambourari, you will allow us to apologize for it is certain that your time is valuable and badly spent and that we are bringing you people seriously and in any case - without saying - of great age, we are running you here to answer. So let us see what we have here, ladies and gentlemen. We have a state-owned company over the times of a 'bad', 'anti-lingian' government of 2014. That 'bad' government of the 'hearted' people what it is doing on its day? It says: Excuse me, but I in this state business cannot continue to supply gas to the ELFEs. Furthermore, in addition to this, the independent authority for unleashing over the days of the ‘bloody’ governance of ‘placed-up’ commits all the properties of ‘ELFE’. These two are not disputed, but, in fact, I will submit to the minutes again, after the Vice President, Mr Hatzidakis, and the copy of the minutes of the General Assembly of the PPP and the practical record of the principle which binds the properties for "living". [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos - George Dendias, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In fact, at that time, ladies and gentlemen, there is a study that says what? It says that ELFEs can serve up to 70 million to serve debt. That was about the debt at that time, which is why everything else is being done. There's a revolution going on, the populist government is leaving and the government of the people comes to power! In the days of the government of the people two things happen. A Mr. Paleoyannis is nominated. - Am I right? With the many names we are in trouble with this public company - who considered that they put him there to do his job and try to collect the money owed to him by ELFE and at the same time to the Anti-Fraud Authority, the Deputy Prosecutor Mr Pantelis begins a process of taking action from the point of view of the principle. That's what was said here, and that's how it is. He's not in doubt from anywhere. Oh of the miracle, they disappear from the foreground both, and Mr. Paleoyannis and Mr. Pantelis. I will not go into justice matters. I speak very carefully. Mr Pantelis was replaced and since then no other energy has been seen. We are now coming to the DEPA. We are looking for a new manager of the Greek people's money. It's chosen, oh of the miracle, who? Mr. Kitsakos. What's Mr. Kitsakos? Mr Kitsakos is an employee of the biggest debtor against whom the previous administration was preparing to take measures, as was the authority preparing to take measures. So, in the time of popular dignity, the one chosen to manage the money of the Greek people is the employee of the great-minded person who is also accused of "loving". Normal, gentlemen of the New Democracy! Why are you bothering the ministers about something so remarkable and normal? Aren't you ashamed? Aren't you really embarrassed? Of course, Mr Kitsakos proves with his presence at the helm of the state-owned company, namely the money of the Greek people, the merits of his choice. What's he doing? First of all, it reduces the debt. So he's getting it at 75.3 million. Inaccurately what Mr Stathakis said, ordinary trade union villains. Mr. Stathakis, when he was a kid, had been a trade unionist in Newcastle. He's got a few left, then! Takes delivery number between the two SYRIZA administrations and loads it in the New Democracy. He wasn't 89,000, he was 75,000. Mr. Kitsakos takes the operation with 75,000 to be due to the Greek people and reaches 122,000. Costless management!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u154	Is 75,000,000 good management?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u155	But that's not good enough. That's the least. Listen to the nicest thing, because when someone files documents that they have not read himself, he finds his trouble. In order to demonstrate the good management of Mr. Kitsakou, Mr. Stathakis and the management of the PPC, he brought some practical general meetings that would supposedly prove from their reading that the work was done properly. I would like to read to you this: One, obviously innocent - does not know what is going on there - the Legal Service Director says in the minutes that he is asking in writing for "ELFE" and "ELLAGROLIP" - I will tell you what "ELLAGROLIP" is - elements by extrajudicial invitations and letters that have not been given. So he's asking the debtor for evidence. The CEO enters, Mr. Kitsakos, and what does he say? He observed that at the present stage and mediation of the negotiation process, it is important to avoid moves that could cause problems. So do not ask ELFE or data at this time. That's what good administration does! What else does the good administration of the debtor's meritly selected employee do? It takes all the assets from ELFE, where the debt goes up and passes on to three other companies in Cyprus, to the companies "ELLAGROLIP", "PFIC" and "CENTROFARO" - known names, large companies! - which, by their own cheques they give to the DEPA, pay 50% of the gas that they take from the DEPA and the rest of the "in the air". This little game goes on and of course it leads to what you see, the debt goes up. But, ladies and gentlemen, is it not all right? Isn't that reasonable? Aren't they in the context of good management? Why, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, are you disturbing the Ministers? Why are you disturbing Mr. Stathakis when these things are manifestly right? There is no business in Europe that does not follow exactly these practices! And the machine goes very nicely and raises the debt and the ELFE, which has become a shell and has left all its assets and the workers for whom you are staying, go to three businesses in Cyprus, who, Lord, is also the Greek people "pays the marble", because they are increasing the debt. Everything goes well and fine and our people's government continues its work until suddenly what happened? Someone can't get in the way of the financial police. They've been tightening up here now. All this is gathering, going to the Economic Police, and then the government is suddenly energized. And, of course, through the present Minister, with the courage of Alexander, he solves the Gordian bond dismisses Mr. Kitsakos, delivers him to Greek justice! By an anonymous letter Mr Kitsakos is currently facing these accusations, not that the Minister sent him to justice! Don't overreact. Not that kind of SYRIZA seasons. Let's send no one of ours to justice. Jesus, Apostle! Shame on things! So all this is happening. Here comes Mr. Kitsakos, he goes to justice, and what does he say? He says, “What are you telling me? That's what the ministers told me to do with me. Why do you blame me?" Six. Not one, not two, not three, not four, not five, but six, half of the Ministerial Council. And we are here today, before you. I don't know if I forgot anything. I may have forgotten, because there's enough missing. For this story, shown by the New Democracy Members, the government response is: “Why are you bothering us at lunch? Why don't we all go home and eat?"
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u156	Oh, shit!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u157	Patsy, me! For the rest, I don't know. This is the management of public money! That is the way to deal with transparency in the public sector! The fact that the principal debtor was allowed to appoint the manager of the creditor, to become a shell, to pass all its assets to Cypriot companies, to increase the debt and to make the Greek State laugh, therefore there is no answer. Zero, absolutely zero. Ladies and gentlemen, there are limits. The limits are set by two parameters: common morality and common sense. This management also violates morals and logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr Teddy, also in time. Mr. Morfidis has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Dendia, we said it would be a good thing after the ministers' positions and the evidence they submitted, to go to dinner and not before. We think some things have been broken down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Teddy, you don't hear and write down what you're saying in the Minutes. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Dendia, don't go along with all those who lure you into such actions, because at the end of your party the pity will fall. Ladies and gentlemen, this question is absolutely characteristic of the opposition strategy followed by the New Democracy. The recital to the question he tabled concludes: ‘Because the exercise of criminal prosecution abolishes the government record of moral advantage’. So what New Democracy is desperately trying to destroy the moral advantage of the government and the Left, in general. It is precisely this point on which it is constantly and in diverse ways. With this perseverance, however, it only succeeds in confirming the existence of this advantage again and again, because why would one come back to something that has already collapsed? Therefore, because it cannot hurt this absolutely very powerful advantage of our Government, it is in every way trying to create shadows. It attempts to do so in a completely artificial and coarse way. A careful reading of the question shows that he lacks gravity despite heavy papers, the heavy names that sign it. She completely lacks the documentation and a somewhat coherent set. The recital is filled with expressions of the type ‘according to media articles’ or ‘according to yesterday's publications’ or ‘according to what he claimed at a press conference’ or ‘according to periodicals’. Instead of documentation, the question presents a stitching-up of publications. Needless to add, these publications are based on presumptions from the New Democracy-friendly media. So, opposition ultimately claims things unsubstantiated. For example, the current government is supposed to be responsible for ELFE's debt to the IPCC. The claim is completely untrue, which is evidenced by a simple look at the chronological development table of this debt if we take it from the start. If we take him out of the middle that suits us, we can draw any conclusions we want. With all this practice, the New Democracy is attempting to shade the moral advantage of the government. Yes, I am. Furthermore, it is interesting that the New Democracy is not trying to prove that it has the moral advantage itself. How'd he do it, anyway? He's just trying unsuccessfully to create the suspicion that we don't have it. Somewhere there, in the macroskept text of the question tabled by the thirty-seven Members of the New Democracy, there is also the phrase 'insecure the work of hundreds of workers'. Six words within a three-page page, indicative of how and in how the Civic Opposition assesses the real needs of the Greek people, workers concerned about their decent living. For our own government, however, this is a central point in the case we are discussing today. I guess I don't need to remind you who opened the way to the extension of Laurentiadis to the Kavala Phosphoric Fertilizers industry, who sold the country's only composting industry. It is also known from the result that the activity of Laurentiadis has been disastrous in many respects, but mainly those affected were workers and therefore local society. Once BFL reached Laurentiadis' hands, developments for the workers have been devastating. Initially, he attempted to promote temporary staff at the plant's permanent posts despite the legal constraints. Afterwards, a psycho-corruption tactic was launched with the pretext of the company’s financial difficulties. Subsequently, workers were forced into a new business contract, accepting good faith - because of the economic crisis, of course - reductions in their earnings, 25% directly and 40% in the long term. Finally, the new administration has tried to lay off all workers and re-enter them with individual contracts of employment, with unacceptable wages, cut-off labour rights. To achieve this, various methods of influence have been used, which have reached false sues, intimidation and uncovered threats. We have been a major obstacle in the face of all these manipulations. In every way, on the one hand, the loss of jobs and, on the other, labour deterioration have prevented labour. We have maintained sensitive balances within a very complex and unfavourable environment. We defended the workers and supported the local society of Kavala. Where have you been, really? Why were you deaf when the Kavala society and we, of course, opposed the sale of Laurentiadis' company? Why didn't you defend the workers when Laurentiadis violated labour rights by violating all the agreed rights? Why haven't you even tabled a question about all this in the past few years? In your question today, the workers are negligible once again. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the case of selling BFL to Laurentiadis and its overall development is a first-class example that summarises your opposition history over the last four years. You've created dazzling dead ends, problems. You abandoned the management of these deadlocks in our government, narrating any normal course. You have prejudged the failure of our Government, because you knew the size and depth of the problems you have created. Now that, against every prediction of course, at the expense of all your dark designs, you see the government succeed, you are desperately looking to find scandals.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u162	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u163	Your question today is journalistic and not the best journalistic type. It's just the impressions. You're trying to create by every means of negative impressions for the government to shade its obvious achievements and unleash the moral advantage that so much tortures you. The ironic story is that in trying to find scandals, you fall upon your own. This is because, as in the whole of your opposition tactics, you are unfoundedly transferring the headlines of your friendly press to the House. You muddle, greeding your own mud, with the naive hope that you will fill our own image. The bitter truth is that you are deeply addicted to power. You've been missing four years now. You're having a stiff syndrome. That's why you have problems managing your anger. We saw it the other day from your Chief of Parliament. Therefore, instead of harming our image, you reveal to us or rather remind us of your real person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr. Morfidis. Mr Maniotis has the floor on behalf of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR. Here, Mr. Maniotis, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u165	We'll take it in the form of questions. We will ask five questions, and we will give five answers to the greatest political and moral scandal of SYRIZA governance. And I say'maybe', because this is unfortunately adding to a number of other scandals, such as the EUR 600,000,000 of the international airport, the more than EUR 10 000, and a number of other cases of this kind. Question 1, is this a scandal or is it not? Reply: Economic Police Shut down at the offices of PPA at the beginning of this year and seized computers, programs, emails, etc. Criminal proceedings were brought against the CEO appointed by the SYRIZA Government to the extent of a felony. Thirdly, this man was replaced by the government. I therefore consider that the first answer to the first question is "Yes, this is a clear political and moral scandal of SYRIZA governance". Question 2: Who is the defendant in this scandal? The defendant is Mr Kitsakos, a party official of SYRIZA, a former chief executive of the company of Laurentiadis, appointed by the Government of SYRIZA as director of the company to which most of Mr Laurentiadis owes him. Appointed CEO of the PCC. When was Mr. Kitsakos appointed? Mr Kitsakos was appointed a few days after the former CEO Mr Paleoyannis had sent on 24 November 2015 a ‘legal note’ that in seven working days he would suspend the supply of natural gas to the ELFE fertiliser company of Mr Laurentiadis. And look at a coincidence! He shall be replaced by the then CEO three days after sending this letter of formal notice. Obviously, the method of replacing the annoying by the willing ones is a known method in SYRIZA. Third question: Is there a involvement of Mr. Tsipras in this scandal? Reply: Apparently there is a moment when at least six ministers have proven themselves to be involved by e-mails and public interviews of the defendant. The figures are too far, much more involved by Mr. Petsiti, a party official of SYRIZA, a friend and classmate of Mr. Nikos Papapas, who, before SYRIZA, declared an income of 5,000 euros and with SYRIZA declares an income of 205 000 euros. So career isn't a reciprocity. Care with SYRIZA, SYRIZA and SYRIZA methods seems to be a very good case. See another coincidence! A representative of the ELFE company, Mr Laurentiadis, and of the various offshore companies, is given by Mr Petsitis. And they come reliable media such as "THE VIMA", "KATHMERINI", "PROTAGON" and reveal a series of sequences, actions and actions. Mr. Petsitis also begins to represent Mr. Artemis's Cypriot law office on SYRIZA. Mr. Artemio is the lawyer, who along with Mr. Nikos Papapas went to Venezuela in 2013, supposedly to promote Greek exports of agricultural products, but on the question raised, the answer was: "We didn't go to Venezuela to sell beans." Apparently, they went for something much heavier and stricter. Here comes another coincidence. Obviously, there is a matter in SYRIZA about the question of real estate exchanges. Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kalograssa's wonderful 'great land' that would draw it up with a television licence? Now we've got a real estate exchange again. We have properties that have been assessed as worth 9,000 euros and debate is taking place before the principle intervenes, to exchange EUR 90,000 000 euros with a debt of 10 times the value. Fourth question: Justice and Parliament from now on have enough work to do? Answer: Yes, obviously! I am sure that justice will also enrich the case-file, the file that exists with everything that comes to the surface - and, obviously, with the names of the ministers - and, of course, the appropriate procedure will be followed, once legal evidence is available on the part of both the judiciary and the independent authority. And fifth question: Does this only relate to the SYRIZA Government? No, ladies and gentlemen! There's something else to do with the P.D.A.A.T.A. has something else to do with it. The remuneration of EUR 150,000,000 taken by the "SHELL" is to give 49% of the shares held by the PSC of Attica, the "Attica Gas supply company". For your information, I'm telling you something extremely simple. Since the beginning of the 2010s, SHELL has been making a deinvestment in all European countries, where it held shares in a natural gas distribution network. And the whole market knew. And he wanted to leave from 2010 and 2011 and from Greece. And there was reason why our country wanted a large investor, such as the "SHELL" or the "ENI" in Thessaloniki. What was widely circulated in DEPA at that time? It was circulating that, with the EUR 500,000, the “SHELL”, since she wants to leave because she is in her strategic and commercial design, she can leave. Question: Is it true that there are price assessments of not more than EUR 80,000 000 and, on the contrary, the government of Greek citizens' money paid this multinational with EUR 150,000 000? Can the President-in-Office present, Mr Stathakis, prove to the House that the EUR 150,000, given to a company that has already wanted to leave this investment, really responds to what the Greek people should have paid as a price? Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude with just one comment. Minister, you made a comment on the East Med pipeline and I also saw a page that was friendly to you on newspapers. Remember that East Med, Mr. Tsipras and all of you sabotaged him, voted against him and you were against him in every step, when we joined the Trans-European Energy Programmes and guaranteed his funding. You then accused us of being an unavoidable task and of throwing ashes, supposedly, into the eyes of the people. And now Mr. Tsipras comes in person and tries to usher in the works he was fighting: the East Med pipeline, the Greek-Bulgarian pipeline, the liquefied natural gas plant in Alexandroupolis, the upgrading of Revitousa. And of course, to close at the famous price of the D.C.F.A. We ask ourselves: so good negotiations on SYRIZA? About 130,000 more euros. We forget a little detail that the government is trying to hide. How much reserve did DESFA have in 2014 on his fund? He had 50,000,000 euros. How reserve did DESFA have in 2018 sold on SYRIZA? He had 150,000,000 euros. That's the difference, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u166	Where did the reserve come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u167	You've found them ready again, so don't take it and be proud of it, because you've also done a hole in the water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr. Maniots. Mr. Hadjisavvas from Golden Dawn has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u169	It is indicative of the situation that exists and you show with this scandal who you, of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, are scandalous in hatred, collaborators, projectiles. There goes your supposed moral advantage, but yet some of you dare again and talk about it. Not to mention yesterday's fiasco with the thousands of pages of the amendments, with the 'washer' for money laundering that was taken without the intended procedure - this amendment states that - for hot spots for illegal immigrants and the carrots of NGOs coming and partying here at the expense of the Greek taxpayer and the appointing of journalists in the APRC. All Greek society asks. Every day they see me in Kilkis, they tell me, "What's going to happen? Won't journalists be appointed to the RES - ICM?’ You have brought the amendment and you have resolved this. Luckily, we were dizzy. On the issue of DEPA, we have more than EUR 100,000, 000 damage, essentially a pillaging of the Public Gas Company. A customer, ELFE, who has a turnover of 10% in the total in relation to DEPA, is making losses to 80% of the debts that the DEPA has to recover. We've got some revelations from the former CEO, Theodoros Kitsakos, in media that are committed to Civic Anti-Civilization, in anti-Civilism in general. Is Kitsakos a member of the opposition? Involved by government ministers, the government appointed him, he was a party official of SYRIZA and a manager of Laurentiadis operations. It all happened when the former CEO gave a seven-day ultimatum for debt recovery by ELFE and on the sixth day it was replaced "completely symptoms" by Kitsako. So the Minister of SYRIZA Skourletis told Kitsako, the party official of SYRIZA, who was former manager of Laurentiadis operations, to resolve the issue of ELFE’s debts to the DEPA where he was a member of staff. Has he been able to solve the issue in favour of whom? In favour of ELFE or PCP? Awesome, your thinking shows that you're going through the Greek people for sucker and you're mocking him face-to-face. These terrible moves, therefore, have led to the exchange of real estate debts that had initially been estimated at EUR 9,000,000 and suddenly went to EUR 90,000,000. And not only is that enough, but the particular properties were previously seized for 'black money'. What a PASOK and scandal! You've gotten over everything. Has it been audited by sworn accountants? If so, what company? Not to ask: whose company? Banks involved, companies - prefixes and responsibilities for the private sector - all end up in an eighty-seven-year-old executive that you're going to do to him? You're gonna put him in jail? How will he pay? The New Democracy learned all about it. New Democracy left EUR 74,000 in debt and in three - four years, 116,000,000 and 120,000 euros. Until he arrives there, were you who kept it so well in the short, at the 74,000,000 euros, not informed? No one's hinted? However, all this is to the detriment of Greek taxpayers, workers and farmers, and all of the Greek economy as a whole. The taxpayers pay the debts, as always, the employees of ELFE in Kavala mainly, after months of unpaid, blackmailing, eventually dispersed into four - five companies, with an uncertain working future. Farmers, who pay expensive farms and fuels, could not have had a national production of farmland and fuel to buy as long as they buy farmland and not pay for oil while they pay it to ride to Kolonaki with their jeeps, for example. Where's your social sign? Will you also resolve these as you have resolved the issue of the "Greek Sugar Industry S.A." and "ELVO"? For the "Greek Sugar Industry S.A." I remember that you came in here and said you would save them and finally closed everything. For all this, the government says that it has no responsibility, but Kitsakos himself, about how and when he informed ministers here lists a whole list of dates. He says he's also taking threats. To open the phone secret, to see from who's getting threats. He informed the Ministry of Debt Development every week, every month, of the "ELLENIC A.E." during his term of office. He said that on 4 December he informed Skourletis and said to him: "Find management mode, just don't cut supply". In 2015 and 2016 in a meeting, he informed Minister Drasakis, Minister of Jakri, the representatives of banks, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, he presented the situation, that it is no longer going to be possible to collect and a orderly interruption should be made and a judicial claim of the debt should be made. The reply of Drasakis was that the gas supply should not be interrupted, as all the ministers in general stated, and continues in February 2017, that the Minister of Flamour also requested information as he had dealt with the issue of ‘ELFE’. Because of workers' redundancies - it says - in Kavala and the problems that exist, we and the local organisation of the Golden Dawn in Kavala, but also a step in the way of Members, have visited the workers at the time when they were taking the trabourism and the threats and were unpaid. We have also tabled relevant questions. He, as he says, constantly informed the ministers and their advisers about the need for a political initiative on the issue of ELFE's debts and PPC, but nothing happened. In April, he returned to a meeting and finally took an answer and finally saw the government's perception that, for all the work problems in Kavala, it was considered that the DEPA was a burden on ELFE rather than the "ELFE" problem for the IPPC. So it was proposed that the gas supply should be discontinued until the industry was managed and said it was gone disgusted by this meeting. Stathakis answered by saying that because they are profitable he could make a little patience. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I have to tell the Minister that patience is the worst thing when every month it is costing and charging the Greek people millions of euros. There was no case for the ministers not to know the situation. You SYRIZA and the ANELs have arrived and overrun the previous ones to mismanagement. With a style of lazy and cleaners of the old and dirty establishment and rotten political system you entered in January 2015 is supposed to be the government to do what others did not. But you've done more damage. You have not only broken up the economy, you have not only broken up nationally Greece, you have broken up the hope that the Greek nation can vote for something that is new and that it can do something different, bring a reaction and a resistance of the Greek nation. Mr Kalogero spoke of institutional inconsistency as to the fact that such questions are being asked. Institutional inappropriateness is - to inform you - when the ministers, parliamentarians and non-parliamentarians do not respond to the third political power of the country since the 2015 elections and say that we are accused. There are other officials in other parties who are accused. You don't answer their questions? That is institutional inappropriate. Where do you have it written? In conclusion, I would like to say that we have nothing more to say about this, but as Golden Dawn we invite you to resign now, before the Prespecies Agreement passes from the Greek Parliament, to go to 0% where you were and no one knew you, to save society, to save our Macedonia, to save us all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Hadjisavva. Ladies and gentlemen, until Mr Papachristopoulos comes to Stepma, I would like to make a statement. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and four educational attendants from the 4th Tripolis High School (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You should be aware that at the moment you are following the time of an up-to-date question tabled by the New Democracy and the MPs and ministers are presenting their opinion and taking the floor on the issue of the DEPA. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. I think it's worth remembering because it's about a company that had it at some point considered "the man of the year", businessman - who discovered it, who established it? - Mr. Laurentis Laurentiade. Mr. Laurentiadis was not released because he is confiscated with the Law of Paradise, but for a harm to his health that existed prior to the Law of Paradise. I say that so that impressions are not created. It is worth reminding us that this successful businessman, despite the reactions of the Bank of Greece inspectors, through the mediation of Mr Venizelos - to remember these things because I heard Mr Maniotis very angry - took Proton Bank. Dozens of people are in jail right now for this story. And he's the same man, of course, who played a decisive role in this company. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] I'm not going to deal with today at all. I have listened with great respect and attention to everyone. Mostly I have heard the response from the Ministers to the question of whether there is any damage, whether there is a court procedure under way at the moment for the defendant, etc. I think all this has been answered. That's my opinion. It is of great importance, however, because the honourable Members were very angry. Very much. It's an anger I can't explain. I would like here to remind you, in the short time I have, of a strange communication tactic that has been introduced lately. Someone told them you'd win by discovering scandals. I want to remind them of one by one by one by one by one. I want to remind you, for example, of the famous airport scandal. I have seven in front of me. One is 'ELFE' - which I do not need to answer. The ministers answered it. They initially proposed a lower starting value of 700,000,000. It's a fact. You know that 55% of the government handles it with the HICP. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. Indeed. We're accepting it. With the suggestion of Brussels, the airport administration has submitted a new offer, with the cubit reaching 1.34,000. A scandal. The good news is, they're forgetting about it after a while. They're not coming back. They forget it themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u172	Is that why you have something to tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u173	Don't interrupt me. Two scandal: Demonstrations in Saudi Arabia. The opposition was then blocked because the agreement was annulled. The scandal over what deal? Third: I now come to my mind. We happen to be a few MPs and I am present at all. I remember the day before yesterday how angry Mr Varvitsiotis was - he is not here in the Chamber - for the 1600 000 000 000 for the refugee. Today is one of seven. Mrs Bertos herself comes in and says, "Children, the Greek Government has managed only 354 million with absolute transparency and there is no problem". The truth is that this amount is real, but it is not about the Greek Government. I told Mr Varvitsiotis then that if he has a problem with the UN High Commissioner for Immigration or the International Organisation for Immigration to say so. No relationship to the huge battalion that they have like a sword. In fact, since 1,600,000, when we told him "say a clue" - Mr Vitsas has taken out of his papers a Moria citizen who rented a plot of two and a half thousand a year and took a grand out of the High Authority. I agree with him. Since 1,600,000,000, we've been down to nine and a half grand a year with him. Not half of it. Fourth scandal: yesterday I was in the committee, where Mrs Thanos was proposed by the government to take up Mr Kyritsaki's position. It made me a terrible impression that people who are cut off for the independence of this principle - they are literally cut off, I saw Mr. Voridis again - arrived at the point where they would go to Moscovisi, to Vestagher, to say: 'Cut off this...' First of all, I would like to remind you here, for those who might pass it awkwardly, that the Committee on Competition plays a role not for millions but for billions. And it's not just Mr. Kyritsaki's 18 million who had entered the drawer and never paid for it, went and deleted. It's not just a monopoly on press distribution. They're energy, construction, incredible billions. And nothing happened. They lived in the drawer. So I saw the husband of a parliamentarian who has played a decisive role in the Competition Committee. His wife was nothing then. He became a congressman. That's not bad. I still saw a man who was a Secretary General and a New Democracy official - such independence! - to take in circumstantial positions. I saw a man who was in the Competition Committee this morning and at night he was advisor to Mr Mitsotakis and much more. Mrs Thanos - I am surprised, another scandal this is a terrible scandal, a reverential opposition - what has she done? What was her crime? He went as the Prime Minister's legal counsel, unpaid. Was there anything against her? Did it belong to any political parties? Did he have any political activity? I'm telling you about people who were appointed and active officials of the New Democracy. And when you colluded with PASOK, two ladies came, one being in the office of George Papandreou and the other was in the office of Mr Chrysochoidis and Mr Stournaras. Such a sense of independence! First of all, if you really disagree and must be truly independent, we must find another way. Tell him - here we are - to legislate on him. Why are you making such a fuss? That was also a scandal. I would also like to remind you, Mr President, that I will not have much time - that I have an incredible thing in front of me - every morning when a friend of mine, as he was coming to, said: 'In the first half you charged the country with 80 billion'. Then we went to 100 billion if we woke up a little bit to 200 billion. And here comes the official way ELSTAT says the numbers. I say you find an economist on the planet to put that number on somewhere and get in touch. Also scandal: For 2019 it will have a decrease of 12.6 points, 323,5 billion,167,8% of GDP. Indeed, in 2018, it was up to 180% of GDP for buffer and was down in 2017 as well. Where's the 80 billion? Look, I believe fanaticism and despair are not good counsellors. They're exposing you. I remember what you said in the first evaluation, in the 'cutter' of the first evaluation, in the second evaluation, in the 'cutter' of the second evaluation, in the third evaluation. Beat on the credit line. You were hit a moment ago for the fourth memorandum. You played with Matty. Not to tell you what you've done. I believe you are undermining your credibility. And you're undermining her in a very arrogant way. This has been demonstrated by the speech of the ministers, particularly Mr Stathakis. Finally, I want to say: You know, Peter Kebf is the President of the Association of German Industrialists. I don't suppose you have a feeling that he supports a government in Greece. This man sees Greece taking off, in growth, at unemployment rates, in trade figures, in the state budget, in the export index, in the tourism he gallery becomes a hub of energy. And the most important thing of all? The "Saint Bank" of capitalism is coming - because the dangers exist in this Chamber - the "WALL STREET JOURNAL" and says that in the last quarter only one country showed signs of life. And he makes tough criticism in all the Eurozone countries. Take note of all this. I want to say a good word, although Mr. Dendias is missing from the House. I heard him in his speech in the budget, and the last two minutes he dedicated it to fascism, to the extreme right movements and was very honest. I hold this, and I believe that on this line there are honest men, there are people in view. We may disagree, however, that some people are following an extreme slippery line. Handmade proof is the question you asked today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Mavrosh has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. I will not repeat what colleagues from New Democracy have said. The issue that is being discussed in the current question gives us the opportunity to discuss a very important issue for public administration and general public bodies. Stakeholders belonging to a party environment are selected, without any open invitation, because you probably have confidence in them. And trust counts more than skill. Mr. Kitsakos was CEO in PDP from December 2015 to November 2017. Before working at ELFE, in Greek Chemicals and Fertilizers of interests Laurentiadis. ELFE owes 120 million to PPC from the gas it used not as a fuel but as a raw material to produce ammonia for fertilisers. And as it writes, ELFE's debt is a time bomb on the foundations of PPC and the Greek energy market, as it accounts for 80% of the total market debt to PPC and 10% of its turnover, as its own administration points out. The Government therefore put the former CEO of the largest debtor of the ELFE, in place of the CEO of the PPA. Mr. Theodoros Kitsakos, former energy director of SYRIZA and former CEO of "ELFE", a former member of the Laurentiadis Group, was placed in the post of CEO of the CEO of DEPA on 1 December 2015. A few days earlier, at the end of November 2015, the former CEO of PPA, Paleoyannis, had sent an outlet to ELFE, threatening to stop the supply of gas because the company infringed the contractual obligations in order to settle its debt to the IPCC. In short, therefore, Mr. Kitsakos blamed for making the wrong eyes to the debts of "ELFE" to the DEPA and in 2017 he accepted the exchange of debts with real estate, which were bound by the Greek State. This case seems to have had cannabis in the administration of the Black Money Laundering Authority. They've heard before. In 2018, Mr. Kitsako was criminally prosecuted for his actions and omissions as CEO of the DEPA. He claimed that everything was done in knowledge of his political leaders. He also talked about Mr Manolis Petsiti as well, as he said, a representative of the services of Mr. Maximos. Incidentally, Mr Petsitis was also a worker at ELFE or if he was not a worker, at least he was paid from there and even richly paid. This is an answer to those who say that Greece does not offer opportunities. As long as you're part of the right environment or have found the right classmate! Inside this bucket also involved various Cypriot companies that played the role of the window. It's a very confusing bucket. If they knew and gave the green light to Mr. Stathakis, Mr. Flamouraris and Mr. Drasakis, I don't know about Mr. Kitsakou's actions. What I know is that you need to explain all this involvement. If the incentive was not to shut off the "ELFE" and lose their jobs, it certainly cannot be done at the expense of other workers, nor to jeopardise the stability and balance of a crucial Greek business economy. Trying to house something certainly doesn't mean throwing money into an empty well. We've seen it and paid for it a few times from all the governments. Usually in these cases motives may be good, people may not lose their jobs, political pressures exist, but they are with the glove, which is why they don't leave any traces. And when it turns or goes off, it's paid by some commanders, etc. And then it seems precisely because the selection criterion of the various governors is to be 'our own children'. To do the gifts of politicians and not to be good at their jobs. That is why there are no open invitations, but closed 'days' recruitments. After all, our man can obey one of our days. It is enough, of course, that the wrong should not happen, for if the case turns too much, then he that saves himself is saved! And the scapegoat is not a role that many like. Like Hitscock's masterpiece, the "Silent Witness", you know with James Stewart and Grace Kelly. Sometimes they prefer the opposite role of the title. In general, party choices in administrations are a scandalous fertilizer. And I close the way I started, Mr President. The management of the administrative posts in state agencies or in state positions in general, continues to be done - as with the previous ones - by your own people, by your own people. I would like to turn back a little bit this week to the independent authorities. See the case of Mrs Thanos. And in order to go to yesterday, you continue unconstitutional practice - since we have been discussing the revision of the Constitution in these days - not just the late but overdue arrogant amendments. You have forgotten very quickly that 'we are the every word of the Constitution'. What's your excuse for all this? Your first conversation as soon as we criticize you is: 'and the previous ones did the same' and you start listing cases. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, four years later you confirm that you were not the hope that comes, but the work that is repeated. People despise politics because of inconsistency and especially pre-election speeches and acts and especially post-election acts. If you found a situation that needs to be changed, but now that you have the power that this situation suits you, this does not undo the demand for change. That means 'government otherwise'. What you do, however, means 'govern like the old'! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u176	Thank you. Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the well-known DEPA case is one of many characteristic cases, which proves to be the great moral advantage of the Left is a fairy tale for very young children and since we have festive days you can tell them. This if, of course, we assume that SYRIZA is Left, because the so-called “bug” no longer convinces anyone. There is no moral superiority, because only some grandparents fought seventy years ago, when today SYRIZA plunders with dozens of impracticable promises, when he cares only for small-party interests, when he goes down every day or when he really cares only for his own children. One of his own children was also a former energy manager at his office in Koumoundouros, who, from a "store" of a fertiliser company was suddenly appointed on December 1, 2015 and was not evaluated as CEO, that is to say, the company that had received 70 million euros from this company at the time. There is no reason to repeat what is included in the topical question now, given that justice has already been dealt with, but almost all newspapers and media have been mentioned and very much analysed. The conclusions of each objective reader are, however, the ones that matter. And I start with this: Firstly, an entrepreneur and his employee are alleged to have created debts in a public enterprise without intervening. Secondly, for this inertia the SYRIZA - ANEL government is 100% exposed, since it has been alleged for years to cover everything that has been done fully. Thirdly, six ministers are alleged to have been involved from the beginning to the end and everyone is allegedly aware of the evolution of the arrogant debt that has now reached EUR 120 million. Fourthly, we have informal e-mails and official minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors of the Public Gas Company, which appear to be burning them all. Fifthly, everyone is alleged to have had ears on what their party partner asked of the party and to be informed of every phenomenal idea, such as the attempt to get involved through various companies - 'Phantoms', parentheses or exotic parentheses, to slowly erase the company's debt, by exchanging mortgages and pledged, please, real estate and additional much less value than the debt. And, sixthly, for four whole years, the fertiliser company literally purchased natural gas for free from the DEPA, with the ministers involved allegedly that not only were they tolerated it but also intervened in the administration of DEPA and their former partner with a mandate not to demand nor to claim the results. Literally we're talking about incredible things. And the torrent of the rest of the revelations merely confirmed that a invisible hand at times protected the businessman and his companions. Interministerial committees have therefore been organised, Vice-Chairmen, Ministers, coordinators, bankers, other parties. And all this is alleged to have been done to find the best solution to the interests of others rather than the Greek public. But, unfortunately, for all those who allegedly participated in this, the time has come when the former friend from a friend became an enemy and in front of the endless revelations he nailed them all together and one - one individual. Even only 10% of those who have been written and heard should today be allowed by the representatives of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to come here with their heads down - indeed - and apologise. Instead, we heard them trying to justify unjustified arguments, without saying any good argument, and without saying any element that contradicts what is being blamed, a behaviour which, beyond all others, certainly angers all those who are watching us right now and the Greek people. They give the impression - and I may be wrong about this, and I would ask you, Mr President-in-Office, to correct me - that, beyond panic - now that everything has come out at the forum - they have something else to hide or protect, and that is why they are still making a last and hopeless effort to disorientate and dismantle the responsibilities that have been done. The utterly unacceptable and curious thing is that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government defends individuals, for whom it has already been prosecuted for infidelity, for not collecting debts and what we are discussing. And while this case was commissioned to an interrogator for the so-called'more' criminal investigation, I would like to ask the Ministers present: for these further, Mr Ministers, any political responsibility for a EUR 120 million damage to the public that we are discussing, who will be seized? I think you ought to answer that. And, finally, what I see to be playing all the time is that we are dealing with magicians. One takes "NOVARTIS" out of the sleeve, and the other takes out the DPRK's hat. One takes off the sleeve the C4I and the other takes out the Triumph. One takes "SIEMENS" off the sleeve, the other takes out the airport and the Kammenos bullets in Saudi Arabia. Ladies and gentlemen, "Greece you have talent" is over and a magician didn't win. Be assured that at the moment you have all lost the confidence of the Greek people and all those who have ruled, you are accountable - each on his side - for which scandals are there, because there are scandals is a reality. Because it is my last speech from Stepa, I would like to wish all and especially the Greek people a good holiday. Patience, and I hope next year they will come for better days.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u178	Have a good year.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u179	Madam colleague, I wish. Without you, of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u180	I wished you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Kostis Hatzidakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, there is therefore no DEPA-Laurentiadis scandal. Mr. Stathakis, this is a trip to the woods. Didn't you invite us to pick up some poppies? There is no Kitsakos, there is no Petsitis, there is no Laurentiadis, there are no 80 million won by Laurentiadis, if Kitsakos proceeded to the end of what he planned and for which he is persecuted when your Government simply presided. The debt was not raised at all. What if we showed you with Mr. Teddy the painting that shows he doubled? You say that it has not increased over your days. We are grateful to you, Mr Stathakis, for not telling us that it has been reduced. You could say that, too. You could say it's night and we're in Helsinki. Everything we can hear! There's nothing strange about the assignment of Kitsaku. He was Director General of Laurentiades, owes Laurentiades, takes him from Laurentiadis, take him to the DEPA and he's fine! There's nothing wrong with what Mr. Skourlet! It has not changed anything in the payments you told us of ELFE in the PPC. You forgot, however, that before you told us yourself that you had decided on your day to be 50% 'dust', immediately, in cash and 50% of post-paid checks. Yeah, except before it was 100% cash, Mr. Stathakis and Mr. Ministers, you have to apologize. And it is said by the General Assembly of 2014. You haven't expelled, as far as I can tell, Kitsaco for the DEPA-Laurentiadis scandal. You referred earlier to the reasons why you sent him away. You said other things, you don't mention that. So I am entitled or not to assume that you agree with the Kitsaku manipulations in the DEPA-Laurentiade scandal? If you don't agree, say it. For I hear you put a little bit of awkward on the subject, perhaps fearing any judicial involvement that the ministers might have. I want a clear placement on this. You do not think anything strange about this attempt to exchange the land and that they were bound from the outset and that they were attempting to double their value by Mr Kitsako. You said it was a short-lived presence, a short-lived effort. Oh, no! And justice is mad that for this attempt he's prosecuted Mr. Kitsaco?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u184	He'll show.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u185	Yes, sir. So you cover Mr. Kitsako. I want a clear placement. Either you agree with his actions or you disagree. As a politician, as the chief minister, you have an obligation to be placed in the Greek Parliament in any case. You also said nothing about the infamous Mr. Petsiti. You spoke four ministers and you moved the finger in the New Democracy. Mr. Petsitis is a friend of Mr. Papa, of your colleague, who is written by the press, who has taken 200,000 from Mr. Laurentiadis, who is the manager of offshore of Mr. Laurentiadis and who is photographed with the Prime Minister at the same time and photographed with Mr. Flamouraris. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] Is nothing wrong for all of you, for all of you of SYRIZA who applaud these practices? Is that the new left spirit? Don't you feel like you have to say two words on this matter? When will you finally feel the need to say an elementary truth and an elementary 'excuse' to the Greek people? Mr President-in-Office, you will not get out of this easily. You have tabled today, Mr Stathakis, some of the PPC minutes, which do not close but further open the matter, as was seen from the position of Mr Treasury. So I say to all four that today is just the beginning. You need to get ready for the follow-up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u188	No, Mr. Screka, you're done. It has been agreed that only Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Voridis, along with Mr. Hatzidakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u189	I spoke to the President and he told me that I would have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u190	Because I have information from the President, only Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Vorides are entitled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u191	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u192	I'm not making any mistakes. You've spoken, Mr. Screka, nine minutes. You can't all talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u193	Please confirm that I have not taken my dentistry and agreed with the previous President, who has replaced me, that I will speak for two minutes about my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u194	I can't give you two minutes. If all of your colleagues want two minutes, that's not the way it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u195	I'm not asking for an exception. Secondary education is provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u196	It is enough, however, that you have not exhausted it in your prototype, because that was an agreement. I will give Mr Georgiadis the floor, I will agree with the Bureau and if it is, then I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u197	I've been asking for two minutes since he referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u198	Who referred to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u199	I will ask two questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u200	Here you go, Mr. Screka.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask two questions, because they are both the Minister for Energy and the Environment and the Minister for Justice. For the Minister of Energy and the Environment: Minister, do you know how much the turnover of "ELFE" was in 2016? It was about 60 million euros. Do you know what damage ELFE had that year, the Greek Fertilizers Company? He had 40 million euros. And do you know what gas purchases he had from the DEPA? About 50 million euros. Do you know what that means, Minister? Anyone who sees it understands that he actually underestimated natural gas to the adventurous companies that had been created, which used and produced products. This is how you understand very well that there is a transfer of profits from ELFE to the participating companies, which have backward Cypriot offshore. You knew that and you had to do something as a state. From there on, Minister, I should like to say something else: you do not say that, according to information, Mr Kitsakos has leaked, on 16-5-2017 there was a ministerial meeting at which you, the Minister of State and the Minister of Development and Finance participated together with the creditors. There was a plan, a plan, which you said would proceed with an exchange, not a property anymore, but an operational plan that said that, given the calmness of the commitment of a property, a waste management unit could be built that would produce biofuels, bioethanol, etc. And in this way, the debt of Mr Laurentiadis and ELFE could be exchanged and the debt of Mr Laurentiadis be eradicated. You didn't tell us what was being discussed. You did not submit the minutes of that interministerial office here. So you had knowledge of everything that had been done. Mr. Secretary of Justice, I'm not a lawyer. I'm a political engineer. I have one question: According to the NOVARTIS scandal, the names of former Prime Ministers and Ministers have been mentioned by hooded witnesses and this case-file has come to Parliament and you have today smacked them. On the subject of Mr Kitsakou, who is being persecuted, who reportedly mentions the names of six ministers of the government, why so long has justice, Minister of Justice, has there not been a case in the Greek Parliament, so that we can see what Mr Kitsakos has said? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u202	Mr. Georgiadis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u203	Minister, "We are dealing with gar with eulogy, but we are philosophing without bullshit," said Thucydides at "Epitafio". And being better than you in ancient times is very normal. However, filing tables in the House that you do not know how to read them to mislead the House, saying and lying, is a sign of guilt. And I come to the painting you testified to, the new guy you said we'd see him later. I'm sure you're gonna lie there, too. I refer to the Minutes: 'Stathakis: When Mr Kitsakos took over, he was EUR 89 million in debt'. And then you did the calculation with 7.2% a year, you uploaded the millions, and you ended up at 12 million euros. First and foremost, the table you submitted says that at the end of 2015 it was EUR 81 million and not EUR 89 million. Lie first. I redeposit him to see what you testified. Take him back. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Mr Stathakis' second lie: we here do not control Mr Kitsako, this is what Greek justice controls. We control your government. Mr. Kitsakos took over in December 2015. So all in 2015 - because, if you don't remember, you've been ruling on ELFE's debt since January 2015 - it doesn't belong to the previous government, but to you, who have a lot of money in the bank and you forget a few million. Put something on for the public when the time comes. So let's go see the debt. The debt at the end of 2014, Mr Stathakis, was EUR 74 million. So be careful, Mr Stathakis, the fine calculations you made with the interest and with this supposed calmness of the guilty person were made in wrong figures, because 7.2% should do it at 75, not 89. So the 12 million you made, your damage is already twice as much. A second lie, then, of Stathakis: Guilty for the second time in the House. Lie third now and even more: This nice calculation - with the smile - was not in the three-year period 2012-2015? Mr. Stathakis, 7.2% a year of interest didn't DEPA have Samaras - Venizelos? Of course he did.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u204	Bank of Greece!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u205	So explain now - don't interrupt me - calm Mr. Stathakis, why he wouldn't go up...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u206	The Bank of Greece said so!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u207	Right, from the Bank of Greece, that's true, I'm telling you. It was 7.2%, therefore, both 2012 and 2013 and 2014. Why, Mr Stathakis, did the debt fall in 2012, in 2013, in 2014, while it increased in Stathaki? So the debt, Mrs Gara, that you did not understand and applaud - which Mr Stathakis was saying calmly is all yours, Mr Stathakis. And so, the difference you said EUR 12 million is not EUR 12 million. Do you know how much it is? It's '74 minus 125', that's the difference that belongs to Stathakis. And that's why Stathakis will apologize. And I submit for the Minutes the relevant table to see how the debt is being launched on Stathaki, because interest is the same in the previous period, but the debt does not increase at the same rate. So you did damage. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] You said one more lie and you made another indulgence. It's a lot of indulgence! You know, Mr Stathakis, you said 'I do not open a dialogue with Mr Kitsako'. Nah, that's what they told you? You won't explain to us in the House what the one you appointed? Are you kidding us? Dialogue will take place, Mr. Kitsako, either in the House or in the interrogator! You'll do him somewhere, though. You'd better do it in the House than in the interrogator, I advise you. So let's go now to indulgence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u208	And finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u209	With a very large look you said to us: "Mr.Axakis Papageorgiou held a meeting in 2012." And you read: "He conveyed the desire of the government and Prime Minister, Samaras."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u210	That's not what I told you. I said, "I.D. PSURs’.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u211	In 2012, the Prime Minister was Mr Papademos, if you don't know it, and not Antonis Samaras. Take the next lie, then. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] One truth he didn't say at the Step, only lies! So now we're actually going to understand it well, because it's not a laughing matter at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Comrade, soon, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u213	One more minute, Mr President. We have Mr Petsiti, who states, Mr President, business consultant and in 2012 he told Facebook that the money of the Four, 600 billion, is true. Take this for the Minutes, too. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This business consultant shopping, Laurentiadis, who thought the EUR 600 billion of the Sorrah was real! So, listen, Mr Stathakis: Mr. Tsipras' friend, who thought the EUR 600 billion of Sorra was real, took EUR 200,000 from Laurentiadis as business consultant. Laurentiadis won tens of millions of good treatment I have just mentioned, and the money was transferred through two offshore lawyers of Mr. Papa, who came out of the Maximos Mansion with bags and who has put Mr. Petsiti, his friend Mr. Tsipras as his representative. I mean, we have the lawyer, offshore, money, and favorable treatment. Can't you just drop the laughs, say any truth?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Georgiadis, please be very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u215	Now tell us seriously what's going on! And I'm closing - only seconds I'm going to talk to Mr. Kaloger. Listen, Mr Kalogerou - and I speak very sincerely - you have made a fine speech. I like to hear nice speeches in this House, I prefer them. But taking lessons in us - and particularly in me - political decency and parliamentaryism is going too far! I read to you: "Pavlos Paulis" - the government, you know, is a whole - "No, find a extreme right-wing group, if you are shot, I will be blamed! I have mentioned you more often” and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u217	Mr Kalogerou, with Minister of State with Polakis and with what you have done in NoVARTIS and the disgraces we hear in here, you talk to us about institutional decency and not to go with mud in the elections, it goes a lot! Be modest! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u219	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and students and three educational attendants from the High School of Skala Laconia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You are following the timely question procedure submitted by the New Democracy to the Government and there is a dialogue. Clearly there are tensions, so forgive us for them. Mr. Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u220	I would first like to say, Mr President, that I respect Mr Stathakis' attitude. I'm saying I respect her, because I'm a defender, and I understand she's not ready and obviously doesn't want to say anything, which in a development tomorrow will find it in front of him. So he doesn't want to talk about Mr. Kitsako - he doesn't talk to him - he reasonably doesn't want to comment on Mr. Petsiti, too, he doesn't want to say anything about that. I mean, he doesn't really want to say anything about this. Because matters arise - to be informed - from persecution. And you didn't put yourself in the prosecution. Why would you put yourself in? Your chosen man and a man of Laurentiades is accused of putting him in order to regulate the issues of Laurentiadis with his opponent. That's a nice thing to think about, grandeur! They had Laurentiade's clerk protect the interests of Laurentiade's opponent. Great! And the Vice President told us after that, "What are we here to do? Aren't we leaving?' And you were applauding. And you are good! "Wouldn't we leave? It is not a matter for God to guard!' And the negotiator of Laurentiades was the Petsite with the employee of Laurentiadis, who represented the opposition of Laurentiadis. I mean, Prime Minister's best friend! Is that a matter? No, God save! What's the matter? There's no question! Now, look, it's a coincidence! After all, the Minister of Justice tells us that there is an issue of institutional dignity. Isn't he innocent until he's found guilty? Obviously. As also, however, it is a presumption that a prosecutor has said there are evidence of guilt. And that's obvious. Also, it is evident that, because the criminal prosecution has moved, he has been released. That's why you don't take a position. He's done something that hurt the company and you disembarked him, but you don't know anything about it and you don't have anything to do with it, or he did all right, and so this D.A. doesn't know what's going on with him? What's the matter with both of you? In this regard Mr Stathakis voluntarily flies and answers: 'Who knows?' The Paints?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u221	I wasn't placed on them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u222	Not at all. As to these major issues at all. You have come and told us that since the debt of EUR 122 million, the 12 relate to the management of Kitsaku and the rest you have nothing to do with it. Those grocery bills you go to do, they don't pass, because they're probably going to tell the grocery store that when you let a debt evolve, you obviously also take the responsibility for the rent, and so it's your responsibility that the debt is being charged with interest. And you come to this House and say such things! The Minister of Economy and Development, such spoons!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u223	You're not shy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u224	How was the debt created?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u225	Ma'am, the debt has been developed in the way we explained ten times. It's 30m euros over the debt you're defending. And when the issue of EUR 70 million has arisen and they are told to freeze - that is what they were told at the time - the debts are presented to us by the 'good' decision by the Minister of Justice and what is the result, Minister, of the decision you are presenting? It appears that the company has not even terminated the contract. He owes 70m euros and they haven't filed a complaint. And they go to insurance measures, which are presented to us, and do you know what the contested measure is? Not to freeze, not to stop the creation of a new debt, but to redeem the whole or half with a post-modernized one. That's it. The company says "half with post-dates" and the court said "the whole with post-dates".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u226	In 2014, why didn't you have it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u227	That is the question of interim measures. That's what the public company says. That is what your representative says instead of going and saying that a debt has now been created, which has escaped, which cannot be served. And in the name of the negotiation, their chosen ones - and in their knowledge - are reluctant to alienate themselves from any productive activity. Besides, what have we brought you here, and we're inconvenienced? So listen, informal: I've seen many defendants smiling at the audiences. You can't imagine how many I've seen go out crying!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr. Vorides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u229	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u230	The comments keep them for yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u231	Don't start again. Mr. Stathakis, you have spoken twenty-seven minutes in your prototype. How much time do you need? Shall I put seven minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u232	I'll be done very soon. To thank Mr. Teddy. I hope he liked the lunch he got at noon. The second round did not add a single element. I heard Mr Hatzidakis repeating what he said in his prototype. Mr. Vorides told us that the scandal is now the interest rate, not the creation of a new debt. The scandal is the debts of the New Democracy, which are not repaid and have interest. That's the scandal. Amazing economic analysis! I only place the three tables to finish the lies discussion: Debt evolution from 2009 to 2015, capital plus interest. Net debt growth from 2009 to 2015, total debt minus guarantees, from 38 million to 81,740. That was the clean one. Finally, the evolution of total debt from 2016 to 2018. Let's finish this story. You should also be given every month the evolution of debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u233	Gentlemen, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u234	I'm overdoing all this. I restore Mr. Treasury's charge of lies. Mr. Dendias has an obsession with me. Apparently, he's following Mr. Voridis. He likes to make the portrait of me! He remembered I was a trade unionist in Newcastle. I don't have it in my CV. Where did you see that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u235	I guess she told me your student.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u236	Oh, he told you, my student! He has an obsession to paint me a portrait where he usually avoids my academic work and even more scientific work. My books never mention it. It only goes to the idea of calm, which distinguishes me and which irritates Mr Vorides from what I understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u237	You have added the word'lie' which I do not think I am ever using in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u238	Good. Well, thank you. The evidence is that. I now reply to Mr Vorides' 'wonderful' arguments. What does the indictment say to Mr. Kitsako? Do you know that, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u239	That he intervened with the decision of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u240	About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u241	For infidelity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u242	What is he accused of infidelity? To raise the debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u243	The way you pay the debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u244	Probably the script. I don't know the indictment. About the plan you've been complaining about that never happened...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u245	Do you know or don't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u246	No, I don't. I'm the Minister. How should I know the indictment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u247	Didn't you have the curiosity to see it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u248	I don't know. I guess. Whatever it is, I did not place myself in detail? I have tabled ten IAC decisions to you, I have tabled to you the decisions of the General Assembly, I have tabled to you - and Mr Kalogerou - the decision of the courts which binds the PPA. What do I have to add to the substance? Absolutely nothing. Neither a party nor a perfect one. The debate was thorough. It can't be done more thoroughly. What else can I add?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u249	Your opinion of the handling of Kitsaku. Did you find him positive or negative? We're asking for a point of view. Are you an observer?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u250	Please, Mr. Hatzidakis. Let's get serious now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u251	Should I be serious? You're the Minister. Don't you have an opinion on your subordinate?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u252	Mr. Hatzidakis, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u253	The manipulations were clear. Mr. Kitsakos was judged by his dismissal for his entire operation. I repeat it all over the tones. The efforts of the New Democracy did not get us a clue, which is what there is, a suspicion. It didn't come from anywhere. ELFE has not been favoured, as has emerged from the data I mentioned, so good luck in your new scandal, when you find out at some point! The special courts, Mr. Georgiadis, I'm sorry, don't scare us. For my money, I can't help you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The Minister of State, Mr Flamouraris, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u255	Unfortunately, Mr Hatzidakis, if you are on the way and beside you, someone takes a picture or you are in your office, where hundreds of people come in to take a picture, it is not my shame, but it is your shame to go out and say, or you or your colleague, I have not heard which one of you has said so. I've confused you because you have the same reason today. Is it possible to say that he's a friend of the Prime Minister or a friend of the Flambury, someone who was found when we won in 2015, than they tell me, to be next to us and take a picture of him? Do you understand that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u256	At the Pontoum of the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u257	What Pontium? Was he with the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u258	Mr. Vlavo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u259	Mr. Vlao, you don't understand what you're saying. Don't make me angry. You do not understand what you are saying, as you do not understand what the contents of the question are. That's what Mr. Stathakis asked you. You don't know the substance. You just want to say it's scandalous, that the scandals are doing it too, so you can deport...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u260	Not you, you alone!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u261	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u262	Well, we're doing it, but our people haven't even been outside the courts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u263	Then!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u264	Yours are from life to five years. So don't go on with this story. You must know that we will continue and protect the country's productive base and seek to live with dignity and, above all, to show up and look for the scandals that you have done all the previous years and have led the country to the deadlock, the rocks and the 350 billion that the country owes. The Greek people cannot forget what you have done all these years and you and the others who have left and are out of Ethiopia, that is, the PASOK - New Democracy that has brought the country to the cliff. The Greek people understood - and this is why they voted for us - and heard that we would stop the disaster. We'll try not to throw him down the cliff. I think we did it. We went out of the memorial and now we're on course of rectifying. This seems to be what's bothering you is what you weren't expecting. In other words, you did not expect the SYRIZA Government to move on and out of the Memorandum and to have a stable development course which we slowly did not perform miracles - it also improves the economy, with positive effects on the weak economic strata in the first place. This seems to be a disgrace to you, so you are looking for choices and solutions which, in my opinion, degrade Parliament and our political culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr. Flambury. The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u266	I have exhausted the time of the tritology as well, but I take the floor because you personally referred to it. With your political colleague in the New Democracy, I cannot tell you anything, because I do not understand the issues of stasis, and that is why I never comment on them. I say to you that I do not know and I do not draw any conclusions and, above all, I am not addressing them with sacks, in my opinion - I mean, legally, no political - questions. One of the prisoners. And I'm telling you this - and I am legally sceptical - because in response to what Mr Vice-President has said...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u267	Mr President, on personal occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u268	I won't answer you. You should know that I'm ending here. In what the Vice-President of the New Democracy has said, in other words, in matters of institutional decency, I cannot allow myself - in my opinion correctly - to ask anyone if there is any incident that is indeed personal and creates such conditions. The issues of institutional decency had to do with the style and content of the current question, institutional decency in parliamentary accountability when we have open criminal cases, which are currently in the middle of developments. I think that everyone - and above all the old parliamentarians - can be involved in this, that is to say if we start and convert parliamentary accountability, parliamentary control over criminal or civil matters that we will bring here and discuss. Imagine starting to bring in other parliamentary groups, involved people with other criminal cases, and to come here and say how it goes, who testified, what he testified, etc. That is why I said that there is a tight specific procedure, which is provided for only by Article 86 when we have specific cases concerning the law on the responsibility of the Ministers. What I have also said is that it is open, in my opinion, and we do not know - and we do not know correctly - that the issue and the haunting of damage, which is one of the things I reasonably think will be the case for the judicial officers who will be dealing with the case from now on. Indeed, Mr Voridis, there are signs and even serious evidence of criminal prosecution. From there on, however, there is an interrogative procedure, which we will see where it goes. I have dealt with it and now you want to reply to me on staff. I was concerned about why you asked me specific personal questions...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u269	Did you answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u270	...who doesn't answer because you're not allowed and you still don't understand it. So we know what Mr. Kitsakos says in this case-file? May we know that? No, it's not allowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u271	There's a press conference...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u272	What do I care about the press conference? Am I going to sit around commenting on quality? I told you this gentleman is indicted. He becomes innocent and can say whatever he wants. What he says is controlled by justice and certainly politically by you. So we're talking. Is Mr. Kitsakos a witness? Oh, no. What is it? Prosecutor. Is he trustworthy as a defendant? We'll see. Is he reliable when he says what he says about the government? We'll see. We will also see if there is damage. All of this is under investigation and you're addressing all this to me, answering you as an interrogator? You can't do that. Forget about these.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u273	The litigation will be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u274	So you're saying that the case-file should come here. What forensics? Do you know if Mr. Kitsakos has denounced political persons in the case-file for specific acts? Do you know that? Do you know the case file? So will you point out - for something you don't know - to me to pass on the case-file? You said I didn't pass the case. I transmit when he comes to me from justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u275	I'm ashamed of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u276	Don't be shy, don't be. I have others to be ashamed of me. I don't need you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u277	Please, Mr. Screka.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u278	I'm sorry, I had you higher.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u279	Mr. Screka, you don't like the answers I give, and I understand why. Always remember that the setbacks you're trying to make...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u280	We'll tolerate you too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u281	Mr. Screka, finally, please. Respect the minister who speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u282	Absolutely. As he respected us!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u283	Don't make me call you in class.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u284	You've got nice ministers!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u285	Thank you very much. I, Mr. Screka, I'm not kidding, I'm not kidding.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u286	I shall follow Mr Stathakis' example.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u287	Mr Screka, you are still interrupting - and I am going to say - the Minister who speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u288	I get back what's heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u289	Good, Mr. Screka, not to be recorded in the Minutes. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u290	Thanks for getting them back. Be well. Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Dendia, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u292	I will not go far enough, Mr President, and I will not exacerbate my speech because I wish to express my wish. And soaring and wishing together don't go. First of all, on the substance of the case, ladies and gentlemen, I think that every intelligent person who wants to understand - because he can choose to close his ears - understands exactly what has happened here. It is obvious that there is a question of moving assets to three Cypriot companies, i.e. the Greek shell "ELFE" to fetch, any gain to go through to three Cypriot companies and beyond should the authorities of the country look to see what's behind these companies, although everyone can easily do business. The second is that there is a huge responsibility for how the CEO manages. And the third issue to be investigated, Mr Ministers, is whether the government is involved in this matter. That's right. No one quickly draws conclusions. I regret to say this because I sincerely hope that you will believe it - and I am never happy to talk about political responsibilities, which could have a criminal dimension. I don't like this thing. I think it does not help the country, it does not help its interests, it does not help the country. I therefore hope that you can take another opportunity, because you have not done so now, to prove that the government had no responsibility for the management of Mr Kitsakou. I am sorry to say that the initial readings, as they appeared in the debate here, and as analysed by my colleagues, do not convince a good listener. In addition, the involvement of Mr Petsiti, who is famous in our country, with whom any relations with him - I wish the photographic material would be accidental, as the Minister of State said - may be false, I hope it is fake - in this case in the double capacity, the alleged capacity, the envoy of the Grand Maximos and, on the other hand, of the official, who may have an interest in the money of the DEPA and whose business is a great debtor of the DEPA, does not create an acquittal. I guess he's making more questions. I conclude with a few remarks, and I refer again to the look that should prevail in this House. I have to say to you that I was impressed - and I am not saying it positively - by the Minister of State in his dentistry, where, at the same time, a trembling finger was addressed to the New Democracy, threatening it and at the same time saying that it will stay in the chasing of the scandals. I combine this with your protology, Minister, where you introduced us a peaceful political climate and I leave you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u293	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u294	Please don't interrupt me if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u295	I'm not interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u296	I leave you, first of all, in your own judgment, because I hope that your age has allowed you to have a fair judgement, even out of Ethiopia, in private, in the judgment of the other Ministers and in the judgment of colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is one hope in the place, hope is there when a climate of elementary level of dialogue is maintained. If this is done, there will be only one beneficiary and this beneficiary is not in this Chamber. It is not at this moment in this Chamber, to make it very clear who I mean. With these thoughts and in the hope that governmental events will prove true, in addition to what has been said here, because I say again that these were not enough - more suspicions have been made than they have given - I would like to wish all of you health, happiness, Merry Christmas and a good year!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr. Dendia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u298	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u299	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u300	First of all, Mr Tindemans, I did not threaten. I'm not used to threatening. Secondly, when I said that the scandals would continue, I did not mean either New Democracy or anyone. But you know very well that scandals have been committed in our country that have created appalling imbalances in the world itself, which calls for their revelation. This is not about the political parties. For example, you say that the DPRK scandal concerns the government, which does not concern it at all, because what concerns the government, as I have said in my speech, was that the ELFEs, MARINOPOULOS, the various industries which have been destroyed, should be restored. The same applies to the DEPA. But you say it's a scandal. I don't mean that. I don't mean we're investigating this guy's scandals. We will investigate all the illegality that has been committed by various bodies. In this sense, therefore, I also wish peace and joy to you and to the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr. Flambury. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the number 8/7/19-11-2018 topical question concerning the "disclosures regarding the action of the former CEO of the Public Gas Company (PPC) Mr Theodorou Kitsakos and the "invisible hand" that caused damage of tens of millions of dollars in the IDP.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u302	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Migration Policy: "Urgent arrangements for the competence of the Ministry of Migration Policy and other provisions". I propose that the rapporteurs and the special speaker should speak on the amendments for five minutes and then speak to any Members of Parliament who register with the electronic system for three minutes. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u304	Here, Mr. Mitarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u305	Mr President, because I do not think there will be too many speakers, I propose that they have the normal time in the bills. There's no reason...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u306	What do you mean, "the normal time"?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u307	Seven minutes for the MPs. There won't be many.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u308	After all, five minutes with tolerance given every time, seven are enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u309	You said for three minutes about the MPs, if I listened well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u310	Those who register...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u311	Yes, have seven minutes, as the MPs have in a bill. We're talking about a bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u312	Let's agree on this right now. If ten of them come in, we won't get into this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u313	Why don't we come in?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u314	If the rapporteurs, Mr Mitarakis, and the special speakers have five, we cannot give seven minutes to the Members who will be registered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u315	Let's give everybody seven minutes then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u316	Because it's urgent and it's a continuation of the previous conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u317	It's not urgent. There has been a substantial lifting of the urgency from yesterday by the President, Mr Voutsi. He said we should continue the meeting, and if it takes a third day...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u318	Well, giving five minutes to everyone is understandable. But giving the speakers seven minutes is not possible. We have to deal with five minutes and those who register...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u319	Okay, five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u320	Here you go, Mr. Pallie, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u321	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u322	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u323	I would also suggest to colleagues, beyond the five-minute period - which I derogate from and welcome we did yesterday, and many ministers were asked, there were answers - and beyond the urgency of the bill, there is a consultation between which ministers and what clarification the parties need in the bill. Some ministers were asked yesterday, like Mr. Kouvelis, Mr. Arachovitis. There was this dialogue in order to...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u324	All the ministers left to talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u325	...avoid...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u326	At the moment, Mr. Army is still in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u327	And any other Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u328	From that point on, if it relates to a question to a minister, we will certainly not deprive him of the right to be placed. If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u329	I think that yesterday's agreement was the debate today on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u330	Mostly in the amendments, so that the procedure can be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u331	And the Minister's dentology comes up, so all of us will be able to put us in the shutdown.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u332	So, since we agreed on this, Mr. Psychoyus has the floor for his placement for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u333	Thank you very much, Mr President. Perhaps a small tolerance, because there is enough to say. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I see neither New Democracy nor the PASOK, who raised the universe yesterday on this issue. I don't see much participation and special warmth. You do well and you want to talk about the amendments, but I do not see the participation that this issue should have and this so important problem for you. I don't see any involvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u334	We needed time to read.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u335	We needed time to read.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u336	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u337	You are doing well and you are asking for the floor on the amendments, and that is why we have - and rightly so - given this opportunity so that they can be discussed. But you always make impressions. That's what you're interested in, the impressions. So let's go now. As the practical issue has been discussed, I would like to say clearly from the outset that this practice must indeed be avoided as far as possible. As soon as possible, the Ministries will bring the amendments forward in order to study them, of course, taking into account that some are extremely urgent and proposed at the last minute. But, yes - the Minister of Finance said so - there must be as early as possible. But who's asking for that? The PASOK and the New Democracy, which brought more than a hundred amendments on December 24, 2014, no matter how many were finally voted on, circumventing any concept of parliamentary procedure, which has collapsed in recent years. Of course, it was a government which soon went to elections and fell. So, we understand what the customer's photographic character you invoke. I am not going to put it on the balance because I said before that for us the cubit is another and we want to demand that the amendments come on time as quickly as possible. However, we must stress this and knowing the procedure of the Greek state, which in some cases has difficulties and distortions, which you have created forty years and you have demanded, even at the last minute, adjustments - I wish there were not - as well as immediate needs, which are for the benefit of society and which must be made. We are now actually going to the point, because the important thing is that you finally vote on these amendments, as the government has done with all the positive measures in recent years. So let us see what amendments these are. It is the Ministerial Amendment 1864 of the Ministry of Rural Development, which provides for the misappropriation of the accounts of farmers for Community aid, which concerns 90% of farmers. Are you with 10 percent of the farmers? Parliamentary Amendment No 1877 concerns the extension to ensure the operation of the Sikaridis Foundation for Unappropriated Children. Is it not an important amendment to come and vote? Is it not important to vote on Amendment No 1878/16 by the Ministry of Migration Policy, which broadens the competences of the Reception Agency in order to find suitable places of temporary hospitality for new entrants and move them to the mainland? Over twenty-five thousand people have been here since the beginning of 2018 in the inland. What do you want? You want enclavism on the islands? It simplifies the procedure of the Board of Appeal, in case of a replacement of President, so that the case is not re-examined from the outset and there is no delay. It extends fixed-term private-law contracts for the needs of the Ministry and, of course, provides for allowances to Moria, which is a constant demand for both residents and the region, regardless of parties. General Amendment No 1891/29 of the Ministry of Economy and Development regulates matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Economy and Development, including the extension and extension of the out-of-court settlement mechanism. That's how many borrowers take breath. And, as was released today in the media, it was an extremely critical and useful provision of this extrajudicial mechanism. The Deputy Prime Minister himself announced that we are consciously giving a second chance to people who were thrown out because of the memorial. It also highlighted the extension of the Katseli Act by means of a legislative act. It was also necessary by the lawyers and the citizens, but also by the institutions that had requested it. Let us see Amendment No 1894. It provides the opportunity to participate in the provision of financial aid and prizes to rural mothers and to third-country rural mothers. The Ministerial Amendment No 1895/33 deals with matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. Of many issues, I will tell you the significant reduction in VAT on concerts, which is 6% down from 24%. It's a whole chain. It's not just fun. They are the businesses, the people who work, the artists and we have to vote for it. Amendment No 1896/34 by the Ministry of Digital Policy regulates a consistent request from the ELTAs. It shall facilitate the provision of the universal postal service by the provider to the citizens of the country, as the process of paying part of its costs for 2017 to the operator is accelerated. You did not, when you were a government, obviously by favouring a private initiative in ELTAs and being against the universal coverage of the postal service. That is what you are serving and with these private interests you are going on. So are these the laundry arrangements for you, ladies and gentlemen? It is the arrangements that bring breath and restore social injustices that you, for the most part, have created. I would ask you before your responsibilities to see the amendments. We said that we are taking a position and saying that as far as possible, this must be avoided, but because the substance is not of interest to you, you only create impressions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr. Psychoyo. Mr Varvitsiotis, if you do not disagree, I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Culture and Sport, Mr Army, in order to develop his amendment and to have the opportunity to comment on it as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u339	Mr President, let me now speak and then the Minister sees what I'm going to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u340	He'll be covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u341	Will you cover the amendment too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u342	It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u343	So here you are, Mr Colleague, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u344	Mr President, what no one has understood is why we were shouting yesterday. We were shouting because four hundred pages of amendments came in a bill. And the President of Parliament came and told us that these are urgent arrangements and we need to see what we are going to do at the end of the year. I know what urgent arrangements are. It's these ones here in a tumor. Unnecessary and unacceptable arrangements are the ones that are whole bills. It is not an urgent arrangement to be made at the end of the year the change that is needed by the Chief Inspector-General. It is not an urgent arrangement that you bring in, which has nothing to do with expenditure or any arrangements, which have no expenditure and accountancy. Where did you get it written? I should like to say to you, because you are cut and we have so listened with a very very strong voice and the Minister yesterday and to the committee to say "I am thinking of not leaving any child uncovered", that today a letter from a 16-year-old child who is hosted in the Cymru Cymru of Evros, says: "I'm trying to hang myself. I've tried to kill myself three times and continue to think the same. Food, for example, sucks. If we gave it to the dogs, they wouldn't eat it." This is a live complaint about the costs, which you legalize, and the provision of services, which you are giving. And when we tell you that you can't keep running the system with extraordinary expenses, you tell us, "But what do I do? These are exceptional situations.’ The Citizens' Counselor comes in and says that it is not justified to continue this practice to derogate from the existing legislation, and we consider that in an emergency situation by means of procedures derogating from the existing institutional framework, neither the rule of law is served, nor human rights are properly protected. Who else has to tell you? Who has to tell you that after all these years, you cannot be constantly working on emergency needs? The problem isn't solved either. You only come here and present your own parliamentary majority, which today does not just vote for regulations by the Ministry of Migration and Explanation of Costs. Total expenditure, which you justify, is EUR 24 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u345	You should analyse them for us, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u346	It is EUR 900 million for the Ministry of Finance, EUR 15 million for the Ministry of Digital Policy, EUR 550,000 for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Defence is close to 5 million euros, according to what the Minister told us, because there is no report from the General Accounting Office. The Ministry of Culture is 435,000 euros. Immigration Department, another two million euros. For the Ministry of Shipping, we don't know. It's not the report. You come here and say, with the amendments, which you are proposing, that the arrangements you have made for the withdrawal of tankers after "AFTER ZONI" are incomplete, because you are giving ships more than 40 years old to operate. One that you've arranged, one that you've given up, one that you're doing again. That's incomplete! Two years now, you haven't managed to solve this. You tell us, did you legislate or wrongly legislate? Finally, with regard to the arrangements that come here and relating to EAV, VAT, Enterprise Greece, cultural capitals, buildings that the Ministry of Culture has still not been able to rent, alcohol, CBELs, taxis, OSTH, which has become so great a mess, so much reform you have done, which we are constantly giving extensions to the regime. Do they have anything to do with the end of the year? Here, the way you legislate, show or are completely incompetent or that you are a government on a run that comes on eve of the year's closure to legislate what was ready to do to show that it is doing a project. I would like to reply to the President of Parliament, because he came here and told us about practices, that the President of Parliament and the Bureau must protect the Chamber. And Mr. Voutsis has not protected the Chamber. It has not protected Parliament, when the laws on the vote on redundancies have not yet been put on the agenda for two and a half years now. It has not protected Parliament, when it has not yet entered the agenda for the previous day's debate on immigration. It has not protected this House, when it does not accept and in any case there are invitations to witnesses in the committees of inquiry or in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. And it does not protect this House when it does not put a brake on the government so that all this tumor can pass the suffering of the committees, the hearing of bodies, the public debate and consultation of all these bills, because most of them are bills which have nothing to do with the end of the year. So, ladies and gentlemen, do not cover behind the excuse: "You did the same in 2014." You said you would change them, you said you were every word of the Constitution. Sadly, you are proved not only worse than the past, but you are also incompetent and more opaque than you imagined the most morbid mind. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, Mr. Varvitsiotis. I should like to inform you that the system will be closed after our colleague has completed the Civic Opposition. I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Culture, Mr Army, to develop an amendment. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u348	First of all, I would like to explain the four amendments. I would like to say: The Ministry of Culture has tabled a draft law. This draft law has also been passed through the suffering of the CEN. The comments made by the CEN have been incorporated. Of course, because of Parliament's workload and the reasons explained yesterday by the President of Parliament, this bill did not have time to debate and vote until the end of the year, and so what we have done is that we have only chosen four regulations, which have two features: firstly, they are very important and, secondly, they are really urgent, as I will then develop. The first regulation concerns public limited companies set up by municipalities to host the institution of the European Capital of Culture. They are public limited companies, which can and are financed by the municipalities, by ministries, by various entities and normally, according to the law of public limited companies, this funding should be entered as income and tax. We have therefore identified this issue on the occasion of, of course, the Elefsina Capital of Culture 2021, which is a real case, and the regulation that we have presented precisely has the exception of these financing from income tax. Sure, it's a very important issue. If this regulation is not passed by the end of 2017, the European Capital of Culture will be taxed on the grants that it has legally received with EUR 300,000. So I think it is very important to help this important institution and country in general. The second relates to the rehabilitation work carried out for many years - it has been launched by the previous government - in 'ACPOL'. It is the Ministry's property building in Patisia, Averoff and Marni. It is a project that is funded and is evolving for many years. For its completion, an additional contract of around EUR 100,000, much less than 15% of the original contract and below the limits of the pre-contractual control, had to be made. The services proceeded with the payment of some work, which has been done and then informed us that, according to the new case law, this additional contract should have been passed by contract. Our people signed it all and said the story. If this arrangement is not voted on by the end of the year, a number of payments will be lost, we will have the ESRB to deal with the project. So this arrangement is presented to settle a story - how can I say it? - Definitely a misinterpretation of the services. We should, if you like, discuss the problems of public administration. However, it will cost the country a great deal if it is not voted on. The third provision relates to a chronic problem - Mr Varvitsiotis mentioned before - of the Ministry of Culture. I will call the Ministry of Culture "like the dog bitch". There is a central service, housed in the building of Bubulinas Street until 2013 owned by the Greek State. Since 2013 it has been one of the twenty-eight properties of the Greek state. Unfortunately, we are now paying rent and, indeed, we also need maintenance. This is another debate and it is not the time. All other services are in fifteen - twenty buildings around and further away from Bubulinas Street. Therefore, a strategy solution is being sought, and not just to go to new leases, which will carry some services, into some apartments - to say it - that will be turned into offices and some other place. It's an arrangement that every year comes to the House. It's a time-consuming matter. It is the legalisation of this expenditure, because the original contracts had not been made by the Ministry of Culture, they had been made by various bodies of the Ministry of Culture and some of them have been abolished, such as the Appropriations Fund for Archaeological Works. It is therefore a repetition of a procedure. With the Minister of Culture we have worked out a solution for the overall regulation of this issue and we will present it in the next period, the permanent solution. The fourth provision relates to a date in a Joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministers for Economic and Financial Affairs and Development setting on 31 May as the final date for sending appropriations with comitology orders, in order to be regarded as legitimate expenditure. In the Ministry of Culture we have the following specific features: a large part of the funding, after the large increase in revenue from the archaeological sites, monuments and museums in the country, comes from the Fund for Archaeological Resources and Appropriations, i.e. the revenue from the archaeological sites is collected in this fund, the EIF, and then financed with a 40% percentage of the fund's reserves, the Ministry of Culture. The EIT is a legal person governed by public law. It must have completed its review process in order to be able to make this disbursement. By this law, this deadline is June. So a lot of money comes to the Ministry of Culture after June. So, for the special case of the Ministry of Culture, we ask the House to give us an exception on this date. Why now? Because money right now exists in the Ministry of Culture, projects have been done. It is rather inconsistent to transfer as debts that have already been done and there is money. We are therefore calling for this regulation. Finally, I would like to make a brief reference to the amendment by the Ministry of Finance and to thank the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture. The regulation for 6% is very important. It is important for the cultural area, but it is also important because it gives a comparative advantage to our country, precisely in cultural events. We, who have very often contacts with people who organise productions, know that they want to bring large global productions and one of the issues they have to deal with, are precisely that they should also absorb 24%, transferring costs. Where? On the ticket? So they leave our country and go elsewhere. Therefore, after the country's exit from the memoranda and with the financial space that the country has achieved, I think giving this part to culture is important. Why now? Because, as we all know, if you want to bring Rolling Stones and U2, you probably need to have a framework in time, not to say that I'm going to vote on it in a few months. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Because some people are on their way...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u350	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u351	Mr. Panayotus, then I'll give you the floor. Aren't you ready? If you're ready, I'll give you the floor, because Mr. Papatheodorou has informed me he's on his way and he'll be a little delayed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u352	Is there someone else who could be ahead of you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u353	Mr. Papachristopoulos, if he's ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u354	Mr President, let the Minister speak, because we have to talk about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u355	I'll give the Minister the floor. I've seen him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u356	If the Minister is going to leave...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u357	He'll let us know. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u358	I would like to say that, first of all, I am very sad at the targeting of the President of this House. I think the President of Parliament has done an excellent job all this time and as President in the narrow sense, when he is chairing here, and as regards the changes that have been made to Parliament by the administration and in relation to culture. This targeting really isn't worth it, and I don't think it's worth you too. I think it's a very big blow and I'm leaving it without further comment. I do not agree with what you said specifically about the President of Parliament. There was tension. We answered very kindly in the first phase. We said we agreed that you have good concerns. The President of Parliament came and told you that we can discuss today and between the two holidays. What else could the President of Parliament do? You said you did not have enough time to read the amendments to see what they are, what you like, what you do not like. He gave you all the time you want. Today we are discussing them and then you have continued the tension for no reason - in my view - since the process had been resolved. I think Mr Varvitsiotis has not read the amendments, despite all the time he has been given.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u359	He read them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u360	Then he read them, but he didn't understand them. It is also a possibility. There is an amendment concerning an undertaking that has no tax information, you mentioned it. Isn't that an emergency? A company that doesn't have tax information to be able to...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u361	For a year they knew it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u362	None of them is urgent, not even one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u363	Don't interrupt me. I never interrupt you. Unless it's...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u364	For fun.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u365	Not for fun. Secondly, we have explained to you about the concerts that we can't do it after that, because we just don't have to do the concerts. There are, if you look at them, I will not say one - some tax issues that Mrs Papanatsiou knows best about and why they are urgent. Because one of the examples you gave was for the Income Tax Code. He explained yesterday why it is urgent for those who listen to it. So I think we can, without tension, discuss these amendments. We are not bringing any amendments either to make our own people comfortable or to do something irregular. Most of it's a matter of dates. The President of Parliament explained to you yesterday, with great patience - with lifelong patience and intervention from you - that we had a short period of legislation because there was the debate and then the debate on the budget. I think we can now continue in a mild way, discuss them and go further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u366	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u367	On staff, as to what, Mr Varvitsiotis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u368	Can't the Minister say I don't understand what I'm reading?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u369	You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u370	You have tabled three amendments for the Greek Sugar Industry. Three, you have testified, not one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u371	He's another Minister, Mr. Varvitsiotis, but you don't read.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u372	Come on, Mr. Palley. Let Mr Varvitsiotis finish what he wants to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u373	Obviously, Mr. Chakalotos is also signing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u374	Well done. Apparently, he's signing them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u375	Mr. Pittsorlas presented them yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u376	Can I tell you something? I understand Mr Pallie's anxiety to prove, as he said yesterday, how humanist he is, but here we are not talking about it. If you want to talk about the amendments, I would like to say to you that you have three characteristics for the Greek Sugar Industry. For the OSH amendment and for tax information, yes, I find them urgent. Are all the other arrangements you're doing urgent? Is the amendment, with which I fully agree, that the police, who have suffered cancer, should be granted rights? I read what you're bringing. I tried to read. What you're bringing in and signing it, you know? Because, Minister, I think you are coming here to systematically mislead the House. And the suffering of the parliamentary work means transparency in the regulations, something with which Mr Pallis, of course, is shy when he hears it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u377	You have documented it on staff. Let's continue the process. Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u378	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u379	There's no personal, Mr. Pallie.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u380	To withdraw the insulting expressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u381	If it is ever possible to start this whole process! Please. Come on, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor. The Minister, Mr Tsakalotos, has rightly intervened, because I had to refer to the targeting of the Bureau of Parliament. Because President Voutsis has also come here to operate firearms and to be able to find a solution where, at least by a majority, the House agreed to continue the process for today. Let us not target the Bureau of Parliament, which is trying to help, even if we disagree, those who disagree with the way in which the procedure is delimited. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr President. Let's not talk about fire interventions, because you know there's the known joke with the firefighter, who's a fireman. Just so what I wanted to say to you today, and what matters, is this. I hear that you are fighting us, because we have caused the Ministers to be present, so that they can explain the amendments, but also because we have told you that there are too many others who are telling you the same things and who are denouncing or finding the same illegality, and that is what you should listen to. You must hear, for example, that we have not only said that there is no urgent procedure for these contracts, which you are retrospectively coming to legalise, but that is also said by the Single Public Procurement Authority. You do not want to hear it, because you say that in the end you are right and not the Single Authority. The Citizens' Counselor comes too yesterday, who says so. Firstly, it says that when we have a 97% reduction in refugee flows since 2015, three and a half years later there is no justification for invoking the urgency of any regulation. Why? Because they are permanent and lasting needs, which should be planned rather than supplemented by the process of derogating from all other procedures and existing legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u383	Does the Citizens' Counsel have competence to judge whether it is urgent or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u384	Well done, Minister. Simplifiedly, it does not violate common sense, as you do. And I'm telling you this. Since Monday I am right, not even the Single Public Procurement Authority, but the Citizens' Counsel now tells us that it does not have competence. We do not need competence to see today that there is no urgency in the regulations that you bring. But there's something else. So you choose to retroactively legalise the contracts for the Ministry of Migration Policy for the Ministry of Interior. I will also come to the comeco-tragic amendment of the Ministry of National Defence. Do you know what the Citizen's Counsel tells you, as if you were not due? He doesn't have any responsibility, but he says so. Everyone here is talking and they say that look at you, we're in an emergency, in an unforeseen need, three and a half years later. So we still have to make such contracts. And what's he telling you? It tells you that, not only the retrospective - it emphasises it - the legalisation of all the commitment acts is in favour of the appropriate general and vague nature, since it seems to occupy no leases, Minister only, but all the costs of your ministry. Isn't that what we say from the day before yesterday? And to steal an expression, if you want someone to make a gift from a jewellery store in the last few years, you will be given the invoice and paid by the Ministry of Migration Policy or by the Ministry of National Defense. Why? Here is what SYRIZA and ANEL will vote for as an amendment from the Ministry of National Defence, which was tabled yesterday. Expenditure - not expenditure on refugee, expenditure - incurred for the actions referred to in Article 96(1) of the Act of 2016, until the publication of this Act, shall be considered legal and may be borne and paid at the expense of the State budget. It refers to all the expenditure which has been incurred to serve the situation at the time, and we said that yesterday. We said yesterday that all of a sudden, Mr. National Defence Minister, because he saw that you were retrospectively dealing with many things, he said he would do the same, as did the Ministry of Interior, as you did by not separating the costs, saying that these costs were absolutely necessary because they were for property leases, etc. and other expenditure is not necessary. With what you gave yesterday, did you see what the Department of National Defence legalizes? It legalises contracts which have taken place in breach of the existing legislation. So you've given them to the contractors, and now you're going to pay them, and you're paying them that way. What does the Citizen's Counsel say to you more than we do? It tells you that it is not only by way of derogation, that is, a violation of the principles governing public procurement, but that it is also abusive, for one reason: because you do not separate them, they are vague, they are ambiguous and you want to put to them what is commonly called the tariff that has been passed by the Ministry. That's what this is about. That is what we are voting against. You know what? If the opposition were to tell you, you could say: 'But I am right.' Now it is not just the opposition that tells you, all the authorities and the independent authorities are telling you, at least two, and you continue to say 'Let it go through and vote and no one will control it'. Unfortunately for you, fortunately for legality, these conventions will be controlled, because they are abusive and illegal, because you do not have the right, even with the copying made by the Minister of National Defence...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u385	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u386	I'll be done. Even with the copying, made by the Minister, of your own rules, it cannot be clearly defined what contracts are, what the subject matter, what content and finally what the amount is. In this sense, we tell you that this process will continue to be criminalised, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we have said from yesterday that the prosecutors need to be interested in the conventions that you legalise and leave you politically and legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u387	Thank you. Mr. Panayotarus has the floor from Golden Dawn for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mr President. It seems the President's excellent work, judging by what has happened over the last two days. On the last day of the work, one of the two bills has once again been rounded off by dozens of amendments in this respect, unnecessarily, it is absolutely irrelevant! We've seen the calibrations and the intersections between co-government officials and anti-government officials, about who made them better and who made them worse. The radios have been playing since this morning what Prime Minister Tsipras said when he was in Anti-Population, for that reason the paranoid phenomenon of the dozens of amendments, on the last day of operation of Parliament for the year and the others, the government, are playing what happened in New Democracy, so we are trying to figure out who has done it worse than the other. Ultimately, the conclusion is: Or you are both the same, incompetent, insecure, as you say each other or the system, the mode of operation is cartoon and leads you to these situations. Eventually, it's a combination of all. And you are incarcerated, as you mutually denounce this system, which for decades has not been able to divide two donkeys of hay. In conclusion, we would like to remind the New Democracy, first of all, and the PASOK which they co-administered, of those famous 'rules', such as the one which is not forgotten, where, while the bill had been passed and its vote had begun, there had been three unlikely Members of the New Democracy, an amendment that 'given oil' to the conventions between bankers and various entrepreneurs or parties or to the sea-loving or amendments made by Mr Athanasios, which Mr Athanasios said was abolishing the article, the law itself, on this page and nobody understood anything at all at all. And when later, after it had been voted, someone read it, they saw what it was about to be "introduction", literally. And then, of course, they said 'our mistake' and they changed it, but the essence is that, as everyone knows, the most positive, the most favourable legislation applies to someone who is going to be accused. And with this instant mistake, too many have come out of oil. Also, yesterday the honourable President of Parliament came here and said "you will have as long as you want to discuss both Friday and Saturday, and next week and at the same time". He just wanted - if he was in his hand, he would - to be here on Christmas Day or Theophanes, because he doesn't have much to do with that date. Of course, bringing dozens of amendments of hundreds of pages at the last minute and then saying that 'we have all the time you want to discuss them' shows your curiosity, it also shows your instability and it shows where you have'registered' Members, Members of Parliament. Error, no precedent. We heard about the Citizens' Counsel, that is to say whether the Citizens' Counsel has or does not have competence. The executives of SYRIZA, during the first years of operation of the Citizens' Counsel, had him as the sacred cow and at the time Mr Kamines was also all the decisions of the Citizens' Counsel were 100-0 in favour of illegal immigrants and never in favour of any Greek, for any matter. Now because it does not suit you to what the Citizens' Counselor says, you go and get that he is useless, like the other independent authorities, some of whom are involved and have taken a stand on this bill. The essence of this bill, however, is that you are trying to wash out many dirt on the one hand - on the other hand - which is all the more important to us - is that you are trying to give more and more food and water to illegal immigrants and make them easier at all costs. And you put one more stone - although with this bill you don't just put one stone, you put a whole floor - on the degradation of Hellenism and the violent change of the population. In any case, as we have told you in the prototype, the Parliamentary Representative and our speaker, as well as our other speakers, have told you - 'Macedonia' - the aim of globalisation for the final attack on the states - nations will have absolutely no luck and the agreement of the Organization of former Muslim nations in Marrakesh is the beginning of the end of globalisation. For the amendments, the previous Members of the Golden Dawn have spoken and when it comes to voting we will tell you what we are in favour and what we are against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u389	Thank you, Mr. Panayotar. Come on, Mr. Papachristopoulos. You have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u390	Thank you, Mr President. I just want to make one comment. I will not waste time, Mr President. Last night, the tons came up and the word "washer" was heard too many times. I will admit that, in fact, this procedure should once again be changed and I do not like the logic of settling, because it was once done as an excuse that it should continue to be done now. I think, however, that the speech made by the President of this House was convincing, had arguments for what he said. When a budget is being discussed and we know that an emblem cannot enter anything else, it makes sense to accumulate needs, which must be regulated by the end of the year. I agree, however, that this procedure should once again be brought to an end. It is not a proper procedure, but on the other hand, I do not agree that tones should rise so much and that we should listen to words that I believe are extreme. I want, because it is years old, to wish everyone many years and to know the citizens, who are listening to us that at least some people, by the last minute, are in Parliament and we are working. I have no more to say. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. We are done with the rapporteurs and the special speakers. We're starting a list of speakers. Mrs. Cavadia has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not gonna run out of time. It is a common secret, ladies and gentlemen, that the lack of arguments leads to polarisation and, unfortunately, that very road is chosen by New Democracy. Unfortunately, in recent days, we have seen a very concrete targeting of the President of the Parliament, a President, who has honoured the Greek Parliament and who, with the valuable contribution of his colleagues, with the contribution of the Secretary-General of the Parliament, and of the entire administrative pyramid of the Parliament, has done a titanic job, which is recognized by all those who do not wear tight-cut party glasses. I honestly wonder, those who oppose the third state institution of the country, the third state factor, are accountable for what they are doing and how they lead with this attitude to consolidate it in the consciousness of the world that everyone is the same? We have heard the previous one from Mr Papachristopoulos, the representative of the Golden Dawn, using exactly the same argument. In fact, I wonder how far this alteration will reach far-reaching views of the representatives of the Police Party to the extreme right-wing votes. The President came to the Chamber yesterday and mentioned the reasons why there were so many amendments. The arguments were convincing and were given the opportunity to continue the debate today. But - our rapporteur has said so earlier - I think what is of interest to the Civic Opposition is the impression alone. So let them tell us which of the amendments that are being tabled will be voted on and which are not. They think they're necessary, yes or no? Here's Rhodes! And let's not get into this. I do not honour you, there are representatives of Officer Representation, with many years of experience. You know the more noise you make, the greater publicity. The more voices sound, the more captive titles come out. But I don't think that's the role that suits you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, Mrs. Cavadia. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, sixteen students and students and two trainers from the 1st Experimental Gymnasium of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u394	Thank you, Mr President. So, yesterday, speaking before 14: 00 at noon about the Ministry of Migration Policy bill that, as was shaped by the many amendments, it was now a slogan of legislation. A number of amendments were tabled this afternoon, which were essentially legislation or interventions on existing legislation, and I was confirmed by the view expressed at noon in plenary. You can understand, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not possible to speak, especially in a second language, about all the amendments. I shall therefore confine myself to those, which I consider to be of interest at today's sitting. I shall therefore turn to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Development and Economy concerning interventions in the extrajudicial mechanism and interventions in the law of public limited companies and legal entities. Of course, as this amendment comes up, it is difficult to vote in favour of it because the amendments are now common to be made up of many articles. Therefore, they must be voted in favour or they must be voted against when there are objections to certain points, even if otherwise they have an interesting usefulness, or if there is no doubt that the whole of the arrangements can be supported. In this case, therefore, the amendment which, as has been made public, extends the scope of the extrajudicial compromise - a mechanism, if you like, in the legal terminology. Is that a problem solved? EC 6-1989, point 2.1.78. Bull. The statistics, which have been given in particular by the Special Secretariat of Private Debts, indicate that the mechanism is being cancerd, indicate that the negotiation process is being made and it is often too cumbersome and stuck and only a small number of companies have succeeded in giving a solution. What seems to be happening, however, is that banks do not want to implement this mechanism and we see every day now that they are in the form of a discount of pledged shares of companies in banks and that they are moving the sale procedures with auctions. Therefore, with this comment, I see that the extrajudicial mechanism is not the one, which will give great businesses life to maintain their entity. However, let us see whether it can give small debtors a breath of life and also in relation to the amendments which are being tabled. I see today, as you wish, because of the short time, what you are facing, says, the big issue of non-business debts and enter a procedure, when the cause of the debt is outside the commercial law, can be excluded from the creditor or may not be excluded. Do you know where my mind went with this arrangement, as summarised? I have brought to mind the example of a mother with a minor who has been justified by a maintenance court, the husband has the commercial property and is led to the extrajudicial mechanism. How will the diet of minors be protected? It needs to be supplemented, if we want to salvage the principles of the family as well. Therefore, in this sense, I cannot propose, and especially in the Group of the European People's Party, to vote in favour of the first article of the amendment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall be extremely brief, Mr President. What also concerns me is that the procedure for suspending the necessary measures is being dealt with by the proposed regulation, for when we are in the negotiation process in the same mechanism, but it is not being dealt with again - I often have a position in the Chamber - the question of protecting the guarantors, whom we are putting in the mechanism, in the same bag, but we are protecting them very little and leaving them uncovered. I do not see here whether the Minister, Mr. Drasakis, or Mr. Pitsirlas, is here to discuss these issues, but, as I have said, I put them for registration alone. The new regulation is therefore incomplete. I also live in another, which, of course, will lead to the enrichment of some, unjustified, because while you have introduced, ladies and gentlemen of the government, a piece of legislation on anonymous companies, I see interventions now which make me surprised if they don't scare me. For example, Mr President, it is stated that when we have issues in favour of the asset in a limited company, and so far the capitalisation of the value in favour of the asset has been banned, because it was the reflection of the company's goodwill on the shareholder, you come and say that it can be capitalised. Does the principle of how the goodwill received by the company will be capitalised when the share capital is increased? Will the capital increase be proportionally distributed to all shareholders and will the old and new ones be fruited without the old ones having participated in the increase? These are issues that need to be resolved. Finally - because time is pushing me - I will also speak about credit cooperatives, very briefly. So you say that when a credit partnership is merged with another credit institution, the Minister of Economy will be required. So I ask, here: will we put everything in the same bag, credit cooperatives with a heavy past - which are there, but from what I know there are not many left with healthy finances - to restore them from a ponding situation many times? Can these arrangements contribute to growth and the economy? Apparently, no. We could have gone ahead with resolving this issue by attempting to merge with a standard piece of legislation. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Mr Pitsirlas told me that before the end of the year he would bring legislation on the mergers and transformations of companies to boost the economy, but he did not. It is a stubborn regulation today in the amendment it brings. Uh, we cannot vote on this amendment. And I live in that, Mr President. The rest will be developed by my colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Makis Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u396	Thank you, Mr President. I don't know who Mrs. Cavadia was talking about when she said that an incentive to the anti-population attitude is publicity. I am sure you realise that there are several of us who do not need to follow such publicity tactics. On the other hand, we must not agree that this is a bad practice. It is a bad practice, which can sometimes seem to be unresolved because of the delay in the services and therefore does not actually work, in a proper way, but it is a bad practice, which in other cases is completely unjustified and sometimes also wicked. So I come to what I have said, Mr President, to divide them into three categories: extensions which are not justified, only if anyone accepts bad administrative practice, legalisation of expenditure - I will say two things about this - and recruitment, for which I do not understand what is urgent. So I come to legalization. Mr. Secretary, I didn't have the pleasure and the honor of knowing you. But I have now read your CV, and I have seen that you are an employee of the Ministry of Culture. Therefore, you have a familiarity - I suppose I do not know - with what is called public procurement and you are bringing us legalisation, which is very comfortable to say that this is an additional contract. Has it not come to your attention that the main component of corruption is supplementary contracts? I'm not saying anything about you, so you don't take it as a personal. I am telling you something, which is an objective observation, which is general. When we have work, which is not completed and for which something has actually implied, the contractor then displays an additional cost and comes as an additional contract. As far as preventive control is concerned, I am not telling you that it has not been done in the past. It's done. I'm not telling you it won't happen in the future. It's gonna happen. However, the Minister's immunity, which is politically responsible, is pre-contractual audits, Court of Auditors' audits and a full statement of reasons for the suspension of the supplemental contract. And you say 'nothing of this I have done, but come on, Bulk, to legalize it, because it is a small amount', as you said. You said it's not more than 100,000, so nothing's wrong. And I did not tell you that within this orchestra of the Greek public we would ruin it for the hundreds of thousands, but it is not a way of defending one's approach and intervention at this point. Minister, you have brought legitimisations from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, by way of derogation, on the grounds of general reasons, such as bureaucratic problems. What kind of bureaucratic problems exactly? And why did they crash? And what does that mean to the Minister and the government? Mr. Minister for Migration Policy, how long will you still bring provisions to derogate from the legalization of expenditure? I have accepted - and I have said it in my previous position - that when there was the urgency of the refugee crisis, in fact because it was found unprepared at the time, to accept the urgency of the emergency and to accept, not lightly, the heart and not easily, by way of derogation from the legislation at that time. But that's four years ago. Even by way of derogation? How will you justify the other ‘by way’? What's the emergency and emergency? I am not telling you what has been heard of corruption, of opaqueness. I'm not telling you any of this. I say to you the 'derogation' how you justify it and why you are asking for it. And you don't ask for it for the first time. You have asked for it on several occasions. An amendment is coming, ladies and gentlemen, from SYRIZA, to legitimise recruitment, by way of derogation, of the general provisions on recruitment, at the "Athensian and Macedonian News Agency". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I don't understand. With what logic? Why should there be a derogation here? There is no derogation for recruitment in the health sector. There's no derogation for recruitment in public order. There is no derogation for recruitment in education. And will there be a derogation for us to get journalists at the "Athensian and Macedonian News Agency" and with a Christmas, new year's amendment? How do you justify that? What are these? You say we accuse you of recruitment and "what are these things" and that you are excellent. Colleague, not by accident - I apologize for criticising a parliamentary amendment, I do not know if you will accept it already - but the parliamentary representative of the SYRIZA, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u397	I hear you, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u398	It wasn't yours. Excuse me. I did not mean the current parliamentary representative, but Mr Manda, who has been accepted. He talks about an extension here of DPRK's special scientific staff by three years. On what excuse? With what thought? Why should a regular procedure not be followed for scientific staff? What's this? Here is the urgent need, which could not be regulated in a normal debate: we cannot, on the one hand, settle the question of recruitment to the Commissioner-General for Public Administration at the end of the day, because, if we come to discuss this properly, we cannot, we cannot make progress. The recruitment had to be done now. It's going to be Christmas. Don't be late. Is that justified? Is this a serious government? Are these serious things? Is that serious legislation? And because you said about the President of Parliament, I won't say anything. I will say that the parliamentary majority - I leave the President - has a responsibility to put an end to this. You do not have a responsibility to say that "Look, two minutes, on real and urgent issues, in fact serious, in fact directly, to accept the derogation from good legislature". These are things that you accept, and on your own responsibility, we reach Parliament and the parliamentary process? So I sincerely want to beg the government this. None of this is urgent. Nothing! There's nothing urgent. You cannot come by amendments and recruit unnecessarily. We cannot constantly legitimise expenditure, which is problematic. It is not possible, through this route, to encourage the phenomena of maladministration. Mr President, it is unacceptable, and it is clear that there is no symphony leaf to hide the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u399	Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr President. As the debate goes, we must apologise for hearing the majority rapporteur, who fought us earlier because, he says, we had them come today to explain our amendments and listen to our criticism. That's what you said. In any case, Mr Tsakalotos yesterday did not understand that it is sometimes the drop, which breaks the glass, because he took the floor at the time of the debate - it should have been over, because the other bill was scheduled - to argue in favour of the urgency of this pain of the eighty-five-page Ministry of Finance - because journalists write less - and fifteen articles. Mr Tsakalotos, as a good Marxist, should interpret the issue a little Marxist, that it is the quantitative accumulation, which at some point leads to qualitative changes, and therefore it would be appropriate to leave, because this would be a change of attitude, from what we have done so far as a consistent parliamentary group. In any case, we interpret it as a retreat of the government under the pressure of withdrawal, and we are now being given the opportunity to overthrow all the arguments. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a matter of urgency as a whole, but of amendments which highlight the inability of the government in some cases, but - I would say - to many others and the appropriateness of the government. I would like to explain: last week, on 11th of the month, in this Chamber, we again discussed tax provisions from the Ministry of Finance. It was thirty-two articles, containing provisions of the Customs Code, the Code of Taxation, the Code of Income Tax, the VAT Code, the Income Tax and Parental Benefits Tax, the Public Accounting, the Estimates for Public Property. In other words, what this amendment has in its sixteenth articles was the corresponding contents of other provisions. And now you're telling me that the Treasury could not bring these provisions into discussion with the ordinary procedure of the bill? We had provisions for bioethanol. We welcomed the fact that the gps will be forced to enter the bioethanol trafficking. Even so, the government has not put gps on heating oil, but in any case. And today he brings us other provisions of the Customs Code. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make a little reference to these provisions. What is of great importance, in addition to incompetence and curiosity, is feasibility. It is not today that the government, like the father-in-law who asks for custody from the court, because he is an orphan, tells us 'that's what you've done forty years and we're trying to solve them'. Let me give you a simple example of what we've done forty years and what the government is doing. In 2014, Law 4270 was passed that introduced accounting standardization into our country as well in the public sector. Under this law, the Directorate-General for Economic Affairs is formed in each Ministry. And we have the cumulative government for four years now, which leaves critical ministries, such as the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Public Order, the Ministry of Rural Development not to constitute the DGs, not to take up expenditure, not to be published in the "GENERAL". So it comes now that Mr Tsakalotos tells us "thank you guys, we have to legitimise the costs, because the charge will come". We can't show this mercy because he's the master in charge. And he goes to Europe and apologizes for the reforms. I must tell you, Mr President, that the OECD has recently been here on a step-by-step basis to assess us. This reform is the most critical, as has been evaluated, to get into public finances in the country. So instead of Mr Tsakalotos or Mr Tsipras pulling the ear of the ministers, which are not in operation, he comes here, after all, to legitimise expenditure. This is a practice which we must denounce. So don't tell us that the process was inextricable and you ask us to ask for 'I'm sorry'. She had her purpose. Because we may not vote for pigs in the bag, but SYRIZA's colleagues would vote without knowing why they are voting. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I come now, Minister, to tell you that in this bill, which comes in the form of an amendment to eighteen articles, there are a number of issues that one might vote on, for example VAT 6% on concerts. We've proposed you for 6% of the dying movies. You won't bring it. But it's not urgent. We could also vote for the provision extending the process of administrative resolution of the dispute after a hundred and twenty days if the Council of State exists. Okay, that we could talk about it properly. That's not urgent. But can I tell you something? Provisions which legitimise the Ministry's expenditure, which is responsible for overseeing all the Ministries if they implement the National Accounting Plan and the procedures of the Directorates-General for Economic Affairs, why should we vote on them? So you who control others cannot legitimise expenditure by the normal procedure and we are now coming to legitimise the costs of three years? Also - Excuse me - are you forfeiting taxes in pending cases? Don't tell me you don't do it. And don't tell me that's not a device that is appropriate. In any case, if I may finish, Mr President, because time is not enough, I would like to say this: if we were to speak on the basis of a regular bill, two or three of these provisions, we would vote on them. We would obviously vote against the others. We therefore have to vote 'at present'. It is also a flaw in the procedure for amendments in the way they come. In any case, the government on matters which we have tabled and which are prepared and legally prepared, such as the protection of first residence, the hundred and twenty instalments for natural persons, the inconsistency of the free professionals, could also show a good mood, since the majority is making an effort to defend the President of Parliament. Does the President of the Parliament not have responsibility for any legislative proposals that we have put forward and never come to discuss? That is what I have to say, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u401	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u402	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to talk about the amendment to the Public Administration Inspectorate, which I had the opportunity to support in detail yesterday. Since two issues have been raised, however, I have to answer them. Mr Varvitsiotis spoke about the urgency issue and Mr Vorides spoke about recruitment. First of all, let us make it clear that the staffing aid is being provided by both posting and general inspectors - we are talking about twenty-five secondments - and of the Office 'Where Essexs'. It's distracting me. The only recruitment is for three lawyers with a mandate leased, because of the legal aspect, so to make it clear that this amendment does not have recruitment, but secondment. Now, let me explain why it's urgent. I mentioned yesterday - I do not want to tire, but to explain to you - that the powers of the Chief Inspector-General for Public Administration have been extended since last year. The one competence that has been widened relates to the disciplinary procedure. This, indeed, is not an urgent procedure. Mr. Voridis, I'm answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u403	I'm listening with care. I'm just making the next argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u404	Okay, but listen first to the answer and then argue. The second concerns the coordinating inspection and control body. This is not urgent, indeed. But there are two other responsibilities, which are urgent. One is the broadening of the responsibilities of the Public Administration Inspectorate for 'from now on'. As you know and in accordance with the law recently passed by Parliament, it will be applied - an extension has been given - since this year. It has to be adequately served in its office, because it now assumes more powers under the law, because the circle of persons controlled is expanding. And precisely because staffing is provided for by secondments, it takes time to complete it, so that the corresponding supervision can exist with the application of the new law. The second reason, as urgent as the new powers, concerns the establishment at European level of the institution - it is a new institution - of the European Public Prosecutor. On behalf of our country, the representative of this European institution is the Chief Inspector for Public Administration. In order to meet European obligations, therefore, as it will also be entrusted with European affairs, which are of national interest, it is therefore also necessary for its office to be fully operational. That is why the secondments with additional inspectors are planned. So we're not talking about recruitment. The secondments to the "Where Hems" Office are because from Genarris it must be ready to follow the new law on "before you" and the new inspectors for the European Public Prosecutor which also starts now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u405	Thank you, Minister. The Minister has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u406	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that the procedure, as is now under way, is fully justified by the wise proposal made by the President of this House yesterday, precisely to give time to have a debate. I have to answer Mr Voridis, who has given me the honour to report. So, I've got my own five minutes of publicity, which I might mean I need. I mean, I'm not more familiar. Well, you referred to the supplementary contracts. You're absolutely right. Do you want to talk at the moment about the history of ACROPOL, from when it was acquired, until how we got to this day? I didn't do that in my place. It is another issue that we are discussing at the moment. The issue of ACROPOL is a very difficult story that has many roots in the Ministry, about how the project has reached it. What I should like to mention above all is this: I have never said that the hundred thousand euros are very small. For me and for the entire government and one euro public money is worth it. What I said is that the services said that they were under 15% of the original contract, they are under one million, provided for by compulsory pre-contractual control by the Court of Auditors for the main contracts and proceeded to payment, without suggesting that the additional contract be checked. In fact, this is how they justified their misinterpretation. The stake in this amendment is that if this amendment is not made and the five million euros that have been paid this project will not come from the ESDP, it will be borne by the national PPP, and so it is time that a politician has to make a decision. However, I will say that this political leadership has not hesitated to show its attitude to various contractors. A moment ago, we declared a contractor to a large digital project of the Ministry, because that was really the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u407	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Adonis Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u408	Mr. Undersecretary, I'll start with you. I'd like to give you my own five minutes of publicity. You're very sympathetic, and in any case, I wish you a good term. We are not talking here about whether we are accusing you of corruption on this amendment. We do not blame you for corruption on this amendment. The issue raised by the New Democracy, and I am also a different one. All those nice things you told us about, didn't you know about three weeks ago? If you knew about it three weeks ago, you could have followed the normal parliamentary procedure, had this amendment come to the committees, had we time, and we had to check what exactly it is we are going to do, call the service, if we wanted, to tell us why they are making this mistake and to be clean and nice among us and go to Christmas without having to waste this time. That is what we discussed, that is why we had to come in this way. Apparently, the hundred grand aren't very small. I will only tell you that for possible damage to a hundred and a grand for me, you have been looking for me for two years with the Committee of Inquiry in this House. So if I wanted to take it that way, I'd have been looking for you for two years. That's not what I'm saying. But I say: wouldn't it be much better, Minister, now that you're starting this effort in the government, be careful not to come like this? Because look at what's bad. You bring it up the last day, before the House closes for Christmas, and you said it was a very good initiative for the President of Parliament to give time to discuss. If you'll excuse me, it wasn't the government's initiative. The government brought it to us, so as not to discuss it, if the President of Parliament saw the fuss and said to discuss it. Your intention was not to discuss it, because if you wanted to discuss it, you wouldn't have brought it an hour before the House closed for Christmas. I'm going a little bit to Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou. I'm amazed at what you said. You are a very experienced politician, have you made Minister many times and with the PASOK government in the past, and now with the SYRIZA Government, and what have you come to tell us? That because of a 'avoided' law passed by the House over a month ago - take note of this - you are now being given the urgent obligation to bring an amendment, and you are being closed for Christmas. Note: Urgent obligation to one competence, for which you extended three months on the same day. In other words, you had such an urgent obligation to go over all the procedures to something that was urgent and at the same time to extend them. Madam Minister, I beg your pardon, but that runs counter to all the rules of reason. Or it was urgent because the first time of the year had to be implemented, so what to do, we understood it, we were late, we were wrong, we were going to catch up with the House, or it is not urgent and we were extending it to him. To be both urgent and urgent, that, Mr President, only SYRIZA, no one else! The application of "subjects" don't you know that yesterday it took an extension of three months? You told us that, because of the law on 'avoidance', which Mrs Papaspyrou took over, you had the urgency of the procedure, and I tell you that on the day you bring the urgency, you proposed and you vote and you are extending. So you're doing...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u409	The distractions take time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u410	Madam Minister, assuming the secondments were twenty-five to thirty days, it is more than thirty days that the law on 'before time' was passed, which gave this responsibility to Mrs Papaspyrou. If you were to follow the normal parliamentary procedure - I repeat that you are an old parliamentarian with PASOK and that is why you know them - you could have shown respect for Parliament and not bring it to us when we are closing for Christmas. In particular, I am amazed, Mr President, that also takes the character of staff. How do you make such a ruse easy on Mrs. Papaspyrou? Ms Papaspyrou, who is a fully failed Public Administration Inspector, or is probably not an inspector, but is a party body of the SYRIZA, has also presented you with her statements to the Committee of Inquiry, where she also accused you of your term of office for 45 million deficit in the CEDEFOP. If the Inspector is so good, Mrs Papaspyrou, and you have to hire her to take up and get her out of Rushphetological and Emergency, at least to say to us: is Mrs Papaspyrous right with Mr Polakis who were also accusing you of your term of office? Because I only heard about my own. I didn't hear anything about yours. It's a strange thing. As for me, Mr President, I was supposed to have thirteen in my term. There's no deficit. Neither did Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos have a deficit, nor did I. It's the deficit. It's nonexistent. It's in Paul's mind only. But I am surprised that Mrs Xinoyanakopoulou has not felt the need to respond! Did you have a deficit of 45 million? Did you eat them? What did you do? Do you do it to her after she's done all this to you? Just you, just PASOK! I'm going to Mr. Vitsa now, and I'm going to go. Listen, Mr. Vitsa. Here, in Greece and in Europe, it is bad. OLAF has intervened to control the funds and on its first prerogative it says that irregularities have been detected in Greece in managing money for the refugee issue and in violating procedures. Where? So let's go where.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u411	Has OLAF said such a thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u412	On a subject that Greece is discussing so strongly about whether money has been eaten, are you, Mr. Vitsa, and are you enacting with urgent amendment Christmas? Excuse me. Do you have anything to hide? Why did you bring it near December 24th? Why didn't you bring it a month ago, to go to committee one or one of the amendments, to see which company it is, who took the money? I'm generally talking about your government. Why do you suddenly choose an hour before the sitting, before the Christmas Parliament closes, to bring amendments to the legalisation of expenditure relating to the refugee question? This shouldn't have happened. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, to close, we too have the Members of Parliament responsible, and that is the greatest issue. I've heard Mr. Voutsi, whom I like, but let's go to the real world. If he were here, Mr President, Zoe Konstantopoulou, would this government dare bring these amendments yesterday with a stroller, so many documents? The answer is that no, because when they went to do so - to be fair with Mrs Constantopoulou - it was a mess in the Chair and cut them off. That was yesterday. A stroller came in to carry them! In order not to be fooled, you say that you have given us time to study them so far. Is it possible that we really have checked what all these costs are? These costs you bear and legalize must normally be investigated one by one. Nor can we know exactly what they are, nor do the Members who vote know what they are voting for. So, of course, there are thousands of ribbons here - to say it very simply - hiding from the back. So why do we leave this picture and not go to the ordinary parliamentary procedure, see them in peace one by one, so that if anyone has one doubt, check it out, 'clean sky lights are not afraid' and we are all loved? The big question therefore remains: why did you choose the last day that Parliament closed down to legitimise all these expenditure? Why didn't you follow the normal procedure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u413	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u414	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u415	Evidently the Minister wants the floor. Mr. Georgiadis referred to it twice - three times, so the Minister wants to speak. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that we are here today precisely because we are respecting Parliament, and I think that every colleague who is here respects it. Of course, however, it is not respect for the institutions and institutional functioning to say that an amendment is a rhetoric for an institution. I want to be clear. As Minister of Administrative Reconstruction, which I have the broader supervision of public institutions and bodies, when the General Inspector for Public Administration as an institution currently has increased powers from European and Greek legislation, when Parliament itself has recognised and strengthened this function, I believe that such claims are insulting both the institutions and the institution of the Public Administration Inspectorate and Parliament itself, which confers powers. Therefore, Mr Georgiadis, I imagine that you did not mean it in this way, when you refer to amendments - Ruspices. These are amendments which European legislation also imposes on us, because the European Public Prosecutor must function. As far as 'outside' is concerned, because Mr Vorides talked about recruitment, recruitment is not available, they are all secondments, and the procedure to be followed in respect of secondments must be carried out. Because, of course, you have referred to my parliamentary experience and, of course, to my ministerial service, I must tell you that I am personally proud of the period when I was Minister, from whatever Ministries I have been through. I think that was also recognised by the House's own Committee of Inquiry into Health, because I did not see anything different at all. From my point of view - I barely saved 80m euros at that time, because, as you know, I cancelled 12 million vaccines, as we were judging for public health and the public interest. I'm never used to dealing with personal peaks. In political terms I respond and think that for my own stand, at least, I have nothing to add. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u417	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u418	Mr President, I would like the floor for seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u419	Mr. Georgiadis, here, you have the floor for a few seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u420	Madam Minister, I had no personal tips for your term of office. On the contrary. I told you there was not a single euro deficit, the opposite of what they were saying. That's what I pointed out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u421	Mr Stamatis is the last speaker and the Minister will close the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u422	And the Parliamentary Representatives!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u423	And the Parliamentary Representatives!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u424	Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to an agreement. Wait a minute, let me tell you a few words. The Bureau has been consulted and we have been consulted since yesterday. Don't act like you're wondering now. You know that. Whether the conversation gave birth to interest in taking the floor, see it, but we've come to an agreement. Do you know how many people he expects to leave this House? You know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u425	Mr President, we are in a parliamentary process. We have been challenged by colleagues to come to the debate today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u426	First of all, the fact that some people want to leave for Christmas doesn't mean they're doing it to cut you off. I said this in a framework of collegial solidarity and you know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u427	Mr President, it is understandable. However, the representatives of parties absent today have produced this debate today - and we have rightly done so - to talk about the amendments and we need to put them in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u428	We all agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u429	Mr President, I would like to speak on a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u430	Wait a minute. Who would like to speak? Mr Metarakis, Mr Pallis and Mr Theocharopoulos from the Members of Parliament, and Mr Stamatis precedes it. Mr. Vitsa, you now have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u431	Obviously, Mr. Georgiadis came to say something, but unprepared. What can we do now, Mr. Georgiadis? You said that I brought an hour ago to an amendment - I imagine you mean yesterday - that 'legalises' - in introductory terms, for me - some costs and you did not notice that this article is in the body of the bill, that is to say, it has been discussed in the committee and that it has been discussed properly now. The rest, when it's time. I invite you to be more careful when you say these things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u432	Mr. Stamatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u433	The peculiarity presented in today's debate is not the fact that the amendments which come at the end of the year are two other things. The first is that there is a huge difference here with the previous ones, because in many of the amendments there was not even time to read them, and much more when there were amendments and there are amendments that we would also need to use to clarify the contents. The second, which differentiates, is that there is a collapse on the part of the government and its Members. Instead of coming here and saying that we are faced with an emergency, they cause us and cause us to remember their own behaviour. And for those Members who are ignorant, I would like to remind them of something. In December 2013, we had an urgent amendment, closing time, to strengthen the shipyard workers, who had been unpaid for months, to Christmas and you voted against it. And now you're coming here to put us before our responsibilities? And you're facing a party that's not like you, which, when he thinks is right, votes for it. Tell me a bill, an amendment, a provision that you, while we were government, voted on it. You don't dare! So put the tons down and stop admonishing us. You're the ones who need admonition. Let's go to the real part now. What's urgent? Let's see what's not urgent. It is not urgent that the security of Ministers or of the ministries should testify at the last minute, something that they should have and could have done before. It is also not urgent when measures that can be adopted are to be taken next year. You have been told by my colleagues many examples. Why am I saying that? Because here we could say: Yes, these provisions are judged as urgent, we understand the need and vote for them, because we are not SYRIZA.You come to our faces and tell us in cold blood and see them vote. No, we won't vote for them! Also, I was very impressed by another subject. Three years ago, there was a "industrial" PPP. This year I don't see that. But the NPV is a predetermined process by the Constitution. You could make use of provisions that would definitely have to be adjusted until they came to the House to legislate, adopted by Parliament. Why didn't you use such urgent cases? Did you take them to the President of the Republic and refuse? Because he had to take responsibility for judging these provisions urgently. You didn't go. Why? It is a question you need to answer. I should also ask you, Minister. A moment ago Mr Varvitsiotis spoke about this dramatic letter from a new sixteen years old. It is an issue that needs to be considered by all of us. You as a government have been responsible for four years for dealing with these people in at least humanity. You yell and protest because he had broken an air condition in Ammondaleza. And today we are reaching these dramatic findings and cries of agony and desperation of people, as we have been informed of rape complaints. We're seeing murders, we're seeing blackmail. And I ask you, Minister, why did you say so? The situation, you say, is marginal. What's limiting? For limiting what's the limit? How many murders do they have to be? How many rapes have to be made to get away from the border? Is it not possible that Greek law should not be applied and that Greek law should not be applied? Is it possible to hear all these horrible things and become internationally resilient and to expect us to demarcate what is a borderline situation, where are the limits, whether or not we have exceeded them? Let us see here a part of the expenditure on money laundering in the past few years and on feeding and other things. For so many years this expenditure has not been legitimized? Why do you not give the House the right to discuss them one - one, see if the complaints that occasionally have seen the light of publicity for the destruction or for the specific epilepsy of taking some works or services are true? We don't have that right. And by closing - a moment ago I saw the Minister of Justice - it will be here to hear it - I wanted to say that yesterday I was surprised to read a complaint from Mr Kotzias, who says that he just voted against the expenditure on secret funds after a few hours - the costs of the Defence Ministries, the Interior and in particular the U.S. - he received threatening calls and threats to his life. Shouldn't we take a position on this? Shouldn't you take a seat? Tell us what happened, it's urgent. We can't get through it like that. Who threatened? Because Mr Kotzias felt it was necessary to clarify two ministries and lead in particular to the EIC. What are you insinuating? Watch out. The exercise of power either by a parliament or by an executive is not a prerogative of what it exercises, it is an obligation under the Constitution, and the Minister must also speak when making such complaints.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u434	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u435	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u436	Mr. Georgiade, honestly tell me what you want? Why do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u437	I would like the floor on personal grounds obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u438	Staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u439	Sure. Didn't you hear what Mr. Vitch said? He said I should come better prepared, etc. He said it by name to me. Is there more personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u440	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u441	Mr. Vitsa, listen. I've never hidden it that you're very sympathetic to me. I have such strange tastes. But I have to tell you that when you say something to me, you must be very careful. I didn't refer to the bill article. If I wanted to refer to the article in the bill, I would come to speak yesterday where we talked about the bill. Today we are talking about the amendments. So I ask you, in this amendment, the amendment - an addition to the draft law of the Ministry of Migration Policy entitled 'Urgent arrangements for the competence of the Ministry of Migration Policy' concerning the legalisation of the expenditure of the Ministry of National Defence, this Vitsa, the Minister for Migration Policy, which is written here, is your signature or another Vitsas? Is that yours? So take it in the Minutes to that I am referring to. That's what I was talking about. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above amendment, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I was extremely prepared. You guys probably have a panic. So, as an urgent amendment you have brought to legalise ex post expenditure. Inside the report of the General Accounting Office of the State says "costs unknown" in fact. We'll see how they get paid from where. That's what the General Accountancy says at the back exhibition and it's fine with Vitsa. So, please, at least the staff that I wasn't well prepared to get it back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u442	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u443	All right, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u444	Well, Mr Georgiadis, someone must be extremely naive to believe you now that what you referred to was the amendment of the Ministry of National Defence, which came yesterday morning and not an hour before the debate is over. I don't know what other signatures outside the Department of National Defence and me are. I think it should be the Ministry of Finance or something. And yet again, because you and another colleague have said that we should not get personal....
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u445	I would like the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u446	Why do you get ahead of yourself right away and say? I say this, therefore, that we are talking about the sums of the Ministry of National Defence that concern refugee alone. Understand? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u447	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Kalamata High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Pallis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u448	I shall simply mention that, for the bill itself, I will not be placed, but the Minister will be placed immediately afterwards. I would therefore like to make a few brief references, Mr President, to what has been said today. We obviously accepted this debate yesterday in order to discuss amendments which some have been tabled shortly later during the day. Colleagues have made statements since the beginning of the day on a bill - laundry. Obviously we have accepted the proposal by the President of this House, which I must also defend for his overall attitude, and also to present my objection to the insulting way in which the rapporteur for Officerial Opposition referred to him, a continuation of attacks on the President of this Parliament using his party identity, although, above all, his attitude has to do with his institutional role rather than his party role. From there on, it has been observed by most of the speakers - I shall mention by name Mr Carras, who was put on the spirit of today's debate on some of the amendments - that it was a hypocrisy of the whole process yesterday, a pretext for the fact that few members of the anti-population finally come and sit on a copy-paste, some along with their yesterday's position, probably only on the way of their personal expression, because they see elections in front of them. Specifically, the rapporteur of the New Democracy spoke for a moment and a half at the beginning of the amendments, a total of which he then left a washing swab attached a little to the refugee problem, but the 25 million that he mentioned are regularizations or have to do with the Ministry of Rural Development. And we all understand and explained yesterday by the Minister responsible, because this amendment has to be passed today. Last night was today. Today they may have had action in society, but that's not what you're interested in. There has been a number of amendments which do not have the character of urgency, a criticism of the Ministry of Culture. I'm going to make some reports. On 21 December 2014, we had several amendments. It was ending next year. I didn't want to get into this process, but I'm going to have to. I was not a Member at that time, SYRIZA might have left the debate. That is why we agreed to continue the debate today, because we respect Parliament and its procedures. Amendments. A very nice amendment, which was not an election, allowed polling to be published until one day before recourse to the polls, because that was an urgent matter before the year was closed! It had to be that day. Let me remind you of two other amendments. And disprove me if that's not the case. The Ministry of Culture - and I will say that you did well on that day - entrusted the Greek Film Archive with the responsibilities to safeguard the country's film heritage along with the corresponding amount corresponding to this project. And you did well. Why do you now come and unjustly blame the Ministry of Culture? Let me remind you of another amendment very important and I will close here. On 21 December 2014, it was an amendment defended by Mr Varvitsiotis for the Municipal Cemetery of Glyfada and related to the assignment of space for the Shared Air Force, etc., to settle just before holidays the placement of the Municipal Cemetery of Glyfada, which was then located elsewhere, but does not matter. There was an emergency on Christmas Eve, the Glyfada Municipal Cemetery, to go to another use. This climate is being cultivated and the tension is insulting Parliament's procedures. We are open and will be open to discussion on the substance of the issues. I believe that all the ministers have put themselves on the amendments and that the urgency has also been explained, and why they have come to this draft legislative amendments. In closing to wish you good holidays. The rest will help you a little and in your spirit, because your concerns about the future of this government will continue to exist. I don't know when there's gonna be elections. You see elections in front of you. Here we are, and we'll talk about it, but you'll actually get in. To raise Parliament's image in the eyes of society and not to dragging into places and misery - the Minister will answer, I will not speak about it - which is what is dragging you into the right and harming democracy and society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u449	Thank you very much. Mr Metatakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u450	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin with a comment made by one of my dear colleagues from the majority, referring to the criticism of the President of this House. He said it was for reasons of impression, identified with extreme right-wing logic. Would it describe SYRIZA's motion of censure against Evangelos Meimarakis, a third state player in 2014 voted by SYRIZA and the Golden Dawn? Mr. Tsipras said at the time that it was a necessary choice. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the government's inability to manage immigration policy is incomplete. And in 2015 and now it is unable to preserve the borders, it is unable to operate effectively and transparently in the Cyts, it is unable to separate refugees and immigrants, for reasons of ideology to make returns to Turkey of those who are not entitled to international protection. The non-permanent residence of refugees and migrants in border regions must be ensured. We voted against Articles 6 and 7, where they legitimise expenditure and grant derogations to economic transparency procedures. It seems that many of the costs have been deducted from European funds because of the way in which they were managed and now the Greek taxpayer will be asked to pay. Our main reaction yesterday was to the volume of the amendments, but not just to the volume. Four of the seven amendments tabled and eleven of the twenty-two ministerialmen were late. Do you know when it was to be submitted? Yesterday morning at 10:30 a.m. was the deadline. Half the ministers came out late in the day, so that they could not get to a committee, that the views of the MPs could not be heard, that there should be no bodies and that we cannot in plenary with the closed list of any substantive debate yesterday. The government was forced yesterday - and it must be the first time in the Reformation - to lift the urgency in the face of the overall reaction of the Reform, because we were all ready to leave the Chamber. The amendments which have been tabled - as usual - fall into three categories. Firstly, the extension of time limits where the State had an obligation to do something specific and could not do so. Many of these amendments relate to financial management. They are given representations to ministries that had to create General Finance Directorates, to ministries that had to have special procurement procedures. Yesterday the Ministry of Trade Shipping referred to it. In 2015 an amendment to take the Port Fuel was passed by way of derogation from the procurement procedures, which expired at the end of 2016. An extension for 2017 was granted for June 2018, then for December 2018 and now for 2019. This is no longer an emergency. It is your choice to operate in opaque derogation procedures. The SYRIZA rapporteur mentioned the case of the Sikaryidian Foundation. Mr Colleague, let me tell you that the amendment you have brought does not address any problem with Sikaryidius. It merely gives temporary extension to tax information so that the Foundation can continue to operate by not paying taxes and contributions. This is not a solution, Mr President. And after four years, if you want to solve the problem, you have to bring a solution, not last-minute extensions. I would also like to say something about the deadlines: I remember the Prime Minister having come to the Chamber when the "Saint Zone II" accident took place and said that the legislation on infrared tankers is changing immediately. There was a new extension without changing any legislation. If there is a new accident, ladies and gentlemen, what are you going to say in this Chamber? Second extension to your own law that the Prime Minister supposedly supported to solve the problem. Second category of amendments: appointments and steps. The RES case is clear. On the subject of the general inspector, the Minister did not respond by what procedure the twenty-five new inspectors would be selected. ‘Seconds’, to a service that has already been criticised for the way in which cases such as ‘NOVARTIS’, ERIC or Eye have been handled; Last category is the legalisation of expenditure. We have had too many such cases in this bill, without transparency at the last moment, so that there is no - you think - responsibility for those who signed these expenditures. I'll close with a question. The only amendment that you have not tabled, Mr Minister, is the only amendment tabled by the Opposition on the issue of extending the insular VAT, with a general number of 1882 and a special 20. You can answer what the government will do. Do you accept it? If you do not accept it, what is the alternative? You spoke of a system that is stable. I would remind you that before you came, there was a stable system, there was an insular VAT. To close, I wish everyone a good year. And it will be a good year with Prime Minister Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u451	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u452	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u453	Why, my colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u454	On staff, why did the honourable Member make a reference to what I said earlier?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u455	It wasn't an aggressive report.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u456	No, I would just like to give an answer, because it is a very specific issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u457	So you want the floor to answer, not on personal grounds. Here you go, Mrs. Cabadia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u458	I would like to say to the gentlemen of the Officer's Representation that whoever accuses someone of something, let us make use of the possibilities offered to him by the Constitution. I wonder why you are undermining and not moving institutions. This marginal right-wing atmosphere, which you try to create, can only lead to suffering.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u459	Thank you, Mrs. Cabadia. Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u460	Minister, I'll start with the letter. I would like to make a point, because what we live in refugee, does not honor Europe, does not honor anyone. The letter of the sixteen-year-old Syrian refugee today - because the bill relates to immigration - is a punch on the stomach for all those who are talking about human rights and how this issue needs to be resolved. In fact, he says that with the expenses of his parents from Syria he left the war. He tried twice to come to our country. The boat had fallen, he came, and now three times he's tried to end his life, because he's disappointed. He wants to live in Europe and cannot find a way to live in Europe. I say this because at the time we are talking and trying to find a solution, we need to realise that some of our fellow people, refugees, live a tragedy. This is not just a theoretical matter. We need to find solutions. What is happening in many regions of the country does not honor our country or Europe. If the whole of the European Union and our country do not go into this topic to solve, then we will be in constant drama. I come to the specific issue that we have been here today. We had two bills in the form of an emergency in one day. Inadmissible? Inadmissible. It was, however, the last day it was discussed. Twenty-two amendments came in the morning, one of which - especially the Ministry of Finance, with some eighty-five pages - came a few minutes before the draft law was concluded. That's what we're talking about. We are not just talking about late amendments or about something else. If there was no terrible reaction from the opposition yesterday, if there were no protest, the threat of leaving the bill - some parties have already left - would not be accepted. I did not see the Members of the government protested yesterday. I'm afraid so. They should do so themselves to the government and say that it cannot continue. They should ask themselves to go the next day.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u461	We're in position.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u462	We're here for this reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u463	And we cannot be here all the time with arguments like: "But, and in 2014 it was." First of all, I'm not going into the procedure if it did the same or it didn't. But it is unacceptable if you think that the citizens who hear us out there right now can accept these arguments. Anyone who thinks that is really dark. They shouldn't even get into the conversation. Yesterday in my speech, in the morning, before the amendments were reached at noon, I suggested that, when we go to the next year - the simple thing, if nothing else can be done, I mean - one day that, for example on Wednesday, a limit can be set that nothing else can be tabled, that they can be announced to the Ministries and Thursday to be discussed. In other words, we should be able to get one class into this, so that we can solve it, so that it does not happen. If this had been accepted, we would not have entered the whole process. And also - and indeed - the speakers of the Democratic Integration have told you a little while ago - some amendments are necessary, some other amendments would not have to come in the form of urgency. Some of the costs are settled. Do you know that there is an amendment that costs EUR 453 million, about half a billion, of the Ministry of Rural Development, for three years? And here you want to tell the government that for three years it has been discovered now, the last day before the end of that year? Why was it an unauthorized instrument that signed them? Why, in 2014, was the Ministry's reconstruction and was it not integrated for the next three years? And the Minister for Finance - we have said so to you and it needs to be understood - is the responsible person, and he should actually ask the ministers for why these expenditures have not been made legally. Instead, the Minister of Finance actually accused the opposition today. He did not say anything about how he would resolve this matter so that next year in here we would not come in on the last day to make money. We told you the proposal with the public accountancy, which has not been implemented and is ready since 2014. Answer the questions, so we don't have to live it again. In any case, I tell you what sort of solution is. We suggest some ways because they're going to happen again. The concern is, they're going to happen again. You'll come in the same way next time, the last day, the last minute. We cannot continue this process. It will no longer be accepted. That's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u464	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. The Minister has the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u465	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Theocharopoulos for his prediction that SYRIZA will again be here in government next year. What happened yesterday, ladies and gentlemen? The President of Parliament made a proposal, in fact because an amendment was tabled too late in the name of the Ministry of Finance. I think it was a wise suggestion, I said it yesterday. And you understand, I imagine, that the Members of the Chamber, like the Bureau, will not rise to shout. He has other ways of informing about their logic. But on the other hand, the President of the Parliament was very enlightening about things you know. In other words, since December 9th, the legislative work had stopped. Can I tell you something you know? The bill we downloaded, yes, you could describe it as having urgent provisions. But this procedure has made these provisions - and indeed the committee has said that it is not all urgent - urgent. Let's get this thing straight. And the President of Parliament told us again that he was discussed at the Conference of Presidents and said that it was wrongly used to all of us in the last bill, which is urgently to go too many amendments. It was agreed in the one bill that there would be no amendment in this bill, good or bad, to introduce all the amendments. You mean it's an exaggeration? Let me agree, too. But first of all, there is no change in the nature of the bill and of the provisions as a matter of urgency that another day has been given to study the amendments and in particular the amendment by the Ministry of Finance. It is still urgent. That time was given. You have as a New Democracy, if I'm not mistaken, three hundred seventy scientific associates and partners provided by the House, I don't care about the others. It could be done. Today we come and do not speak specifically, this, the other. So it makes me suspect you didn't want this to happen because it solves issues. That's my guess and I'm going down. And of course I have to tell you this: Rightly, anyone would say, you are judging - this is the work of the Member, this is the work of the political parties - if something is urgent if it is urgent. But as far as who is going to go down as an emergency or an emergency is concerned, who judges it, is first the Minister responsible and then the House accepts it, does not accept it, votes it, does not vote it. To know and to hear what people say. I won't make a general speech. I've done it at least twice. I would like to say a few things about what has been said today and one or two more things. Look - and I say this to KIDISO, KINAL or PASOK anyway - you repeat the same argument, and since Monday I told you that at the time the committee meets, our Ministry has a meeting with the Independent Public Procurement Authority. And on the basis of what we discussed with the independent authority, which in her letter the first one is that I am 'unauthorised', we have had the debate and in the legislative improvements, we have solved all the problems. That is the issue. The second issue: Why do you speak with so many inaccurate things? I'm telling you that the Citizens' Counselor on his site posted a comment. He didn't report or do anything else. I mean, that was a piece of information. I ask you: is the Citizen's Counsel in relation to finances? So I'm the one at my ministry who hasn't taken it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u466	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u467	Yes, you will. But I'm telling you, does this have anything to do with finance? Is he in the field? Is this about what's urgent and what's not an emergency? I will return to that matter. Of course, we listen very well to criticism and criticism. I have said that if I consider criticism fair or unfair, it is out of the question. What one has to do is take criticism and say "what I can correct and what I cannot correct". Because it is very easy to start saying "Mr. Metarakis, because he is in the New Democracy, he makes me unjustly criticised." I don't see that thing. I say “he has made a criticism. The man from somewhere starts. Let me see if he's right." That way, at least we're trying to work. So what the Citizen's Counsel says, we hear it. In particular, we are listening to what he says about human rights. But to be clear, he's not in the field. We know very well what is going on in the field - I will say this again - and we consider that we are taking his remarks into account, but it is not the Citizens' Counsel. Of course it's not a court. We take into account his observations, but he does not substitute either the House or the courts or so. And because you repeat it and repeat it now, Mr Papatheodorou, and not Mr Representative of the PSY, and because we have to sort of resolve the question with the criminals - from what way and in what way they will be controlled - I challenge you - and I say from the outset that I do not accept any parliamentary or ministerial immunity - to address the law on all the things you have complained about in relation to our criminal responsibilities, just so that you have no doubt that a prosecutor will take it or not take it. Let's sit down and watch it so I can use the legal means, clean and clean. The third issue, because in the end I will say about urgency or not, is the costs of the Ministry of Migration Policy. I think that Mr Stamatis has referred to what I will say or I do not know who else, perhaps Mr Metarakis. Not one of the costs that we bear has been disbursed by any institution of either the European Union or the Commission. It's expenditure from our Ministry's budget. The basic costs are two. I'm coming from now on. Does it not grieve you or, if you wish, does it not trigger us on the other side, what Mr Varvitsiotis said, the letter he read about the sixteen-year-old? I'm telling you this. If tomorrow morning our ministry gets out of the prison this sixteen-year-old and rents a house where he's going to put him in and treat him, what are you gonna tell me? Why didn't you run a competition? Hey, good, say it. Will you tell me, why didn't you predict four years ago that this man, like other people, will come to Greece? Is there anyone who's predicted it? Do you know in 2019 how many will cross our borders? Or do you know - I told another meeting, which had nothing to do with anything, when they asked me for some clues - what shoe they'd wear to give them, what jacket they'd wear and what kind of pants they'd wear to strengthen them? Or when we have a ISOBOX contest, where no one should even be left in ISOBOX, should we say and where are ISOBOX going? It's like the man who goes to the kiosk to get an ice cream or cigarette, whatever it is, and his pervert says "to give it to you, you have to tell me where to take the ice cream and where to smoke the cigarette." That's not how it works. But there are laws about them. So I say that one hundred and fifty is to host a thousand eight hundred people who came from the islands. There was a call for interest, there was a ministerial decision and we took them all with a single price for accommodation in Grevena and a single price for accommodation in Bolvia. I mean, we didn't play numbers. I don't know who these people are, but I'm saying this thing happened for what? Because the bureaucratic procedures were even slower than Europe, which took place at the end of October. He was assigned to the IMO to do this work. That is the main issue. The second issue concerns the Centre for Host Milia, where you listen - please, Mr Vorides, I will ask for your consent or consent - for why all this time the rents have not been paid. Because the logic is that the one who rents us is a tenant with the right to rent and there is a great difference between the amount that he rented it and the amount that he has rented us. Is this the job of the Ministry of Migration Policy to control it or of the ILO? We've carried it. Now, of course, that's where things come from. This blocked PPC's expenditure, so these two amounts are the main amount we are discussing. We list the Ministry of Interior by far. Because if I knew what would happen, I would say: "Let me go, guys, I'll have them in my pocket to rest." Because an employee who broke his car tires went and changed his tires, paid 500 euros out of his pocket, didn't tell it the same day at the service and told him to get it back. That's the dreadful thing about the interior department. I have given the statement about the expenditure related to what Article 6 says. Everything comes out of our budget. They have never gone as requests to the European Commission. The second is this. There are the costs of the Ministry of National Defence, which have gone to the Commissioner or have sometimes responded for formal reasons by the European Commission. In fact, for the greatest amount, the formal reason is that there was no substitute for the member of the committee. This is happening. I've given the situation everything. In fact, I too, in order to be clear about the refugee issue. The other can't go and put that I did helicopter expenses. Let us resolve, by the way, an issue which, if you'll excuse me, but I find it a little unfair. The Minister of National Defence shall sign contracts of more than 10 million. The Deputy Minister of National Defence signed between 400 thousand to 10 million and the Chiefs, other than the ones they have given, up to 400 thousand. You know that, they're laws. The procedure mainly relates to the DGSOS of the Ministry of National Defence and to the local TOKSOPs. Now, if you tell me what TSKEDS are, I don't remember exactly. That is why I said that we have a regulatory law right now and that two other legislations will come. One, mainly, is for reconstruction, in relation to the responsibilities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other services and capabilities. I'm telling you, we're trying to get him in January. We're almost done. Another law on the Immigration Code will come. That's the point. Now, let me say the last one and close. Let's not get into what Marrakesh is, what happens, if that terminology or other terminology exists, how humanitarian is etc. Anyway, we're not going to find these things in this Chamber. I think we'll find them in the neighborhoods. Look at that. Take a glass and do an experiment. Let's say this glass is Chios's CYT, since it's Mr. Metarakis here, and it's in a relatively good condition. Start putting in water or taking out water. At some point where the water will come up here and it will slowly run out, is it an emergency, or is it not an emergency? I imagine you're all saying this is an emergency. Do you know when this will happen? Based on the statistics, will you get it? And if so, based on what statistics? I therefore have to deal with the urgent situation, as I faced the urgent situation the other day when the current in Moria fell. Not me, Balbakakis confronted her, and I say it because he can hear me. So Balbakakis dealt with it. To pay off this man, the electrician, who went and built the current on the two days, shouldn't I have to take responsibility somehow to cover it? On Wednesday afternoon three people leave the ministry and go to Samos, because for humanitarian reasons people have to leave there and I take responsibility for what I'm doing. Do we have time to do all the paperwork? I guess not. Two and a half hours this morning, I signed documents, urgent documents, which were needed from the return of VAT to the High Commissioner up to anything else. That's life, you know, some of you were ministers. I'm not praying for you again, so we can be politically right between us...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u468	On another line.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u469	I say, therefore, that we shall proceed with that logic. To finish, I want to say this. Our amendment solves two - three issues. I will not bring them back, but it solves a very basic issue, apart from the fact that we have to pay for our participation in the IGC. Whenever I go abroad, I get caught and told, why haven't you paid your IGC membership? All right, we've been saving, we've made the dividend, we're memorialists, we're going to start solving these issues, too, but I'm going to say two words about two amendments. One amendment concerns the Ministry. We always have this problem. We have the appeal committees made up, made up of two administrative judges and a member of the High Commissioner, and often happens - not too often, but often - to leave for a number of reasons, so the cases they have to go back to the beginning and are thus lost, one would say, the possibility. Second amendment. We have reached agreement with Mrs Fotou and there is the amendment by Mrs Skoufa, which I accept, in order to create a new account for the women of third countries. I think it is a positive measure, it has no serious budgetary burden. I want to say something else I said this morning. In the Ministry of Migration Policy, we think we are never enough. I see Nikos Toska, and I tell you that we were talking about it when he was at the Civilian Ministry, with the following logic, that we always thought that we would have the possibility of another man saving him, another man being able to take care of him, another man being able to make better use of him. It is important that we are standing, alive and continue and devote these efforts to the memory of Kyriakos Papadopoulos, who saved thousands of people in the Aegean Sea with his hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u470	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u471	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u472	Mr. Varvichiotis, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u473	Deuteronomy, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u474	Neutralities are not anticipated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u475	Twenty minutes, he talked. In addition to all the rules, we have heard a lecture of twenty-five minutes and are the rapporteurs not having a dentistry? Since when?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u476	First of all, they don't have any dentistry. If you want to talk, because the Minister spoke a lot, it's another story. For reasons of elementary understanding between us, I will give you the floor, but don't tell me now that you're going to do a dentist!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u477	The nature of the emergency...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u478	Nobody's gonna do a dentist, and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u479	I beg your pardon, Mr President, but the urgency has ceased since yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u480	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u481	It's gone. It should have been completed yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u482	Mr Varvitsiotis, this is your conclusion, there is no agreement that we have made.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u483	So we're quid pro quoing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u484	It is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u485	We were initially placed on the amendments, we interrupted and there was a second one in the rapporteurs years in this Chamber, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u486	But there's been a special consultation on today's meeting. We don't have a classic function.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u487	What kind of agreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u488	Anyway. Mr. Varvichiotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u489	Three things very simple, so we don't get confused in this Chamber. I realize it's difficult to run, but what you described is not management, it's a mess. The fact that the Minister is working on how to get the electrician of Moria two and a half years after the Ministry has been set up and four years after it operates under your own rule is your problem. The fact that you have not been able to organise budgets for the FIFGs is things that show your own administrative failure. The fact that you are constantly coming to say about emergencies, when this year there is no definite situation in increasing the flow of the islands of the eastern Aegean, forgive me, but now it is sounding like a paralysing excuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u490	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u491	I've got Mr. Palley here, who's always a reporter, and I don't know...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u492	For what you said, if there's a need for Moria, Viannou...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u493	You're always a feeder. There is a need to leave and change the way the country operates in migration. This need exists for refugees and islanders to be relieved.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u494	What about the islanders?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u495	To be relieved. Second, I heard about the Citizen's Counselor. I do not know if you read it, are the remarks that you said 'Why does the Citizens' Counsel speak?'
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u496	Did I say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u497	This, how does the Citizen's Counselor put it, how dare he?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u498	Is that what he said?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u499	On the basis of the Constitutional Mission of the Citizens' Representative for the Protection of Fundamental Rights and its competence to improve quality, an analysis of the effects of the regulations, the Independent Authority sets out the following summary comments aimed at contributing to the improvement of the proposed arrangements. That is what it does and instead of listening, you said, "Why has it been placed?" Do you want to read the report of the Scientific Council of Parliament, to see what it says about your arrangements? He raises very clearly the issue of constitutionality. Consequently, the compatibility of the provision with the Constitution depends on the nature and extent of the expenditure received and the gravity of the lack. For everyone? For the rest, it hasn't been placed, for that volume of arrangements that came yesterday. One final comment. The plaiting card is a time-consuming problem in the House. These are embarrassing things. Shamefulness! We are talking in the Committee on Revision of the Constitution about changing the method of legislating. If it bothers you so much, why do you not come with our proposal to ensure that every provision passed by this House does not have any effect of surprise, but of respecting all the conditions of transparency? You do not accept it because, in the end, you do not want to go through a night's matter, you do not want to spend any real change in expenditure and you do not want to make any substantial changes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u500	Mr. Varvichiotis, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u501	If you were really in the mood, too many of them would have been deposited in time, since last Friday, even yours! I did not understand why you brought two amendments to your bill yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u502	It's not two.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u503	Two amendments you have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u504	It's the Department of National Defence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u505	Why didn't you bring them? You are also showing your own lack of respect for the parliamentary work, since you have not announced them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u506	We are done, Mr Varvitsiotis and Mr Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u507	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u508	Please help us a little bit to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u509	Mr President, I would like to speak for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u510	Hey, not again!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u511	Hey, how? What "no, again"?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u512	I'm so sorry. You are breaking the cross-party agreement that has been made on the present procedure in cold blood. Hey, geez!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u513	You gave the floor to Mr Varvitsiotis, Mr President. But I'm sorry, our rapporteur won't get second?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u514	And what's that supposed to mean? Will you comment, will Mr. Varvitsiotis be retrained, will Mr. Papatheodorou take the floor again, will you see that as reasonable? But whoever speaks is centering on his side. I get it! Can this thing be done?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u515	Mr President, I would just like to speak for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u516	You have given Mr Varvitsiotis the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u517	Here, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u518	Mr President, I will try, at least, to stop the debate here and not to trigger a new circle. I promise. I shall therefore refer to the two things that the Minister referred to personally to me. So there is no continuity at all, since you have referred to me. You referred to two things. You mentioned saying that I made use of the post - your words - of the Citizens' Counselor posted. They're remarks. In fact, you mentioned and said that "with what competence does the Citizens' Counsel come to express an opinion, observations, on an economic issue, has competence?" So I say to you - to make this clear for the future, but also for today's debate - that the Citizens' Counsel has responsibility for matters of interest. Is this his refugee issue of interest? He's in charge. And in any case, my intervention is about whether or not we respect the principles, not a cartoon. The independent authorities have comments on the draft law. The second thing I want to say. You said that "Mr Papatheodorou, if you forsake us that he will intervene, I should also know it, so that I can meet the needs of this process." Answer: I am not saying it, Minister. What both authorities tell you and the Scientific Service are that you can intervene in the legislative framework. You can't make contracts in breach of Union law. Why? Because you cannot use the presumption of urgency as you wish. That's what we're telling you. So, as far as I'm concerned, I said that the interest of the judicial authorities in these conventions is starting when you legalize them. So I think that, as you have seen, I have referred to a dialogue between us. The debate can be closed here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u519	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u520	Wait a minute, Minister, why do we have to come to an understanding?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u521	Mr President, I would like to speak for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u522	You have a minute, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u523	Thank you. I'm gonna need less time. I will not abuse or exploit the possibilities which the Rules of Procedure do not give - and that is not reproach for you - but some colleagues are taking advantage of it. What I will say is that the Greek people know very well and remembers what the previous government's term was, hunting witches, repression and deterrence, even at sea. That is why it will reward them in the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u524	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u525	I'll talk too soon, Mr Varvitsiotis, I have brought an example of how one thing can become an emergency. I didn't say I did. Indeed, I mentioned the name of the Commander of Moria, Mr Balbakakis, as I could mention the name of Ms Danou, who is in Chios, and he knows it. That's what I did. But I must now remind you that, apart from the fact that we have also established a fixed system for each Centre, CYT, but I must remind you that the public accounting does not provide a budget by such small units. There is the budget of the First Reception and Identification Service and it works with it. So don't tell me: 'Oh, why don't you have a budget.' Secondly, of course, I - and I have said so in many extreme ways - take into account the remarks made by each independent authority, but I say that the independent authority is not a parliament, the independent authority is not a Council of State, it is not a court, the independent authority expresses an opinion. So I'm saying I'm taking them into consideration, but I can disagree. And I said I disagree, because in the field, in the daily needs, there are certain people who work here, work there, etc. And the other thing I said - because you have mentioned the question of criminal prosecution too many times - I have said that I should make it easier for you. And make it easier for the prosecutors too. Because the prosecutors may not do anything. I say, right from the outset, that I am avoiding my ability to invoke immunity. You or anyone else wants, he can go there and see it. That's what I said. With regard to the New Democracy amendment, it will come by a Act of Legislative Content before the end of the year the way in which the low VAT will be extended to the five islands. I can't tell her because we're in a negotiation right now. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u526	Happy holidays! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House the 21-12-2018 penal proclamation concerning the former Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Andreas Loverdos. Also, MP Mr. Theodoros Fortsakis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad for family reasons for the period from 27-12-2018 to 6-1-2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u527	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Migration Policy is adjourned: 'Urgent arrangements for the competence of the Ministry of Migration Policy and other provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, seven articles, twenty-seven amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the whole. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. Of course, any question you may put to the Bureau in order to assist you with it. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u528	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u529	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u530	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Migration Policy: ‘Urgent arrangements for the competence of the Ministry of Migration Policy and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u531	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u532	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, before we close the sitting, I would like to wish you a good holiday and a good year. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-21-S1-commons.u533	With the agreement of the House at 17.59 minutes the sitting on Monday, 7 January 2019, on the subject of this House's work, is closed: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions debate.
