ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 ‘Priminal Responsibility of the Ministers’, as applicable, on 23-11-2018: Criminal proceedings concerning the former Minister of National Defence Mr Giannos Papantoniou. (a) the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, (b) The Secretary of State for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Criminal proceedings concerning the former Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr Stavros Kontonis. Criminal proceedings concerning the Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and former Foreign Minister Nikolao Kotzias. Criminal proceedings concerning the Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and former Foreign Minister Nikolao Kotzias. Criminal proceedings concerning former Foreign Minister Nikolao Kotzias. Criminal proceedings concerning the former Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Nikolao Toska. Criminal proceedings concerning the former Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Nikolao Toska. Criminal proceedings concerning the Deputy Minister for Health Mr Paulo Polakis. Criminal proceedings concerning the Minister of National Defence Mr Panagiotis Kammenos. And criminal court order concerning the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsa. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Tourism, the Vice-President of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, the Minister of Home Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Solidarity, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Environment and Energy, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Economy and Environment and Energy, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, have tabled a draft law on 23-11-2018: "Thematic Tourism - Special forms of tourism - Arrangements for modernising the institutional framework in the field of tourism and tourism education - Support for tourism and other provisions for entrepreneurship". This draft law is referred to the competent Standing Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I regret to inform you that a question will be discussed from the twenty planned. The nineteen of them are postponed and postponed for the next sitting: either because of the opportunities of the competent ministers, or because of the Member's imprisonment - in this case, this is a question - and there are three which will not be discussed. Let us begin with the one and only timely question that will be discussed today and then announce those who will not be discussed. This is the first question under number 167/20-11-2018 of the First Cycle of the MP Kozanis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Theophilottos to the Minister of National Defence, on "Improvements to the working regime of the national guards". The Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr Panagiotis King will answer. Mr. Sanctuary, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-26-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, a number of citizens are employed every year - I will call them citizens and workers - who have been designated 'national guards' in the military, but are workers, and are employed in parttime employment, in the care of military installations, warehouses, ammunition, old camps, etc. What's the matter? These workers were given and take a form of compensation for the work they provide for the protection of military installations. Indeed, from 2014 onwards, from previous governments, before our own governments, this compensation has been taxed. While they provide work, while they are taxed for this job, on the other hand, they have no insurance status, they receive no certificate of any kind of service, but they also have a point in their relationship with the OAS, i.e. they appear not to be unemployed, they do not receive an unemployment card and do not participate in the OAED grant programmes. They're on both sides lost. In other words, while they are workers, they seem to be volunteers, and while they are taxed, they have neither insurance nor are entitled to an unemployment card. I think that the Ministry of Defence can and should take all possible due diligence and seriousness to the status of these people. There are plenty of them, especially in our area, in western Macedonia and in Kosani Prefecture, and since from the past there have been many military facilities, there have been ammunition, fuel, etc. A lot of people are employed by keeping watch on the ground. That's the guard, that is, they're going to the night and they're keeping watch on these military facilities. Minister, I think that your Ministry can and should see it with all due diligence and seriousness in improving the working conditions of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-26-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Sanctuary. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-26-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would first like to point out to you that the National Guard is an institution that operates in the constitutional order, always within the structure of the Armed Forces. The national guards offering work in the most sensitive areas of our country give us the tone, but also the thread that connects the local military units to the local communities of the border. The legal status of the National Guard is No.1295/1982. It does not render the employment of the national guardians dependent on work, as the employment provided by them is characterised as a voluntary service, while the remuneration paid to them is paid by law as compensation and not as a wage. Therefore, ethnic guards are not hired and paid on the basis of the Ministry of National Defence's wage bill to be subject to all insurance contributions, but ranked or - otherwise better - they are invited to serve under the Weapons with a very specific mission, which is voluntary. To national guards, if used in regular or special missions under the authorisation provided for in Article 8 of Law 3277/2004 and in accordance with Article 7(2) of Law 1295/1982, a decision of the Minister of National Defence may be given to them on a daily basis in respect of the remuneration of food, clothing and footwear. I would therefore like to point out to you that, for 2018, the use of seven hundred forty-six national guards and as a daily compensation for them, the amount of EUR 15, while the corresponding provision is also in the 2019 budget. These wages, according to labour legislation, do not have the meaning of working days, as there is no dependent employment relationship between the military service and the private national guards, based on the law that I have told you. Therefore, the national guards are not hired and paid in accordance with the provisions of Law 4472/2017, with the new salary paid by the military officials to be subject to relevant insurance contributions, i.e. no insurance relationship exists between the public and the national guards. Regarding the calculation of the service time you refer to the question, regarding the National Guard as military service time is still in force in the day of the day. However, which determines that the time taken for the national guard service is calculated as military service time only if the national guards during their service or because of it have had several kinds of problems or have been captured or died or has been a form of disability in order to create the right to retire. In conclusion, I will say this: further issues relating to the treatment of the institution of the State by other public bodies and services such as the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour, which are chronological, that is to say, dealing with compensation paid and social security issues, they leave our own competences and I cannot say more about your question. But I think there will be an effort on our part to reach agreement. You can understand that recruitment is outside my competence, because we are now talking about recruitment and full-time work. And because the law is for voluntary work, all the rest is done based on this logic and we are on this basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-26-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Sanctuary, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-26-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your reply, that you will see the issue with due sensitivity with the co-legislative ministries and that it is evading your exclusive competence. However, I think that we agree - and that is what you have said in your reply - that a left-wing government cannot accept that the provision of a job is voluntary. The legislative framework is what you say, I know it and I accept it. As a lawman, I've really investigated it. It is absolutely true what you are talking about, but I think it should be changed, because no work should be accepted as a voluntary one. I know these people. Indeed, they are about seven hundred fifty throughout Greece. Almost half of them are in Kozani and West Macedonia. They're just workers, they're people who are long-term unemployed, they lost their jobs, they shut down their shops and they earn a small amount for their survival by keeping watch. Many of them are graduates and yet, to complete their income, to live themselves and their families, they provide these services. Don't be foolish. It's work. Do not hide behind the words of old laws. Yes, these laws apply, but this is the work of Parliament, so as a Member I am making this effort and I would ask you to exhaust your sensitivity and with the appropriate ministries, because I cannot accept that some work is voluntary. These were tricks and tricks - to say it directly - of the past decades, of the old rulers, to have a hostage and trade regime that they wanted, some citizens on the country's border. No, let's say it clearly. They provide their services, provide their work, and after they do so, they must be treated accordingly by our Government. I know that it is not easy to break this, because you mentioned to me the body of the laws in force. It is not easy to break and change this regime, but we can see it and we must look at it with due sensitivity. I would remind you, respectively, of the status of school guards. In the early 2000s, they were hired and were uninsured, and after years our government - you know it well, Mr Minister - in the summer it passed legislation that says that these people, school guards, were not insured, that they were insured, that they had to work and that they had to be insured and that they now came out with a circular of the Ministry and the FBI, which says that they had to be insured and that they had to be provided with the corresponding insurance. We therefore need to look again at these people's employment status. No job is volunteering. These words and concepts belong to other political spaces, not to us. There are no volunteer workers. They are people who especially after the crisis in our areas, try to survive in every way and complement or "build" a small income by providing their services and work in the Armed Forces. This is the beginning of the present process in Parliament, Minister, your answer to my current question, to see from the outset the status of these people, as - I repeat and close with this - there is no voluntary work. We have the job, we have the flag and honor of our left. It's our flag and every worker is a sacred person. So we also need to see the citizens who guard and provide their work in the Army. They're sacred faces, they're workers. I urge the co-responsible ministries to see the status of improving their employment relationship again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-26-S1-commons.u7	It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the "Electronics VENIZELOS" hall and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-one students and students and three teachers from the Biannaios High School of Ioannina. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-26-S1-commons.u8	Thank you. Mr. Goddess, I've explained to you from the outset that there is a particular law. Let's talk about it. I have no objections, and I have said so from the outset, to see it with the co-responsible ministries. This law concerns the National Guard and concerns the relationship and participation of the national guards. He, therefore, includes a series of things in which volunteer services are provided by those taking part in the National Guard. Some of these were also part of what you are talking about and about the seven hundred and thirty-five people, who have the right of course and can have work or do anything else, and that was defined. I do not oppose, but I would like to point out that we need to see it as a whole and the needs of the Armed Forces for further addressing. In this respect I said that we need to look at this with sensitivity at how it can be done in the next period. It concerns the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of National Economy on the issue of recruitment. However, I also want to tell you that all this time, which they offer in this way and with the compensation they receive, they all have full medical and health care. So there's another element that's outside of the task force. Closed to tell you, then, we'll see it again. It is not, however, - and let me not invoke the issue of the Left - as the school guards were. This is a completely different situation and I say again that it was within the framework of the total voluntary participation of the national guards in this part of the services in the Greek Armed Forces. However, let me say - and I close with that, Mr President - that we will also see the possibilities on our part, which outweighs us as a ministry to take a legislative initiative, what can be done for the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-26-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. Let us now read out the list of topical and urgent questions that will not be discussed today. The second question under number 166/19-11-2018, the first-round question of the Athens MP, Mr. Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Security keeps the Ministry of Finance on the procurement of the Public Debt Management Agency (PESH) with the investment bank "Rothschild", will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliaraki, on account of parallel parliamentary tasks. The third, with number 154/13-11-2018, a top-stage question by the Member of the Laconia Parliamentary Party of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Limit situation in the National Health System", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Health Mr. Xanthi, who will be abroad. The fourth under number 171/20-11-2018 topical question of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "For redundant workers of the Associations of Agricultural Cooperatives (ESA) Larissa, Elassonas, Farsalon", it will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos. The fourth under number 173/20-11-2018 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, on the assignment of real estate to a Public Property Company (ETAD) - Fund for the Development of Private Property of the Public Treasury (TADE), will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos. The number 1722/19-9-2018 of the Members of Parliament's circle of references and questions of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Giannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The feasibility and moderation of the transfer to the ultraperipheral land on demand of the 51 public property in the Municipality of Pyrgos" will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos. The second question under number 170/20-11-2018 by MP Larisa of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "It is not possible to complete a programme of newspapers centre of poisoning from 1-1-2019", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Polakis, who is on a government mission in Crete. The fifth question, No. 174/20-11-2018, topical question by MP Aetolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Health, on "Problems in the functioning of the Centre for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (KEFIAP) of Amphisia", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis, who is on a government mission in Crete. The ninth under No. 142/11-2018 topical question by MP Laconia of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Studies of patients from the EKA in intensive treatment units due to a lack of medical staff", will not be discussed due to the impediment of Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Polakis, who is on a government mission in Crete. The tenth under number 153/13-11-2018 topical question of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the Larissa General Hospital, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Polakis, who is on a government mission in Crete. Eleventh question under number 128/5-11-2018 of the second question by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, on the medicine, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis, who is on a government mission in Crete. The fifteenth, under No. 109/29-10-2018, topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Georgios Georgiontas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Complaint against the commander of the hospital Kilkis for the rape of a worker", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Polakis, who is on a government mission in Crete. The third, with number 172/20-11-2018, topical question by the Deputy of Attica of the Communist Party of Greece, Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Finance, on the region of Agios Andreas in Nea Makris Attica and the illegal claims of the Church, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Finance Minister Papanatsiou, which will be outside Athens. The sixth question under number 175/20-11-2018, topical question for the second parliamentary party of the Communist Party of Greece, Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "For the continuing murderous attacks of fascistis against migrant workers in the Municipality of Acharnon and Floridis, it will not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr. Olga Gerovasilis. The seventh question, no. 159/16-11-2018, topical question by the Independent MP, Mr. George Lazarides, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The administration of responsibilities for handling and developing the surveys in the Bulgarians", will not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr. Olga Gerovasilis. The eighth Question No 110/29-10-2018 by Ms. Larissa, New Democracy, Maximoumos Charakopoulos, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "New outbreak of violence by marginal spaces", will not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr. Olga Gerovasilis. The first, with number 165/19-11-2018, topical question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, New Democracy, Konstantinos Karagunis, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Delays in the Integrated Judicial and Criminal Justice Management System (CAD)" will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Member. The twelfth under number 99/24-10-2018 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need for an increase in military service" will not be discussed. The thirteenth, with number 55/11-10-2018, a topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaou Kouzilou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga" will not be discussed. The fourteenth, with number 2/1-10-2018, topical question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Anythema violence was conducted by ELAS in the demonstration of Thessaloniki, which took place against the Prespecies Agreement", will not be discussed. We have been sent a document and the Secretary-General of the Government informs us of the impediments of the Ministers. This concludes the debate on the topical and urgent questions. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-26-S1-commons.u10	(a) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed and (b) discussion and decision on applications for waiver of immunity of Members, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
