ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-01-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the Sanctuation for the start of the Fourth Session will be followed by the Macedonian Archbishop of Athens and all Greeks, Mr. Jeronymou and the accompaniments of this Continental Holy Synod. Mr Anastasios Kourakis, Vice President of the Parliament, will accompany the Makarios Archbishop of Athens and Passos Greece, Mr. Jeronymou and the accompaniments to him of the Continental Holy Synod.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-01-S1-commons.u3	The First Vice President of the Parliament, Mr Anastasios Kourakis, is begged to take the Makarios Archbishop of Athens and all Greece, Mr. Hieronymou and his accompaniments to the Continental Holy Synod. [[Archbishop of Athens and Pasis Greece Mr. Ieronymos and the members of the Continental Sacred Synod leave the Chamber accompanied by First Vice President of the Parliament Mr. Anastasios Kourakis]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, stay in the Chamber for one minute and then we will be interrupted by 12 noon. Ladies and gentlemen, the Fourth Session of Parliament will begin in a modernised room with two important aspects that we will all remember. One is the operation - we have already tried it in the previous period - of a state-of-the-art electronic voting system. I tell you this because the vote on the Quaestors and the Secretaries will take place through this system. So everyone at the little break that's going to take our cards together. Secondly, the full renovation of the roof has been completed for a week - after eighty years - and that is what I think we are seeing in the lighting that goes in. [[A lively applause to the Chamber]] Water won't go in and not just. There were serious stagnation issues. That's it. From there on, we're left to finish all the rest at the IZ's Synod. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-01-S1-commons.u4	The sitting is closed for Monday, October 1, 2018 at 12.00, on the subject of the House's work: the election of Quaestors and Secretaries, in accordance with Rules 6 and 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, in accordance with the special agenda which has been distributed to you.
