ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 15-1-2018 authorisation, the Minutes of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the European Union, of the Commission, of the European Union, of the Commission, of the Council of the European Union, of the Commission, of the Commission, of the Council, of the European Union, of the Commission, of the European Parliament, of the Council, of the Commission, of the European Parliament, of the Council, of the Council, of the Commission, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to wish the Antony and Antony many years! They're also celebrating the Theodosidians today, from what I've been informed. Happy birthday to all the holidaymakers! I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue Thursday 18 January 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 821/15-1-2018 by MP Samos of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Application of proposals, funding path, timetable for work on new works on conservation, restoration and promotion of cultural monuments in Samos Law. Sustainable recovery planning’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiotas, Member of Parliament, on the subject: "Problems in the functioning of the Department of Border Guard (T.A.)" Pyonia’. 3. Or by number 823/15-1-2018, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the PASOK Democratic Association. - Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Let thousands be locked away under the retirement of our fellow citizens, insured by the OAU and the OGA, who are today without income and without pension". 4. The Question No 850/16-1-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “The unacceptable and unprovoked attacks by NATO soldiers to Chania on the evening of November 17, 2017.” B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 847/16-1-2018, a topical question by MP Arta, New Democracy, George Stylios, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Annobria and shortcomings in irrigation infrastructures are dramatically reducing the income of olive growers'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 782/10-1-2018, a topical question by MP Larissa of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: “When will the digital signature be applied?” 3. The question under number 822/15-1-2018 by Independent MEP II of Athens Mr. Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘The Financial Conflict of Road Transport S.A.’. 4. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Savoidakis S.A.”, member of the Board of Directors of the “Constitutional Milk – Food and Drinks Council”. 5. Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “To stop terrorism and persecution of workers at the supermarket “KARYPIDIS”, ensure their right to work and pay their wages.” Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: 'Energy Communities and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 8 January 2018 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Anastasia Gara, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion entitled "Energy Communities and other provisions" of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is a modern tool of production and innovation in the context of a new production model, with particularly political and social characteristics, introducing innovative logic and practices in the production and exploitation of renewable energy sources. It is worth noting that in an environment of international concern for climate change and encouragement to exploit alternative forms of energy, our country has been delayed, despite the wealth of renewable sources it has. At times, from fragmentary interventions by previous governments, opportunities appeared in Renewable Energy Sources, opportunities for quick revenue without product production. Unfortunately, we have seen the effects of environmental burdens and tensions with local communities, gas-industrial business activities and investment projects, which were often paved. In no case, however, did they strengthen the working rate and our national product. For our own policy, energy and the environment are key pillars of growth - fair and long-term growth - and they go through every aspect of social life and investment, productive activities, although for several decades - even today - many political or productive factors were treated as a brake on growth and profitability. For us, then, such legislative initiatives not only strengthen the use of new technologies and innovation, but energy and the environment are part of the formation of a new, different model of productive reconstruction, which is necessary for the country to be relocated to all sectors. And this model has at its core idea, in its DNA, the issues and principles of sustainable development, work, protection and respect for the environment, the production of real product, as well as profitability returning to the subjects of production activity, unlike a bankrupt model that shows at the expense of the work and quality of life of citizens. At the same time, the concepts of the circular economy, collectiveness, participation and cooperation play a role in the new productive model, with multiple benefits in the local communities involved. Likewise, the role of local government and local communities is becoming the capital in the new model introduced, supporting the locality and decentralisation of production and use of resources, while introducing the concept of democracy into the production process. Besides, the involvement of local societies changes the economic, productive and social climate, creating social conditions for sustainable development. And citizens' participation is necessary at the time when our country is turning a page, highlighting chains of production, where the profit will return in multiple forms to those producing it. It is noted that up to 2015 over two thousand energy communities have been registered in the European area. However, Greece is the first country in Europe to establish a full and transparent framework for the operation of energy communities. So the use of energy resources and the transition to clean energy forms are a necessity which, at the same time, creates an important opportunity window for the democratisation of energy planning and the creation of sustainable jobs in the energy sector. Ladies and gentlemen, the main axes governing this draft law, as well as our overall strategy in the field of the use of energy resources, are governance, democratisation, strengthening of locality, strengthening synergies and partnerships. It is noted that in this context, ensuring equality between stakeholders is crucial for everyone to have an equal right to decision-making within the energy community. It is precisely for this reason that each member has a single vote, irrespective of the cooperative share it holds. The benefit that can be obtained through these partnerships is not limited to the benefit of the parties, but extends to the local society by creating sustainable jobs. The key objectives of the bill are to support innovation, improve energy efficiency, enhance the penetration of renewable energy and self-production, increase the local acceptance of RES projects, reduce energy costs for households and small and medium-sized enterprises, strengthen the solidarity and social economy. Particularly important is that this draft law takes particular account of the country's very basic characteristics, the intense islandity. Energy insularity occurs mainly through the absence of interconnection with the mainland system and the autonomy of the operation of power generation systems. These islands have not been interconnected so far with the mainland electricity system due mainly to technical and technological difficulties, political devaluation, but also to economic difficulties, as the connections are large capital-intensive projects. In most islands the cost of meeting energy needs receives very high prices. At the same time, however, a common feature of most of the Aegean islands is the great wind and solar potential, while in some islands there is a remarkable geothermal potential. It is politically willing that these islands should be detached from fossil fuels, but also contribute to achieving national objectives through the implementation of new RES power plants. For these reasons, this draft law introduces specific provisions and privileges in respect of energy communities based on islands, mainly with a small population. What, though, are energy communities? The standard definition as energy communities means urban cooperatives for the sole purpose of promoting the social and solidarity economy and innovation in the energy sector, addressing energy poverty and producing energy sustainability, producing, storage and self-consumption, distribution and supply of energy, enhancing energy self-sufficiency and security in island cities, as well as improving energy efficiency at the local and regional level. In particular, energy communities have the right to carry out the following activities: Production, storage, self-consumption or sale of electricity from RES and STHY, production, distribution and supply of thermal or cooling energy, supply of electricity or natural gas to final customers, management of raw material for the production of energy from biomass or bioliquids or biogas, supply for members of energy products, electric vehicles and alternative fuel vehicles, development, management and exploitation of alternative fuel infrastructures and alternative fuel vehicles, installation and operation of water desulphurisation plants using an RES in the region that is the head office of the energy community. They may also: Management or participation in programmes financed by national or European Union resources, advice on the management or participation of its members in programmes financed, energy services, information, education and awareness at local and regional level on energy sustainability issues and, in particular, actions to address energy poverty to vulnerable consumers or citizens below the limits of poverty, regardless of whether they are members of the energy community. For example: providing energy or offsetting energy, energy residential upgrades or other measures that reduce energy consumption in the homes of these citizens. It is expected that the effect of energy communities will be to reduce the energy costs of small and medium-sized enterprises, to enable individuals to drastically limit their electricity accounts, to further penetrate RES, and to use the available energy market tools such as net metering, viral net metering and smart metering. Moving on to the more detailed analysis of the provisions, the energy community is, as we said, defined as an urban cooperative to promote the social and solidarity of the economy and innovation in the energy sector. It is defined by Law 1667/1989 for urban cooperatives as the legal framework that complements the energy communities. Subsequently, the persons and bodies entitled to participate in the energy communities, the minimum number of members of a community, and the conditions to be met by those members, shall be specified. In particular, in energy communities, the right to participate has natural persons with full legal capacity, legal persons governed by public law or private legal persons, ATOs 1 grade of the same regional unit as the seat of the energy community, such undertakings and ATOs II degree, within the administrative limits of which the seat of the energy community is situated. The minimum number of members of the energy communities is five where members are legal persons under public law other than LGBs or legal persons under private law or natural persons, two in the case of LGDs of grades of island areas with a population of less than three thousand inhabitants, according to the last census, three in the case of which members are legal persons governed by public or private law or of natural persons, of which at least two are LGDs. Identity criteria are also set for at least 51% of members, as these should be related to the place where the energy community is located, so that local communities will be the ones that will end up enjoying the benefits. It is also noted that legal persons governed by public law and OTAs, grades 1 and 2, can participate in more than one energy community. The element of the locality and participation of local societies in the process of producing and managing energy resources is a capital for this legislative initiative, and that is why the element of locality is strong. Particularly important is the provision of financial incentives for energy communities, demonstrating in practice the political direction of supporting cooperative schemes, as is the case with the COMPAs, producer groups or rural cooperatives. The support measures relate in particular to the development of RES power plants, as the development of indigenous RES potential is a central national energy target, as it contributes to the diversification of the national energy mix, the security of energy supply and the response to climate change, while at the same time strengthening the development of the national economy. The measures provided for include, inter alia: Integrating financial instruments from national or European resources, exemption from the annual energy licence fee, reduced guarantee letters and much more. As far as cooperatives are concerned, for all energy communities, each member can hold one or more voluntary cooperative shares in addition to the compulsory cooperative share. However, in order to avoid concentration trends, a 20% ceiling has been set on the co-operative capital that each member can acquire, with the sole exception of the ATTs, who can participate in the cooperative capital with a maximum of 40%, and with a maximum of 50% participation for ATT I grades of island regions with a population of less than three thousand inhabitants. It is foreseen that a transfer of a share in a member or a third party will only be made upon consent of the Board of Directors. Clearly, the draft law includes in detail the way in which energy communities are formed, the type and the minimum content of their statutes and issues of solution, merger or conversion are regulated as appropriate. However, I would like to stress that energy communities are not of a speculative nature, as the distribution of profits remains in the community in the form of a reserve and the general assembly defines how they are allocated. In the unique cases where the reserves are distributed to the members of the community, the following cases should be met: members of the community should be at least fifteen or ten for energy communities based in an island municipality, and if 50% plus one of them are natural persons. The provisions of Article 10 provide for the possibility of setting up cooperative associations which may form a federation. At least five energy communities based in the same region may establish an association of energy cooperatives in order to coordinate and promote their activities, while associations of energy cooperatives throughout the country may furthermore establish a federation of energy cooperatives to coordinate and better represent the energy cooperative movement of the country. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention that energy communities have a wide range of application from domestic use to owners or tenants of a building, for example, to business use and action, proving that this legislative initiative is accessible to all citizens and concerns everyday uses and multiple areas of the activity of local communities. It also shows the huge scope of the proposed law, the direct involvement of citizens, businesses, municipalities in transparent, participatory and democratic forms. The creation of new jobs - which is important - is the purchase of the construction industry, the employment of scientists and the use of new technologies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just give me one more minute, please, Mr President. Finally, our aim is to design and strengthen a different production model in our country. From the wide-ranging debate with the stakeholders in the House, but also with local actors and citizens, we are aware of the great interest in the establishment of energy communities and the benefits they may have in local communities in the context of environmental protection, development of technology and energy saving. Ladies and gentlemen, after about three difficult years of governance, with several obstacles, triples and doubts, SYRIZA has succeeded not only in catching the goals set, in order to get the country out of the crisis and the memorandum regime, but also in taking initiatives to reduce unemployment rates, protect and strengthen the weakest strata of society. It worked in a direction of adjusting financial instruments, cutting down the waste and the hatreds of previous governments, reducing bureaucracy and facilitating the process of activity throughout the state. At the same time, however, - and it is perhaps the most important - in a very short time, with collective work, we have managed to lay foundations and create tools for a modern European secure investment environment. The suspension of forest maps, the Land register, the Quarterly Code, the establishment of a company in one day, as well as the law on energy communities not only cover the gaps of the past, but at the same time give us impetus forward, at a time with modern thought, environmental, collaborative, creative. This draft law represents a model, but also an original institutional framework throughout Europe, with various benefits for citizens, society, the economy and, above all, the environment. That is why I welcome it and urge everyone to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gara. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that a letter has been sent from the formerly Independent MEP Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsi, which reads as follows: 'Mr. Voutsi, with this I wish to inform you that I have been associated with the Group of the Democratic Integration Parliament today and I would ask that it be recognised at the next plenary session'. I am also recognizing the letter from the President of the Group of the Democratic Integration Parliament, Mr. Gennimatas, to Mr. Voutsis: "Mr. President, I would like to inform you that MP B' Peripheral of Athens Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras is now part of the Group of the Democratic Integration as a collaborative MEP". The letters referred to above will be lodged for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u5	The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a draft law, which, and during the committee, we have told you, first of all, that it is his logic and his purpose. We hope, however, that we have seen that last night you have tabled a series of amendments, not to be filled again with a bag of amendments, which we will not be able to vote in favour and thus to blur a little what this bill is trying to do. Before I begin, however, and I come into the substance of the bill, I say that you owe us an answer, Minister. I told you and Friday at my place in the House, and you probably didn't hear it or understand it, or did you not understand it? According to information and a statement by PPC itself has offered the public via electronic media, it is going to buy out an energy company in Skopje. It is a company that basically only provides electricity to seventy large consumers, mainly industrialists. It is a company which has a purely commercial activity. It doesn't have any productive activity. The main competitive advantage of this company at the moment - a company that has started its activities since 2014 in its neighbouring country - as mentioned, is that it provides electricity at cheaper than the existing electricity prices. And because, Minister, you know very well - he says a traditional trade saying in Greece, which is the country where the trade has grown from ancient times - that 'because the cheaper has always been cheaper', what I would like you to say today is this very specific: has there been some sort of economic study, some business plan from a reliable company, from a reliable business club specialising in acquisitions of companies and companies, which has calculated whether this strategic decision of PPC is in the right direction, if it has calculated what the reasonable price will be, if there is a price, which PPC should pay to buy this company? These questions are very important when we talk about a public electricity company in PPC. When we talk about a company, in which, as I told you, you gave hundreds of millions of euros - around 400 million euros - because otherwise she could not pay her suppliers, even her salaries in 2018. When this company finds itself having a quarter of the stock exchange value that it had three years ago and when you have required it, you have committed it - I will submit the relevant material from the Governing Council for Economic Policy - to reduce by 2020 some 40% its turnover. PPC's retail market share should be in 2019 49.24% you say. I'm filing it. [[At this point the Member, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And in order to achieve this, you should in 2018 sell in energy auctions 18% of the total energy absorbed in Greece and 22% in 2019. I am making to the practical commitments you have made as SYRIZA - ANEL Government towards the institutions that concern PPC and which are mathematically leading to the bankruptcy of PPC. So, yes, PPC at the moment has an urgent need to expand your business by extroverting, so that it can - if it can - resist what you have imposed on it, namely collapse and total bankruptcy. On the other hand, however, we see it expressing its intention to acquire a purely commercial company with seventy customers, which may have them tomorrow, may not have them. Let me say that when PPC in 2007 claimed to buy a power plant, the "TEC Negotino" in Skopje, and although it had then deposited the highest price, it was not, unfortunately, chosen by the neighbouring government as a contractor and thus failed to make this acquisition, a purchase of a production unit, which we see has some benefits. Of course, I am not talking about the other things because we have entered a national negotiation. It is an issue that we are not discussing at present. However, this strategic option itself should answer us today if it has been assessed, and if it has been analysed by PPC with responsibility and in cooperation with consultants, who are experienced in the acquisition of such companies. The second thing I want to say to you is something that you have left in the intervening atmosphere of the Greek society and that concerns the beneficiaries of the social invoice. We heard during the celebration announcements on upcoming ministerial decisions that will change the criteria with which beneficiaries will be included in the social invoice, and even, said these announcements...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u7	Is it, in principle, what we are talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u8	Your Honor, I must tell you that here we are discussing everything and we cannot let...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u9	Please don't have a dialogue. Let the rapporteur finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u10	You didn't hear what I said probably and you don't want to understand. What I told you is that we have a bill to which, first of all, we agree, but, unfortunately, the Minister brings amendments which are blurred...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u11	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u12	Please don't open a dialogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u13	You do not like to hear the truth and you are finally trying to forbid even this possibility of the speech of the Vice-Presidents, but unfortunately, what I want to say will be heard and heard to hear from the people. Because mockery and stifling must at some point end, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA and ANEL. You have therefore promised that beneficiaries of the social dividend, but also beneficiaries of the social income of solidarity, will be able to enjoy discounts through the social invoice. We're waiting for the ministerial decision. We expect you to tell us what this cost will be and tell us how this cost will be borne if there is an extra cost than what the other Greeks already pay. I enter the third point which I would like to mention and concerns an amendment which is really very interesting. You are supposed to give a solution to a problem with areas in which the largest proportion of electricity from lignite is produced. We are talking about the prefectures of western Macedonia, but also of Arcadia in Megalopolis. Try, you're supposed to help the citizens. You are doing this in a way that, in our view, is unfortunately the oldest, I would say, the old-fashioned logics that the Greek people are paying today and paying for at a heaviest price. What do you say there? That they will have a discount of about 30% on PPC's invoice and this will cost around 17.5 million euros a year, according to the report from the General Accounting Office of the State. You say, however, in this amendment that you are bringing: by joint decision of the Ministers for Economic and Energy, the exact amount of aid is fixed, the procedure, the method and the timing of granting it, the liquidation time, any criteria for granting the aid, any maximum and minimum consumption thresholds, is set, etc. In short, you are bringing an amendment where in the first paragraph you say that you are giving aid to household consumers and in the second paragraph you have such general provisions that are to be decided by ministerial decision the next day, which we do not know who will be entitled, if they are entitled to a discount, for how long, if it is for a year, if it is for all years from now. That is to say, it is really an attempt to approach a serious issue which concerns the inhabitants of those regions and without giving them any solutions. Why don't you give them solutions and why are you not interested in the substance? I also have the decision here of the Governing Council for Economic Policy, ladies and gentlemen. What's he saying here? With regard to the internal gas market by 2022, an extension of the existing natural gas distribution networks is planned in Attica, Thessaly, Thessaloniki, Central Greece, Central Macedonia, East Macedonia and Thrace, but no extension of the natural gas network is planned in western Macedonia, which, as you know, there is an even greater need for energy consumption by households due to the weather conditions, the heavy winter prevailing in these areas. Mr President, I am presenting this for the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Instead of giving money to expand gas distribution networks in western Macedonia, you from the Council of Ministers of Government Economic Policy have excluded Western Macedonia. You had to go ahead with a subsidy for the energy upgrade of these people's homes, which would lead them to less energy consumption and thus less electricity bills. In this way you could also achieve a development in the area, because they will work aluminums, builders, people and workshops through the building. In this way we could achieve genuinely sustainable development, an improvement in the energy efficiency of buildings and smaller electricity bills. Instead, you come and say: "We put 17 million euros, which we do not know if it will be 17 million euros, because we expect all the ministerial decisions you describe. In fact, we don't know how much time you're gonna give them. So please tell us today, first of all, who will be the beneficiaries of the final - and not vaguely - and for how long this financial aid you say will be. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we must end the stumbling of the Greek people by a government which is heading out and which has served in an orgy of rhetorical and bad legislation, which unfortunately have no viability. The latter also concerns the elements of the implementation of the budget which show that to achieve this supposed surplus you have deprived from the market, from growth, of EUR 800 million in 2017 and EUR 600 million in 2016, i.e. about EUR 1.3 billion, which is European Union money. I am referring to the Public Investment Programme. The result is, of course, to be a demand for growth in 2018, Minister, because this money is now missing from the market, lacking from projects and infrastructure. Here, of course, this governmental project is also falling apart and a novel that growth is supposed to come. As far as the bill is concerned, we will of course have the opportunity to analyse the articles in our second language. I told you, Minister, that this bill is trying to solve a particular problem. What's that? This is the creation of oligopolistic and monopolistic structures in the area of Renewable Energy Sources. We are telling you from the outset that we agree with the logic and philosophy of cooperative schemes, so that they can invest and have the necessary scale to compete with the investment of the Renewable Energy Sources. Then, in my dentistry, I will analyse specific issues, which I believe we can discuss and find a common place to resolve. Please respond specifically to the issues I mentioned, namely the intention of PPC to buy EDS in neighbouring Skopje, the clarifications regarding the amendment for the inhabitants of western Macedonia and the Municipality of Megalopolis, but of course what you intend to do and how you intend to rescue, to support PPC from total bankruptcy and destruction, since you have committed it to reducing its turnover by 50% in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much Mr. Screka. I would ask the rapporteur very much from the Democratic Assent, Mr Manatis, to take the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to discuss a bill which carries a positive European experience into Greek law. But, at the same time, this bill is also the top of a triangle of energy hypocrisy, as I shall mention below. This debate comes two days after the vote on the plan for the third evaluation of the Tsipra Memorandum. Minister, you have disproved every prediction of your government's survival, because you have quite simply disproved every word you have said in opposition. The incredible cysts of the SYRIZA and ANEL government show that there is no moral barrier to keep the warm chair of power. It turns out that you had no plan at all, you did nothing to negotiate, and instead of dancing in the bass, the lenders and the markets, they dance you in the bass. In fact, at the beginning of the year, the Prime Minister tried to convince us that in the summer of 2018 there will be a clear exit from the memoranda. Except, unfortunately, the clean exit is a naked exit from the Tsipra Memorandum and a clear entrance to the fourth memorandum, with which you are bound by the country by 2060. Mr. Tsipras began as a so-called left, as a so-called radical leftist, and now the most persuasive instrument in the court of lenders has come to light. But society has understood it. Society has realised that the problem of the country is not the economy, but it is the government that is making it easier to spread poverty everywhere, because it is making it easier to give benefits. You are doing absolutely nothing to get the development machines ahead, a development that can become a reality. Ladies and gentlemen, have you seen the figures from the State General Accounting Office yesterday? Did you understand that you voted in favour of the bills brought by the government, where this overcrowd came from? The General Accounting Office of the State demonstrates that the surplus has resulted from the EUR 800 million smaller Public Investment Programme, EUR 800 million less public development expenditure for the country and EUR 950 million less social expenditure. This is the achievement of the government. But, that's how you don't have to be Kammen's partner to win a surplus. You can do it yourself. Unfortunately, Mr President-in-Office, you only care about taxes. For all the rest you don't give a damn. You're a collector's government. The day before yesterday, a neighboring country, Romania, gave you an example. For small and medium-sized enterprises that have a turnover of up to EUR 100,000 per year, Romania puts a tax of 3% and expects an increase in its revenue, because tax infringements will be zeroed. Do these hear the ears of the government, or do they obey only what the lenders command? Ladies and gentlemen, what is the bill we are debating today? Could it be something extremely simple? It is the creation of urban cooperatives, which will have energy initiatives as their activity. It is based on the law on urban cooperatives. But is that something innovative? Unfortunately, here begins the first hypocrisy of the government's energy hypocrisy triangle that I mentioned. Minister, any piece of legislation is not accompanied by an operational plan - a timetable, that is, money - supporting the legislature is an empty shirt. And what you're legislating now is an empty shirt. You want the proof, colleagues and colleagues of SYRIZA? Do you know how many such cooperatives, like those we are called today to legislate, exist in the country? There are four hundred sixteen rural cooperatives, called the local organizations of land improvements, to which they are activated, registered as members, three hundred thousand Greek farmers. What we are today enacting as urban cooperative has existed for many years in the agricultural sector in the form of TWGs. And what did we do in 2014, when you voted against it? In 2014, for the first time, we applied the philosophy of energy democracy, giving priority to local bodies of land improvements in each agricultural clock used by farmers to water from irrigation networks to install renewable energy plants up to 500KW. Every clock. You voted against it. It's okay. However, in the same logic and in cooperation with the Ministry of Rural Development, there was the prediction that we should finance the local bodies of emergency improvements in order to implement this operation. Does it make sense? It makes perfect sense. Minister, ask PPC how much money PPC owes PPC the country's four hundred sixteen TWGs. I'm sure it's over 40 million euros. Can this debt be zeroed without the farmer being charged, nor can the state budget? Yes, it can be zeroed. Did you do anything for three years when the legislation was in force? No, you didn't do anything. It makes sense, is it allowed? Yes, it is allowed, because the common agricultural policy allows structural measures. And this aid to the energy costs of Greek farmers, in order to produce quality agricultural products, allows for a 50% reduction in cultivation costs. And it could be real today. You are also concerned about what has already been legislated for three years. It was also denounced by the representatives of the TWG, who called on them to do so in committee. Take initiatives, because the legislature, when you don't have a moment to think about how to implement the legislature, is just exposing the government. There is the second peak of the triangle of energy hypocrisy. I said to the committee that I counted twelve times as announced by Prime Minister Tsipras and by the Minister of Energy in the case of the relaunching of the program "I'll save myself at home". Yesterday I heard another announcement that we're going to start, so we're going to the thirteenth - jushuz - an announcement that we're going to start the next few days. What is "Security Finance"? What was it? Within three years, 500m euros fell on the building market. In a dead market, we gave breath and breath. Twelve thousand jobs were created in the building. Parts, plasters, aluminums, jams, industries that manufacture solar water heaters, people and businesses that manufacture tents. We gave the possibility to fifty thousand Greek households - poor Greek households - mainly in northern Greece, to reduce their energy costs by EUR 600 to 700 per year for the next fifty years. This programme was characterized by the European Union as the second best. So, what did you have in front of you when you've been in charge for three years? You had a very good experience, implemented in the country, you had a provision for 600 million continuation of the programme and you had thirty thousand applications from Greek citizens, who had already passed bureaucracy from the banks and expected you to implement a programme that was running. With the same logic, the logic of phasing, the logic of ongoing projects, as was done in all other ESDP programmes. And what did you do? Three years energy nirvana, no activity. Minister, because we in the Democratic Alliance are always creative, I am tabling this motion for a resolution on the Minutes - and I ask you to see it - so that in addition to the 'I'm saving myself' programme, at any time, you can proceed to a new action. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To discuss with your favourite lenders to give tax exemption to any poor household or medium-income household that will invest energy in the first home energy upgrade. Ladies and gentlemen, look, we have seven million buildings and apartments in Greece. If we allow about 300 million - half of what the previous ones have said - the government has anticipated the new 'Security' when it begins. But if we allow the average Greek household, through tax exemption, to invest up to EUR 15 000, we will have two huge benefits. Firstly, homes and other fifty or 100 thousand poor households will be energy-intensively upgraded. Secondly, some of the money will come out of the mattresses, which we know very well that they started up to 35 billion when the capital controls took place. Now we don't know how much it is. But surely they can invest in the first homes of Greek households. We in the proposal that we tabled we asked for IOBE and our scientific partners to make us a script. If there is tax exemption - no subsidy, only tax exemption - for the first house in fifty thousand households, the loss of the Greek State's income, of course, due to the tax exemption, will be EUR 90 million. However, in order for these tax exemptions to exist, invoices will be issued by those who make the energy upgrades. In addition 23% VAT will be collected. Do you know how much the study says will be collected by the Greek State in this realistic scenario of fifty thousand houses? Loss of 80 million, collection of 190 million. You'll make more. Ask for it, fight it, claim it. It is for the benefit of the national economy. It will create over twenty thousand jobs in the Greek building. The third peak of the government's energy hypocrisy triangle is heard by the name “PPC”. Grounds for listing: Operational Programme of the GOI, 20 December 2017. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Two days ago, he took the bogeyman of the Governing Council for Economic Policy. So, apart from a proposal from the HICP, it's a Greek government decision. What's inside about PPC? PPC, you know, is this company that you received in three times the stock exchange from today and you made it the public owe it over 3.5 billion of unpaid bills. It was, however, your political toteme. Mr Tsipras said: "Don't think about harming PPC, because we're going to a referendum and whey and alas". Yes, sir. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let us see what Mr Tsipras and his government have done a few days ago, what is now with the bogeyman in the government's decision paper. In the polynomial plan for the third rating 34% of PPC left the Public Participation Company and went directly to the lenders' "ma" on the board of supreme colonialism. There is no longer the "liquorists" that we supposedly incorporate 34% of PPC, which belongs to the Greek State, even to the Public Participation Company, because it was abolished. How much is left to 51% of the Greek public? There's another 17% left. Who's got it? The HICP. What does the TIAD say now? That "within 2018 I will have a consultant and decide how to sell the remaining 17%". Thirty-four percent direct to the superstition for sale and the remaining 17% to the TDI to leave this year. Is that enough of these disasters? No, it is not enough because in the same decision of the GOI, you say: "The four lignite units, two Megalopolis and two of Florinna will be sold." You know, that is not what you now say 'walker'. You are also very good'minds'. You're baptizing. You call it "disinvestment". The sale of lignite plants and mines by the SYRIZA Government is called ‘investment’. The sales of the four lignite plants will therefore proceed. Is that enough? No, it's not enough. You have committed that what remains of what remains will be reduced by less than 50% PPC's share in the retail market. This is for those of well-meaning citizens who still have delusions that SYRIZA has even a moral barrier. Unfortunately, everything on the altar of service to stay in the chair. Because yesterday, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Maniotis, you've reached eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u17	I shall conclude, Mr President. We have also seen something else, a positive initiative by the government. You will be subsidised with five million euros...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u18	Is that bad?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u19	Yeah, it's good, except that's a bad copy before. You will be subsidising with five million euros the replacement of oil in natural gas buildings. Five million. Do you know that in 2014 we gave fifteen million, three times, under much worse budgetary conditions, to replace these units in thirty thousand households?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u20	So the budgetary conditions are better now...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u21	Ten million for Attica and five million for Thessaloniki and Thessaly. Is that enough? No, it wasn't enough. You should show your own party patriotism again. I am tabling what was revealed yesterday in what newspapers you have given to publish this EUR 5 million action. ‘New PAGE’, ‘NATION’, ‘The Official Journal of the Authors’, ‘DOCUMENTO’ and ‘HAY’. There are obviously no more Greek newspapers. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the outset, this bill in principle is a positive development following European initiatives. However, all of these are empty words when, firstly, they are not part of a comprehensive, national, energy strategy and, secondly, they are not accompanied by a specific operational plan for their implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Maniotis. I would ask my colleague, Mr Panagiotis Eliopoulos, to speak for 15 minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. This draft law deals with the major issue of energy, one of the most neural sectors in our country's economy, which, unfortunately, is a long way from what is called a national economy and should be our goal. A few weeks have not passed since the debate on another Memorandum of State Budget and, of course, not last, since Greece will be under the committee regime for decades more, so under the memorandum regime and the full allocation of its national sovereignty. And this bill, which, as you say, introduces a new institution, the institution of the energy communities, in order to promote - as you say here - the social and solidarity economy and innovation in the energy sector, the treatment of energy poverty, the promotion of energy sustainability, the strengthening of energy self-sufficiency and security in island municipalities, etc., as you are well-determined in the explanatory statement. Through this institution local communities and also citizens are given the opportunity to develop investment ventures in the field of electricity production, storage, distribution and supply from renewable energy sources. Energy communities will be mainly active in the RES, the cogeneration of high-efficiency electricity and heat, the rational use of energy, energy efficiency, sustainable transport, demand management and production, distribution and supply of energy at local and regional level. As stated explicitly, the aim, on the basis of the European Directive, is to involve RES in the energy mix by 20% by 2020, as a rehabilitation step from the exact imports of fossil non-renewable sources. Greece is currently around 17% to 18%. Immediately we have to stand by the fact that our country does not import certain fossil fuels but, on the contrary, has them in abundance, such as lignite, hydrocarbons, etc., and at the same time also has an unstable and unexploited potential from renewable energy sources. Let us note here that new lignite plants, which you are selling, have high-tech installations with very low environmental impacts, so there is no question of a great environmental impact from these modern plants. Therefore, imposing directives on the European Commission is probably more reminiscent of the relationship of a boss to a slave than an independent and responsible energy policy, which Greece could adopt immediately. According to the bill, there will therefore also be specific economic incentives and measures to support the energy communities under way, to address, you say, climate change and energy self-sufficiency. Incentives and measures include, among other things: a fixed tax rate for five years, integration into development law, funding from programmes financed by national and Community resources, licensing incentives, exemption from retaining the right to hold a licence for the production of electricity, as a matter of priority consideration by RAE, reduced by 50% guarantee letters, smaller cooperative capital required and others. So you say that you want to exploit the solar, wind and geothermal potential of these regions. But does the Greek citizen not pay fees for renewable energy through PPC's accounts? Where, finally, are these funds going, Minister, since you were calling before the elections about the privatisations, which you are now applying? Why do you not go to nationalisation of PPC and take advantage of the funds for RES in cooperation with the TAs so that the energy sector remains in national hands? Energy profits - renewable and non-renewable - are huge. Otherwise, it would not be possible for the - in introductory words, of course - 'national contractors' and the various international energy colloquiums in this sector. We see all over Greece growing, for example, wind parks of private interest. They know something about getting involved. Therefore, instead of "solidifying" the once state PPC and breaking it into a thousand pieces and selling it at the end, it should play as a state and nationalised body, as the property of the Greek people the important role of energy development and rehabilitation of our country in both renewable and non-renewable energy sources, with a key focus on respect for and protection of the environmental balance. In the energy communities you want to create, natural persons, local authorities, grades I and 2 and various private or public legal entities may participate, provided that they relate to the place where the energy community is active by at least 50%. Natural persons - members must have full or fine ownership or immovable property within the regional unit of the seat of the energy community or be citizens of the municipality of the regional unit. Legal persons – members must have their seat within the regional unit of the seat of the energy community. With these costs, however, there are no safety barriers to the non-infiltration of large energy pools in the energy communities, because the only easy thing to do is to acquire real estate in each region through citizens living in each region. So you are creating urban cooperatives, which, as you say, are basically non-profit-making, having as their basic principle the diffusion of the benefit to the members of the energy community and the local society. However, they may exceptionally also have a speculative character, provided that the members of the energy community exceed fifteen in numbers and the majority of these members are natural persons. In short, you are rightly opening doors to private, so-called investors, commonly 'national contractors' and international energy giants, and thus releasing and selling another neo-algal sector that could contribute - under state control - to the energy self-sufficiency of our country and to the development of our national economy. The other provisions are now added to the construction of technical projects that are not subject to terms and restrictions of urban planning provisions, small capacity RES facilities up to 60KW. If this is only about self-consumption, then it is something positive. You also add the concept of thermal energy to the energy market. This is obviously about the multitude of geothermal fields that our country has and is largely untapped, but with this bill you are also selling this energy sector out. Generally on the bill, while, in principle, the idea of energy decentralisation is correct, it is attempted in terms of a liberal economy and free competition, opening the doors to large investors and equipment manufacturing companies, rather than promoting the development of domestic know-how in order to create thousands of jobs. Apart from a few provisions that at first sight seem reasonable, such as the provisions on self-consumption of farmers and economicly vulnerable citizens below the poverty line, we consider that this draft law is part of the framework of institutional waste disposal orders that you have received for all the neural sectors of our country's economy, such as energy. We consider this bill to be ash in the eyes of the Greek citizen. It moves towards further liberalisation of the energy market in combination with the full selling of PPC. We therefore regard this as a disgraceful requirement of the European Union and of creditors, rather than drawing up and promoting a national energy policy plan combining the development of indigenous know-how of the EIA by creating local, under state supervision and control, energy production units, as well as the self-consumption that is mentioned with all the benefits that it will actually have in local communities. An important factor not developed in this bill is that energy production should be combined with comparable energy savings. We as Golden Dawn will continue to resist this prospect of abundance as a country, and we will recall once again that the energy sector must be fully nationalised. In particular, the electricity and the provision of the basic energy needs of our people, of course, and should not be a commercial product, but a social and at the same time a national good. In conclusion, I would like to say once again that you do not have the slightest right in this Chamber, none of you, to sell the term 'Macedonia'. Already yesterday, this suspect, supposedly negotiator, ratted you. He did good and snitched you! It says “for so many years now you have been using the term “Macedonia” in “FYROM””. So what does that mean? That the term 'Macedonia' will of course continue to exist in the name we are negotiating. You don't own Macedonia. Macedonia is one, it's Greek. No vote in any parliament anywhere in the world can betray the name "Macedonia" and sell it. Macedonia is one, it's Greek. We will all participate in the rally on Sunday January 21st, without party flags. All Greeks will bronze: "Macedonia is Greek" and "Down with Macedonia". It's not yours. It belongs to Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much. Please very much ask the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Athanasio Bardalis to take the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, the government has been making a great effort in recent years to create expectations, false hopes that 2018 will be a landmark year, that we are approaching the end of the memorials, injustice and economic disaster. In this general effort to create expectations is also part of this draft law, in a sense, for the energy communities. It is trying, in other words, to create expectations that at the time of full liberalisation of the energy market with such management terminology, people's families, along with business groups active in renewable energy sources, can benefit. And what we have not heard here today and during the debate in the committee. We have heard about a new productive model, energy democracy, locality, participation. I'd say, thick words to hide a reality. A reality that has to do with the implementation of a part of the European Union's single energy policy. A reality that further promotes the liberalisation of the energy market and, in particular, the part that strengthens the share of renewable energy in the overall energy mix. That's what you do with this bill. That's the truth. That is to say, promote further the liberalisation of the energy market. From this point of view, it does not give us any impression that in this attempt to create false expectations, both the New Democracy and the PASOK - the Democratic Reconciliation, i.e. - and the other parties of counter-population are involved. This is for the simple reason that you all drink water in the name of the European Union's single energy policy. In the name of further liberalisation of the energy market. This is the common basis of all parties, whether government or opposition. You're planning on it and moving. There can be no expectation, therefore, for the peoples of Europe than for the further liberalisation of the energy market and it is not really true that energy poverty will be dealt with as well. There must be no expectation of the people since the so-called memorial era, which is supposed to bring about just growth. And that's because the people themselves have bitter experience, they have experience. For example, in the specific issue we are discussing, liberalisation of the energy market has started for some years now. You will remember - I imagine - what both the New Democracy and the PASOK were saying at the time. We were assured that capitalist investment, which would come with market liberalisation, would bring growth to the benefit of all, both for the workers and the people and for the investors who would invest, and that competition between business groups would benefit the people and, indeed, create thousands of well-paid jobs. They also claimed that green growth, a shift in renewable energy sources, will lead to environmental protection and an improvement in the lives of all of us. What did life prove? That the dramatic reduction in lignite production, the redundancies of the workers we had in PPC, the contractors who entered, the increase in unemployment, the unpaid workers are genuine children of this very capitalist development, the liberalisation of energy. And that's real. One cannot question them. Indeed, there has been a growth in productivity, as of course there has also been a growth in the profits of business groups. This development, however, was based on the sacrifices of workers and people's strata. At the same time, when we had growth in productivity and profits, electricity prices increased by 48.5%, while so-called green charges and the related government taxes that entered households increased by 147%. Now, why would there be reductions with further liberalisation of the energy market? Why now is SYRIZA promoting her? The same happened to all - but to all - the countries of the European Union where the liberalisation of the energy market has gone. Countries, for example, such as Denmark, Sweden, Ireland and Britain, have experienced increases in domestic consumption tariffs of more than 100%. All of you, government, New Democracy, who have created and exacerbated the problem of energy poverty, now, without shame, say that with this bill you will treat it, when today the total debt to PPC reaches 1.65 billion and concerns the greatest debts of people's households. According to EUROSTAT, published about a month ago, three out of ten Greeks are unable to access heating systems. Here we have arrived, increased energy production - take care - and at the same time, people's families do not have electricity and heating. Unfortunately, this is where we are. PPC’s workers in 1994 had more than thirty - six thousand relationships, even full - time and stable work, and today half of them were left, about eighteen thousand. And those who have experienced continuous annual reductions in their wages of more than 750 million euros, young people are hired with 'black', flexible, working relationships, with fewer contracts - eight months in particular - to subcontractors who have entered, with the imposition of individual contracts. It could be said by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL that this was done in PASOK and New Democracy governments. However, the responsibility of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL in this matter is separate, because even before - not only now - as opposition has systematically produced the illusion that there can be polemic management in this context of liberalisation of the energy market. Because the anti-grassroots measures have only emerged as a result of the memorials, obscuring the real opponent and hiding that liberation is a strategic choice of the European Union and the domestic urban order, since the 1990s - not yesterday, the day before - and it is certainly not a culprit of the memorials or the capitalist economic crisis that broke out in our country. It has been proved, ladies and gentlemen, to some people that the so-called 'green development' has become a chicken that makes the golden egg. They've opened up a familial, and in the name of the salvation of the planet they're doing green business, and at the same time the people pay an expensive price for the energy if they have to pay for it. And what does the government support on this matter? 'We have', he says, 'commitments from the Paris Agreement to reduce emissions of pollutants. There are also the objectives of the European Union and we must therefore take this international framework into account.' In the opinion of the Communist Party of Greece, there is a great deal of hypocritical approach to reality. Because, even if one accepts the need to limit emissions of pollutants, today the development of technology offers us other, higher technical solutions that could save pollutants corresponding to Giga Watts for wind energy, while at the same time ensuring clearly reduced costs and thus lower costs. I'm talking about lignite. Even if we accept that we need to reduce carbon dioxide, which is responsible for the ozone hole, why should we do so and not industrially developed countries? If we still accept that we should contribute to this, why should this be done only with wind turbines? And why should we choose only the energy sector? Why don't you, for example, start from ships or cars? Even if we say that we need to intervene in the energy sector, doing all the above, today there is modern technology that, if used to produce energy from lignite, we will be able to produce more electricity with less lignite and thus produce more energy with less pollutants. It's bad lignite, you say, in general. Insulated for the emission of pollutants. Yes, but now suddenly PPC's stations are sold, lignite is allowed. We are talking about domestic energy sources cheap, which would reduce our country's energy dependence and ensure the necessary energy efficiency. However, apart from the use of lignite, there are also large hydroelectric projects. Why don't these investments be promoted? So it is hypocritical that your approach is being taken, because within it there is the profit factor of business groups, and that is what you, in particular, take into account any energy planning you have. This side you want to hide from the people's family, by invoking environmental protection. But this profit is paid by the popular layers through the increase in electricity prices. For the same reason the so-called ‘green pollutant charges’ were multiplied. You're talking about a social economy, energy cooperatives, and it goes on to say. These, in our view, do not constitute solutions to the benefit of the people. First of all, they do not conflict with the action of business groups, but their role is complementary to this action. That is why the European Union promotes the energy cooperatives and implements them, with the agreement of the other parties that drink water in the name of the European Union, the Euro-mono street. I would like to focus on an issue, because it is too great and the European Union's energy policy in general has many aspects. The decisions of the European Union Council of Energy Ministers recently made on 18 and 19 December are clear. Among other things, what stands out is the proposal for a free definition - be careful! - electricity prices by suppliers, without any restriction and State interference. So what will we have on the basis of this decision? It's a proposal. On the other hand, the price of electricity will be freely determined. In particular, the second one, the changes in the pricing method, i.e., may lead to some projects that are less profitable for large capital. What are you doing with this bill? Where business groups do not go to invest in renewable energy projects, which do not have or have a small profit where small projects are generally small, take advantage of the energy cooperatives as a financing tool for these projects. What happens in this case? In a sector where large business groups, small and medium-sized enterprises and now we will also have cooperatives, who will be one of the three that will shape, for example, the price - freely shaped - on the basis of competition? Who will be the one to shape the electricity price? Who will stand up to a ruthless competition in this sector? I think the answer to these questions is self-evident: large capital. So what will happen in practice is that there is even greater concentration and concentration of funds in a few hands, based on the development of competition, which is also the case in all sectors of the economy and not just in energy. What will be the course of energy cooperatives? In simple terms, because every one - in introductory terms - - -'social undertaking' in capitalism operates within this system and objectively will operate on these terms of the capitalist economy, whether it will remove the social cloak - I stress, its mantle and not its character - and it will become a capitalist company, that is to say, through the competition it will make great profits, whether it will cease to operate as a business or close down, that is, or, in the end, it will grow. Even to the extent that there will be some implementation of such cooperative RES, the real winner will be the production of the material for these RES and, of course, the construction companies that will build these projects. In any case, however, the people will be lost. We will have an increase in energy prices and a greater exploitation of workers in these enterprises. Is there a solution to the benefit of the people? In our opinion, renewable energy sources, in order to provide energy for the benefit of the people, must be integrated into a socially-based multi-faceted energy sector that will be the property of the people. This is the way out that the Communist Party of Greece is proposing, and that is why labour power, in order to socialize factories, the means of production, to abolish the slave labour slavery, to consolidate social property relations, to have scientific central planning in general in the economy. In any case, however, in order to prevent some, we do not have a passive expectation of a long day when the problems of the people are to be solved. From now on, the people must organise their counter-response, demand to drastically reduce, for example, electricity tariffs for people's consumption, abolish green fees and indirect taxes on fuel, abolish oligomenes, register stable work with thirty-five-day eight hours, not deliver lignite reserves, water and wind potential in private groups. You are talking about reducing the cost of agricultural production. Why do you not implement farmers' requests for duty-free oil, as you give shipowners, cheap agricultural current and water, as you give industrialists, abolishing VAT on agricultural means and supplies, building the necessary infrastructure and so on? These are farmers' demands and they go down the road of the struggle since February 22. It is therefore clear that we are dealing with a political problem and cannot be solved without the conflict with the real opponent, which is the ruling class of capitalists and their political representatives, without overthrowing the power of capital. For all these reasons, we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much Mr. Vardalis. The reason is the special speaker from the Independent Greeks, George Lazarides, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing a bill in which, as is the case with most of the bills that have come from this government, the vast majority of the institutions have been positive. In this bill too, the vast majority of the bodies are positive. We have heard various views, including the views of the Opposition - and I refer to the two parties that have been ruling the place forty years - which, once again, have only made negative comments and negative positions. But many ideas have been put forward here. Many people said "it's not a good idea or a provision, which is in the bill, we have this idea or the other". And I say, forty years when they ruled this place and destroyed it, these ideas where they were? Forty years, didn't they? Did they miss those ideas? Now that they've gone to the opposition, do they have them? So they're benefiting from opposition, it's good for them. But, you know, ladies and gentlemen, opposition is not only good for them. It is good at the place too, because it protects the place, because they have destroyed this country and this government is now correcting the destruction they have brought. And it does so without ruining the lives of the citizens, but protecting, taking social measures and not just draining the Greek people. I have heard a number of comments from my colleague earlier. He questioned the government's performance. I would like - before I arrive at the remarks on the bill - to remind colleagues and people who are listening to us that these two parties, who treat themselves in this way, in the five years when they took over the country's rescue, have brought 25% of GDP down while Syria had in the five years of war. In other words, we had the same picture, the same economic figures, the same figures as a country that had five years been affected by a civil war. The same thing they have done here in our home country over the past five years. We had a 25% reduction in GDP and took 65 billion tax measures over five years, i.e. 13 billion a year, the tax burden on Greeks, taking into account, of course, the primary surpluses, for which they were committed, which were unbelievable. This government succeeded and reduced it in the summer of 2015. Let's not forget that! There was also a reference to the agricultural sector, some of the measures they took to use renewable energy in agriculture and so on. Agriculture - to remember - was 23% when we entered the European Union and December 2014 delivered it to 3%. From 23% took her to 3%. Then, with photovoltaics and others to remember that they encouraged farmers to cut almonds, stop production and put photovoltaic fields. This government, with the measures it takes, marries agricultural production with the RES. It does not put any sector at work at the expense of the other and especially at the expense of agriculture. On the contrary, this government is taking steps to stimulate agriculture and we already have good results. As far as the country's net exit is concerned, I have heard something that one colleague said earlier, that the country's exit will be clean, that is not what the government says. All international bodies, all international actors, and the press and markets, if you like, say so, all those who judge each country's economic size and economic history. They are saying that by August 2018 Greece will have a clear exit. This government doesn't say so. They were the ones who, in the five years that took over the rescue of the country, said 'the country leads it to destruction'. They were the ones who moved their fingers, those who sent them the orders by e-mail and fax, and they executed them. As Diaselblum admitted, the recipe chosen for the rescue of the country was wrong, because it should not - he says - save banks in Greece against taxpayers. But here, we Greeks respond, because we know what has been done here - with the investigation that this government has done to the banks and the examinations and the evidence they are coming out of - that, that is, that this wrong recipe was deliberately chosen by the government at the time. Because if the right solution were chosen, the European Central Bank would have to send auditors to control the Greek banks and then the whole "game" would have been revealed at the expense of the Greek banks by these two ruling parties. That is why they chose to close three banks. PASOK and New Democracy closed three banks - pillars of Greece. Let us not forget them: the Agricultural, Commercial and Postal Treasury. These two parties did so as not to reveal the over-investment that both parties made and the whole circle of their friends, this cycle of interdependence with the media, etc., where one fed the power of others. Fortunately, with the examinations of this government, everything has been revealed and, slowly, everyone will assume their responsibilities. Of course, since 2011 both parties have not served their debts. Let's see what's going to happen with them. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill for the energy communities with many positive elements, which defines measures, sets incentives and conditions for combating energy poverty and improving the size of the Greek economy in renewable sources. It is certain that, if implemented properly, local communities will benefit, and their creation will be a tool for direct democracy, locality and sustainability in the energy sector. The plan introduces a completely different logic from the one we have used to so far, not only on environmental issues, but also on the development of renewable energy sources as well as on the operation and activation of local societies. It greatly strengthens our efforts to deal with energy poverty in Greece and also to strengthen households to reconnect the current to those who could not pay their bills, with the aim of no household having problems with heating and electricity in the winter months. Partnerships for energy production and disposal are a very important institution. Private consumers, together with the municipalities or the region and small and medium-sized and medium-sized enterprises, will be able to create energy communities, exploit renewable energy, essentially the public resources existing in their region. The aim is that the profits from the production of electricity, heat, cooling or other energy will be voted on by their electricity. In two words, apart from consumers, they can be converted into electricity producers, with significant benefits in reducing their own energy costs. It is very important to maintain locality, both in terms of the right of participation and the seat. The draft law describes in detail how energy communities are formed, the type and the minimum content of their statutes, as well as issues of solution, merger or conversion, as appropriate. A partnership area shall be established and equality between stakeholders shall be ensured. Everyone has an equal right to decision in the energy community. That is why it is planned to represent one vote for each member, irrespective of the cooperative share it holds. These arrangements are very important as well as incentives. Equally important is the legalisation of this and the association of the remote islands. Electricity is quite costly, how much more so for the small island municipalities, which is why small islands and inhabitants of these islands are allowed to create their own energy community so that they can produce and use electricity either in the production and use of thermal energy or in their accounts from the production and netting of this energy. The new bill deals with creating an appropriate institutional framework for combating energy poverty in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, we hope to be one of the first European countries to incorporate the Community directives promoting the social economy in the energy sector, with a double benefit to both communities and the environment. The Independent Greeks agree to be given the opportunity for a cooperative to build a network and meet needs with cheaper energy and to support those who do not have to pay. Most of all, however, we agree that the bill concerns not only farmers, private enterprises or cooperatives producing energy for self-production or for citizens of the islands, but even people of the city who want to form an energy cooperative to participate in an energy upgrade programme for their building. We are pleased that this possibility is universally granted to our fellow citizens, who will certainly take advantage of it, since the basic principle of the bill is the dissemination of the benefit to members of the energy community and, above all, to local society. When energy is linked to the social economy and the development of the energy model, then we will have contributed to something of great importance. We will be a step closer to energy autonomy, with self-sufficiency in resources and a synonym for the social economy. The Independent Greeks are clearly positive in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Lazarides. The reason is the special speaker from the Centroon Association Mr. Dimitrios Cavalellas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. The bill we are discussing is entitled 'Energy Communities and other provisions'. It consists of two parts. The first part, entitled ‘Energy Communities’, consists of Articles 1-12 establishing the framework for the organisation and operation of the energy communities and the second part, entitled ‘Other provisions’, includes Articles 13 to 23, the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, where the issues of this content are dealt with. This draft law introduces the institutional framework for the establishment and operation of energy communities and in Greece. First of all, before I turn to the substance of the matter, I would like to say that we are positive. However, because amendments have been tabled, which have been delayed, until the vote of the bill is taken, we say'residents' as a party. Energy community is considered as an exclusive urban cooperative to promote the social and solidarity economy and innovation in the energy sector, addressing energy poverty, promoting energy sustainability, producing, storing, storing, self-consumption, distribution and supply of energy, as well as improving energy efficiency in end-use at local and regional level. It is non-profit-making, except in the case of Article 2(4). There are some issues that, in comparative examination, one goes against the other. In other words, there are some conflicting concepts. For example, in the comparative examination referred to in Article 1(1), it is stated that energy communities are non-profit-making, except in the case of paragraph 4 of Article 2, and in paragraph 3 it is stated that energy communities seek economic benefit. One says that it is non-profit-making and the other article says that they seek economic benefit. So the question is: does the third paragraph refer to Article 2(4)? Article 2(1)(b) provides that members of an energy community may also be legal persons under private law, while provision is made for the minimum number of members to participate in private law. So the question here is: can they be members and legal persons or should they have a minimum number of necessary? Paragraph 4 provides that where members of the energy community are at least fifteen and 50% of them are natural persons, the statute may provide that the energy community is a speculative one and that profit distribution is permitted. Looks a little rough about this. Is this sound touches, that one is allowed and below is forbidden or forbidden at first and then allowed, is it a kind of bonus to the already active companies? Because, now, large companies which already have a licence can create energy communities by using this law in conjunction with Law 1667/1986, without changing anything from their speculative character. Before we vote, then, these should be adequately explained. However, as I said, we are positive at the outset in terms of promoting regulations that facilitate the creation of energy communities and cooperatives. In this way, we believe that investment opportunities are being created for operators, for those who have so far not been able to invest in 'clean energy' in 'green energy'. Following a few comments from the Photovoltaic Association, I would like to highlight a few things and I would like to focus more on three points where the assessment is made that they will improve this draft law. Since the LAGs wishing to make use of the proposed institutional framework raise as a major issue the issue of finding funds to finance energy projects, it would be more useful to provide for the possibility of the Deposits and Loans Fund being able to participate in guaranteeing and supporting such actions. Because the Deposit and Loan Fund has already planned funding for OTA lighting, road network projects - it is nothing new, that is - and it has covered both studies and the rental of machinery with its own resources. In other words, it is involved in similar projects, so it could also be useful here and offer its potential for the promotion of energy projects, given the economic weakness that exists at the moment - and the technical, of course - both the citizens and the OTAs, who could support these projects on their own. It could therefore be part of the development of such projects on a tripartite basis, i.e. there should be the private person, there should be OTA and there should also be supportive of the Deposits and Loan Fund, so that investment, construction of the project, maintenance and monitoring of the project in close proximity to a three-year or five-year period, so that it can be supported by resources more than three years or five years and since there are the expected benefits to be able to get back and he should be able to get his money. Since the creation of an energy community requires some initial costs and a lot of time until its completion and in order not to lose these opportunities under the terms of a deadline or to lose NSRF funding, there is a thought that they can submit the funding proposals to the current NSRFs and energy communities that are under recommendation, so that they do not have to set up integrated companies, which require publications and other costs, and if there is a negative response they will have incurred the costs and all these conservation obligations in the end. It's definitely a brake, it's creating an indecisiveness to someone who wants to invest. Specifically for social support structures or structures that support socially vulnerable groups of citizens and SMEs, of course, who would like to create energy communities and exploit energy production for either their own use or networking, provision should be made for the possibility of participating in relevant NSRP programmes, while guaranteeing from the Deposit and Loan Fund, so that these projects could be supported more forcefully. There is also an intervention from the PV producers association, which we consider to be beneficial to introduce in today's debate. In principle, therefore, the Photovoltaic Energy Producers Association has advocated cooperative schemes for the further development of RES in Greece and the consistent involvement of small and medium-sized individuals in them. At the time, however, of the memoranda that banks do not lend, they do not support, there is no possibility for many to make own funds available - because they do not exist - which is basically the only practice, since there is no support from the banks. However, only by aggregation of powers is such an investment possible with regard to the small and medium-sized enterprises, which all together can perhaps raise the costs required for the RES. The Photovoltaic Energy Manufacturers Association, therefore, because it perceives multi-participating form as one of the only possible investment opportunities, has already raised a relevant development initiative. It is not something that is first introduced, it is already in Europe that this way of investing and creating RES is now in place. Vision, then, of such a development model, for example, may be what has been successfully performed in the area of health, hospitality, which some a few decades ago, mostly doctors, developed cooperative awareness, established standards for private hospitals, which operate successfully to this day. Similarly, there are successful cooperative initiatives of the 1980 ’ s by pharmacists who extended their activities to wholesale through the establishment of suppliers’ associations active in the trafficking of medicinal products or medicines. The incentive referred to in Article 10 in the draft law on energy communities and, of course, their priority in RAE licensing, the privileged conditions for participation or incomplete exclusion from competitive procedures in Article 7 of Law 4414 for the registration of a 20-year sale price of energy produced, prioritising from and issuing connection terms to networks, are positive conditions for the creation of an energy Community. In this way, the need for cooperatives to buy some maturely licensed projects is being unloaded, since they are now given the opportunity by more timely procedures to create their own RES. So there are several positive articles too. But there are what I mentioned earlier, which we could study adequately. As far as Macedonia is concerned, I would like to say that the three hundred Leonidas said'moon received', while our three hundred say 'Come and get it all'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much Mr Cavadela. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Under the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, following the annexes thereto'. The special speaker of the river, Mr. Mavrotas, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law entitled "Energy Communities and other provisions" we had the time to discuss it in detail in committee, contrary to the Multi-Project. The twelve of its twenty-three articles, that is, the first part, concerns the energy communities and the rest are various short-term energy provisions. Part One defines the institutional framework for decentralised production. Why are we talking about decentralized production? Because technology allows us to do that now. Squeeze the size of the efficient devices. With the new technologies we can now have efficient cogeneration appliances for electricity - heat in the order of some kilowatts (KW) or similar small wind and photovoltaic. We can have micro-networks linking neighborhoods, smart meters and automation that optimize the energy system. There is now the possibility of storing thermal and electrical energy with new materials. We now have an efficient use of geothermality and biomass. While, in the previous century, the exclusive trend was central to large power plants, mainly thermal power plants and hydroelectric power plants, decentralised production is gaining more and more ground in the 21st century. It is now becoming competitive both in economic and environmental terms, i.e. in all three criteria for sustainable development. Close to that, we should also put on new trends that exist except for production and management of energy demand, rational use and, above all, energy savings. Energy saving is an area in which our country has a great potential for improvement, especially in the building sector. I am also in favour of the House building, which we are now in, is such an example of a building with great potential to save energy. There is even an invitation to the programme of energy upgrading public buildings with EUR 3 million in order to move this energy upgrade of the House, which we hope will progress quickly. Energy saving is therefore an economically and environmentally beneficial activity. And as they taught us at school as students, and as we teach our students now, to highlight the importance of the proper use of energy at the School of Chemical Engineering at the University of Polytechnic, we say that the cleanest kilowatt now is the one that never needed. Here, important role is played - and they will play even more in the future - by companies providing energy services. In fact, Article 4(11) of the draft law provides for the creation of ESCOs, i.e. Energy Service Companies, which contribute to energy savings and efficient use through third party financing mechanisms, so-called Third - Party Finance. Where energy savings are available, then, these energy services can help to avoid the high cost of investment, in times when lending is too stubborn to no one from the banks, as you have done, and to pay back from energy savings. Another very important element is the combination of various activities, which we can use in decentralised production. Consider, for example, the combination of waste management with energy production, as there is everywhere in Europe, or the combination of primary production - biomass production or from livestock production - with energy production. Technology, therefore, offers abundant solutions with which activities can be combined for an integrated energy planning, even at local and regional level. And here, international experience can be a valuable advisor, especially when the issue of decentralised production is at the heart of the European Union's energy policies, especially when our country's geomorphology is such that there is remote and inappropriate areas and we also have a strong islandity unique in Europe. This institutional framework is trying to put the bill. In the committees, we have also heard the institutions. Some legislative improvements have been made. Generally, it is a bill that has broad acceptance by the energy and environmental community. The establishment of a framework for energy communities is seen as a positive initiative, since it is an action in the direction that the European Union has defined and put as a policy of immediate priority. The regulation of energy communities enables citizens and local bodies to have a more active role in the process of productive reconstruction of the economy, but also to use the clean and inexhaustible resources of our place to reduce energy costs. I would just like to make a few remarks, which we have also made in the committees, on Articles 1 to 12. Article 1 and paragraph 1 describes the definition and purpose of energy communities. There we have a proposal of eighteen lines that can create misunderstandings - I become a little more specific - in conjunction with Article 4 where the purpose of energy communities is repeated together with the activities. Article 4, therefore, expressly includes activities: Production, distribution and supply of thermal or refrigerating energy within the region situated in its head office, without expressing, as it does in the first paragraph, that they are from renewable sources or from cogeneration. In other words, the question arises as to whether the production of thermal or refrigerating energy can also be made from conventional forms other than cogeneration and RES. Maybe that's where we need a clarification, which can be done later with some circulars. Also, in relation to Article 2, for the members of the energy community, we may have to have a flexibility in proving the relationship with a place. So, if a young man wants to take part in such an operation, is it excessive to have a real estate in this place? Should there be other ways of doing this without losing decentralised character? Let's go to the second place with the other energy provisions. There has been a lot of discussion in the Committees on Article 16 and the direct assignment by RAE to external partners of some critical for the long-term energy project of work. The amount is EUR 400,000 for 2018, according to the legislative improvement submitted. Obviously, it is the "driving" of some energy models, so that RAE can give its opinion on the basis of Law 4001/2011. However, the issue of the lack of long-term energy planning has already been raised since March 2017 at our meetings with the Minister and RAE in April 2017. By question, in fact, we returned in May 2017, which replied in September. In the debate in the committees, the Minister was justified on the urgency of the matter, saying that in September the new templates, the new standards, i.e. recording the data and forecasts required by the European Union, were just given. The issues raised by the institutions are, on the one hand, the undersubmitment of the RAE, which is gradually being dismantled from very specific executives, because they find better jobs elsewhere, on the other hand, that all the relevant bodies, such as the CAP, the specialised university laboratories and research centres, will be involved. They are bodies that are a little well known to the presenters of Jerusalem of energy models. So let us accept that this has finally come up as an urgent one. However, our opinion is that direct delegation could be avoided by making the process more open and transparent. Let me refer here to another issue that emerged at Christmas, following the debate that we had in the committees. The National Energy and Climate Committee was set up by Act of the Ministerial Council on 27 December, which is responsible for national energy planning. It is a 20-year-old committee - as is practically the case with the Ministerial Council - with six Secretary-Generals of Ministries, several Heads of Independent Authorities and four experts, selections of the Secretary-General for Energy and Mineral Resources. We also have two representatives of political offices of Ministers. That puts us in thought. To a national committee of representatives of political offices of Ministers? In fact, not one, but two representatives. And the Minister and the Deputy Minister, do they really have an institutional status? In addition, how it is justified in such a committee that there are no representatives of the productive bodies, where, in paragraph 2 of the Act of the Ministerial Council, it reads: 'We take into account the need for an advisory body, in which the co-legislative state, social and productive bodies are represented, as well as market representatives in the energy sector to support government work and to provide proposals for the establishment of the national energy and climate action plan'. If producers or market representatives are missing from such a committee, who will, after all, implement any energy planning? Also, where are the social actors in this 20-year-old committee? Where are non-governmental organisations, GREENPEACE, WWF active in the field? Finally, to Law 4001/2011, Article 3, in addition to RAE, which we have already seen in Article 16 of the draft law, was also the Economic and Social Committee, namely the Committee, which we see is completely absent from the National Energy and Climate Commission. I think that this act, Minister, should be re-examined and you should amend Article 3 of Law 4001/2011 accordingly, so that this committee would be consulted on long-term energy planning and not RAE with the Committee. In other words, we have a 20-year-old National Committee on Energy and Climate, in which the majority of its members are state officials and party officials, without representatives of social and productive bodies. To come a little bit to the news yesterday and because it relates to your Ministry and your decisions, Mr Stathakis, we would like some clarification on something Mr Maniotis mentioned earlier. There are EUR 200,000 for the publicity of the act to replace oil heating systems with natural gas systems in residential dwellings, which will be implemented under the ESDP 2014-2020. These publicity expenditures relate to a television campaign, radio and press release. The paper press will go about 20,000. In this respect, we saw yesterday in the "GENERAL" that it relates to five newspapers: "NEW PAGE" with 4,000, "NATIONAL" 4,000, "The Journal of Authors" 2,880, "DOCUMENTO" 1500 and "HUNGY" 180. As far as I understand it, this was done by way of direct delegation, because in the decisions that exist in the 'DENMARK', there is no call for interest in the various relevant documents, usually referred to in the 'DENMARK'. The question is, why didn't you choose the maximum dissemination of this action? Why, then, was this not given to other newspapers? You asked and they didn't want to? On the natural object of this project, the maximum dissemination is intended. With these five newspapers, do we achieve this maximum dissemination? And if you didn't think it was right to have entries in all the publications, then what criteria were chosen for these five newspapers, which you didn't always call anti-government? And the following question arises: How did this distribution of money take place? Was it based on the release of the newspapers or did you simply accept the financial offer of each newspaper? As far as these practices are concerned, because I was also a member of the committee to investigate the financing of parties and the media, and one of the issues we were discussing at the time is how they thought of banks, but also of public services - for example, CEDEFOP, CEDEFOP - various entries in specific newspapers, despite the findings made by this committee, we see that history, even for smaller amounts, reappears. In fact, today, we have also seen a revocation of the acts in "DENMARK", following yesterday's revelations and the river, for the three highest fees, namely the newspapers "New PAGE", "The Journal of the Authors" and "NATIONS". We would like, if you can, to explain that to us a little. I close after these two issues, which we consider to be quite serious, namely the National Committee on Energy and Climate, and the allocation of programme promotion funds, because television will also follow, and the radio will follow - so that we do not have such practices, you should see them - going back to the bill and saying that we are positive in defining the framework for energy communities. Let the framework begin to function, and here we will be as a legislator to improve it when and wherever necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much Mr. Mavrota. Mr George Stathakis has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, a draft law is currently being introduced, which is undoubtedly a great part of the energy sector in Greece. For the first time, we are enabling citizens, small and medium-sized enterprises, local bodies to gain active involvement in the transformation process of our energy system. At the same time - and this is something that needs to be heard - we are leading Europe first, as we are the first countries to establish a clear and transparent framework for the operation of energy communities - which has also highlighted the whole of ecological organisations - and we are now leading to a framework that aims to open new paths to the transformation of our country. I would like to point out once again that this is a bill which has nothing to do with the country's Memorandum Obligations, an initiative of 100% of the present government. It is a bill bearing the seal of how we understand a more general strategy in the energy sector and in the context of the exit from the crisis and the productive reconstruction of the Greek economy. Let me remind you that our energy strategy has two major pillars, assuming that we are committed as a country and to the high targets of Paris and to the idea of an ambitious strategy for the whole of the European Union 2020-2030. So, in relation to the Paris Agreement and the European Commission's 2020-2030 targets, we are among the countries that we support ambitious objectives both in energy saving and in the second pillar, in energy production. So our country is committed to two things: firstly, that 2020-2030 should be approached to a very high proportion of RES participation in the energy mix in the country. And secondly, that by then we should have taken huge steps to save energy, which is about all of our activities - housing, transport - all of the things we are consuming. We therefore need a huge effort - particularly in the second pillar - to achieve this. In the context of this dual strategy, the change in the mix of energy production and energy savings, the institution of the energy communities in both these pillars comes to open a path and a prospect. So far, both of these activities have been primarily an entrepreneurial object. In the case of RES, we had two groups - waves of development of RES in our country. The PV companies dominated the small and medium-sized enterprises and we had the first wave of development of PVCs. In the second wave, which is windy, we usually have large businesses, because investments in winds are generally much more expensive. Today the range of guaranteed prices - the latest guaranteed prices given to wind parks was last March - we are entering a new field where the development of RES will no longer be based on guaranteed prices, but on competitive procedures. These competitive procedures make it possible to do what has been said by a number of colleagues. Continuous improvement in technology puts the costs of RES. The first indications now from the competitive processes show that the costs of RES, the supply of energy through RES, are now close to the average marginal cost of energy production. I would remind you that in Greece the average limit value is EUR 70 per kilowatt, and the recent competitions show that the RES also reach a level just below EUR 90. So we are on a course where production through RES will probably remain more accurate for some years, but it is very close to the average. I would remind you that in the past it has been too high, close to EUR 200 and more than EUR 200 for some years. Therefore, in the midst of these changes, we are opening up a third space for energy production, beyond large businesses, beyond small and medium-sized enterprises, which will continue to invest and develop their individual markets. With the institution of the energy communities, we enable all the actors in society to produce energy, whether it is a building, or three craft industries, five hotels, universities, municipalities and so on. Suddenly, we are opening up a new field with which we will be able to produce energy through RES, which is fully geared to the second principle, at the beginning of locality. This is what we seek local production, local consumption. This is the central idea of a decentralised system of energy production, where consumption and production will have strong locality rules. That is why this bill also passes through strong insurance, so that the local nature of the company is clear. Here I would like to assure you - because there are voices that some great interests will bypass all systems to unify localities and so on. - that as articles are formulated, they are fully protected against such possible scenarios. So strong locality. Secondly, synergies and partnerships: our central idea is that there must be a combination of individuals, initiatives, social actors and a social economy. The element of the social economy must be strengthened and we support it by an additional rule, a rule of democracy within the energy communities. Equality shall be fully guaranteed at the rate of voting of the participants, irrespective of a cooperative share. So we are at a point where we are at the same time strengthening the locality, partnership and cooperative and social structure of activities and strong rules of democracy. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] In particular, the activity of energy communities will be based on the use, as far as possible, of the netting between the consumption of a subject and its ability to produce that particular consumption by its own means. This is the central principle. At the same time, however, the way is open to sell the surplus of energy it has and to build an energy community, which will have the sole purpose of producing and selling energy. And that's guaranteed. Objections and expectations: There is no doubt that the intention and aim of the bill is to reduce the cost of energy for households and small and medium-sized enterprises, to further infiltrate the RES - it is our strategic objective - to achieve greater local acceptance of the RES by resolving conflict issues, which so far - reasonably or not - have been created at intervals. Also, the aim and purpose of the bill is to have a great deal of innovation in production and energy planning, as this will begin to create a broad economic activity, based on realities on innovations, which will also create prospects for specific sectors of the economy and at the same time create conditions of local production much more intense. In addition, strengthening solidarity and the pillar of the social economy, as I have pointed out, is a key element of our importance, as well as increasing investment with the main aim of sustainability and respect for the environment, making use of all available tools available on the energy market, clearing energy, virtual energy netting, smart meters - smart energy meters, etc., with which we will see an overall extension of these tools. Let me turn to the debate that has taken place with the institutions. As you have seen, there has been a overwhelming support of this institution by all the bodies and of course by the ecological organisations, the Chamber of Technical Chamber, the Chamber of Economics, the TEIs and all the bodies involved in it. Also, the existing energy cooperatives of Carditsa and Sifnos are positively faced with this process. I will say a word about this debate. It seemed that all proposals from all of this wide range of social actors have been incorporated into the bill. Some of the last proposals that have been made for storage, etc. They are in our amendments. This is of enormous importance, because I think it is a bill that the government can say: 'what good we are', but I think it needs broad consensus, because it opens a path. From there on, it is not the subject of close party or governmental treatment. It's a step we have to take. It opens very important routes to our energy transformation. Local communities will hug it. They must embrace it, because it opens enormous potential. In this sense, I think it is a mature bill, which has closed the dialogue cycle and has also created a wider social consensus. Let me turn to the amendments that have been tabled. I believe that all of them are technical amendments. The first, namely, for energy offsetting, adds the proposal for the storage of GREENPEACE and geothermality and helium, which did not have certain unimported RES technologies. For the purchase of natural gas, the basic addition relates to the obligation to retain a stock of liquefied natural gas on a ship. We have agreed with all the operators and there is a winter boat at this stage. If exceptional events, as we had last winter, are being tackled, it is the best way to have a gas-fired ship, which will cover the case of extreme demand in heavy winter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u34	Minister, do you repeat this?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u35	Yeah. Last year we had a supply problem. Now producers and everyone have agreed that it will be a ship additional to a stock that will operate over the three months etc. and has a cost that is shared and paid in a particular way. With regard to the extensions of the payment deadlines for the connection costs of IPTO by the specific work of the Polypotamos - you know this - the cost has increased. There is a debate on how to divide up so that consumers do not get hit. The contracts were concluded by 31 December 2016. It needs a small extension so that the owners of power stations pay the total cost of connecting them. With regard to the revival of Ottawa production licences, I think we are giving them a second chance. They are OTAs that were excluded from their work. We are giving them an additional deadline. I also come to the provision on which the New Democracy amazes me because it calls into question the introduction of the environmental home tariff in the region of Western Macedonia and the Megalopolis. This regulation strengthens over forty thousand households in the environmentally charged areas of the Region of Western Macedonia and the Municipality of Megalopolis in the regional unit of Arcadia. In particular, a discount of up to 42 euros is guaranteed in the electricity bills, regardless of the supplier, for a hundred and thirty-three thousand households in western Macedonia and eight thousand households in Megalopolis. Depending on the amount of electricity consumption, in total electricity costs we have a discount of between 25% and 27.5%, while in competitive costs we have an even greater discount of 44%, which means around 30%. The measure has been costed at 17.5 million on the basis of the consumption figures for these regions and is divided into 16 million for the region of western Macedonia, 0.7 million for the Municipality of Megalopolis, with a security pillow of 0.8 million. That's what they're budgeted for. The New Democracy's criticism was triple: Firstly, that we are reintroducing favorable arrangements by reviving the evil, biasing state of the past. It doubts, in essence, the feasibility of this arrangement. So we advocate the feasibility of regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u36	For whom, Minister? For the setting?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u37	You'll hear. I would like to hear arguments to question the feasibility of the regulation. I would therefore like to hear from the New Democracy an argument, instead of saying that the regulation goes back to the past and favours individual groups, I do not know what else you imply, to have a substantial debate on whether or not you agree on feasibility. Secondly, you are criticising us that we do not have the technical details and refer them to the ministerial decision. The technical details are many, because they are the household social invoice, and PPC's employees already have a discount. So the technical details cannot be entered into the law, they will come out in a certain way, without being tampered with - it has been committed - the amount in the budget has been laid down by law. The technical details are too many. I imagine you're giving the right not to be incorporated into the law. Likewise, the duration. Today, we are taking a big step. We recognize the problem. It is an issue that has been discussed in detail in the local society - Mr Karyapidis is also present - and it is an issue on which the government has also agreed at the local regional conference that the feasibility is given, and the way is there and this must be completed. So the environmental household tariff today is being established, I repeat - and it opens - to say it differently, as I understand it - something that should have happened for years and is being delayed today. I would like to close by saying something more about western Macedonia. You have questioned the accession of Western Macedonia to natural gas. Let me make this right here too. Following completion of the construction of the TAP in 2019, it has been agreed with TAP that there should be two exits of the gas distribution pipeline. There's two exits. These points are close to Ptolemais and a close to Kastoria. The project will be carried out by the TEN with additional loans from the European Investment Bank and the TEN will contribute with EUR 12.6 million. It has therefore been agreed to extend the project to the region. It has become cost-benefit analysis, resources have been committed from the ESDP by the EIP 12.6 million euros, and this has been committed by the regional manager, I think, so we have access. When TAP starts, the goal is to be ready, with the top priority of Kastoria, the Argos of Orchard and Kosani. I therefore believe that the region will also have access to natural gas. To return to the bill, after the extensive parentheses I have made, in order to respond to the issues raised by the New Democracy. It is obvious that today I will not answer the issues of PPC. You raised many issues for PPC. Any day, in a timely question express, we can sit as many hours as you want to talk about it. The same applies to the issues you have raised if we take the view of advertising expenditure in favour of pro-government newspapers and others, which we will also be able to discuss outside today's bill. So, in a lot of these questions, I won't place myself. I must respond, however, as it has been said, to the Committee on Energy Planning. I want it to be clear. We have set up a committee, but we will follow a consultation procedure, just as it has been done in Italy. In other words, the House will twice come the "energy planning", as a primacy, which will gather all parties' views and on a second round, when energy planning has matured. So it will be discussed twice in the House. A similar consultation procedure, with environmental organisations, producer organisations and so on, will be followed by all production and other bodies. So hire this committee as we announced, more as a starting point for the dialogue. The main burden, obviously, will also have a decisive role for RAE and the Renewable Energy Centre and all the other institutions that have the potential to design. I assure you that it will be a very long, exhaustive dialogue with all the participants. There will not be any mood - nor is there for our part - to build a project within offices to meet the formal obligation for the 2020-2030 energy planning. It will be a very methodical consultation and discussion process and you will see that it will be done in the best possible way. To close, let me go back to the bill, which is a bill - cut. It's got to be backed up. He's opening a road. It is up to local bodies, and beyond, active support. Our first commitment is that the CAPE has the central platform that strengthens this whole process. We must really hope that this will open up and achieve the objectives, the ambitious objectives that the draft law brings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u38	Madam President, I would like the floor for a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u39	Which consists of what?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u40	The Minister referred to what I said in a way that distorts the essence of what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u41	Okay, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u42	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have said it, but you have not heard or understood it. We have not told you that we are opposed to regulation, which you are bringing with regard to the inhabitants of western Macedonia and the municipality of Megalopolis. We have said that it is a rough way of ordering it in the way you legislate and, secondly, you do not speak specifically of what you are going to do. First of all, there is no mention of time and indeed of what you have said that for a year only you have predicted that this financial aid will be granted, because you have avoided answering whether this will continue over the next few years. I urge you today to state clearly whether this is a promise to be a pre-election promise ahead of possible elections in 2018 or 2019, so that you can win some votes. The second thing I want to say to you is that the amendment, which proves that the villages of Palamari, Psari, Syrna, Greek and Pavlia, which belong to the Municipality of Gortynia, which is adjacent to the Municipality of Megalopolis and which receive and be entitled to lignite because they accept charges, do not include them in this amendment. So each of you, ladies and gentlemen, understands that it is just a rough amendment to the election announcement made by Prime Minister Tsipras when he went up to western Macedonia. They don't care to give a solution. If they were interested in giving solutions, then they would not use the pretext of TAP, a pipeline that you voted against, Minister, when you were in opposition. You and the Members of your party personally, because you did not want to build the TAP. You're coming now and you're saying the TAR has predicted the existence of four expenses. There were three of them and then four exits were made and you just determine where they are to be made. But these were provided for by the original contract. A contract that you did not vote for, I repeat. If it were you, there wouldn't be any TAP. So you cannot say and say that this is your work, when it is a project that you voted against when you were opposition. One last thing about PPC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u43	But come on. You've exceeded the minute. Don't put in here now. There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u44	You don't mention anything about PPC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u45	That's not personal, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u46	I take this as an impossibility to deal with what you have already committed, Minister, as far as PPC is concerned with the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u47	Madam President, may I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u48	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u49	That's why. I remember very well what we voted against and what we voted against. And a large part, I think, of criticism has been embedded. And the example is that we agreed four new exits to northern Greece is one of the issues that were discussed and improved. I don't remember being against the TAP at first. Don't talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u50	We weren't against it, Minister. We have voted on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u51	You did not vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u52	Other "negative".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u53	It is a project that, from the day we became a government, as you know, we moved on quickly and the TAP project in 2015 and 2016 has emerged as important.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u54	Will you talk to us about the CFD? Mercy, Minister. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u55	No comments now. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u56	It's been built nowadays.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u57	Is it built on your day? There's a lot going on for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u58	The licenses we gave, at the beginning of 2015...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u59	We gave the permits.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u60	And a lot more. Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u61	Well, all right. We're all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u62	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u63	No, Mr. Maniatis, you won't take the floor. That's all he was missing! Let's get started! We have twenty-eight speakers. Leave it now. Let the MPs also speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u64	The Minister who gave the permits is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u65	You'll tell us about TAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u66	I, too, remember very well who gave the permits in the first half of 2015. I remember very well. For the duration and the curiosity of our setting. The budget is a one-year one, I remember. One year. The budget, the current one. It is a regulation that we have made, applied and will continue to apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u67	Won't it have a period?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u68	Unless you change it when you become government once.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u69	So it's gonna have an unlimited period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Screka, please. We're doing a dialog here? It's like you're a rookie.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u71	Between the one and the unlimited, you want to find the golden incision.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u72	Unlimited.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u73	I'm glad you're unlimited. So for the clandestineness of the communes of Megalopoli, we are always open to constructive proposals from the New Democracy. You know that. In technical improvement, then, we're going to consult. I'd be happy to hear your ideas. By the way, I would like to make a legal improvement, if I may. In the amendment of the Ministry of the Environment No 1444/167/16-1-2018 to the first article of the amendment with the number I mentioned and entitled ‘Amendment to Article 14A of Law 3468/2006: ‘In the seventh paragraph, the words ‘with a maximum limit of 500 kW for the SG&A stations. and S.H.I.E.L.’ is replaced by ‘with a maximum limit of 1 MW for stations S.A. and S.H.I.E.L.C.’ Basically what we did for the energy communities from 500 to 1 MW, we do the same for the other production categories. This legislative improvement therefore extends the 500 KW to 1 MW for all producers, in line with the framework of the energy communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u74	I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you will allow me to speak on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, to speak on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary We are now entering the list of speakers. The first speaker is Mr Michelovanakis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Madam President. By 2015 two thousand energy communities have been recorded in Europe, but without an institutional framework. We're the first to introduce it this time. We take into account the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. We are creating the Energy Community, a urban cooperative for the purpose of social economy, energy production and energy efficiency, both at local and regional level. These are financed from national and European resources. Members may participate in funded projects. Involved by natural persons, legal persons, private persons, grades 1 and 2. 51% of the members must relate to the place where the seat of the energy community is situated. Each member shall have one vote, irrespective of the cooperative share he holds. Fixed tax rates are provided for, incorporation into the annual exemption instruments, production permit, reduced guarantee letters. Thus, residents of a building can place a photovoltaic system or wind turbines. Small businesses can set up a thermal power plant, wind park or hydroelectric project. Municipalities, especially now with their many vulnerable groups, can install a photovoltaic or wind turbines for these vulnerable consumers. Farmers can create and manage biomass. Farmers are setting up a biogas plant. Small islands create desalination plants. Tourist enterprises create an energy community for electric vehicles. So we see that the bill also catches our national strategy with democratisation, locality and partnerships, especially in the social economy. The bill is expected by Evros, the Peloponnese, the Municipality of Samothrace, the Municipality of Alexandroupolis and many other municipalities. We clearly have social benefits from this history and we face energy poverty by creating new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, too. The parliamentary representative of the Democratic Association, Mr Theocharopoulos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a serious bill, which concerns the democratisation of energy through the participation of the citizens. But we are talking about it through a wider political situation which is not only a smooth one. It is not the first time, after all, that a serious bill is in danger of passing on to almost a second fate. And how not to happen this in an environment extremely reassured by the State's loss of individual funds while maintaining all their burdens. PPC is a characteristic example, for which the Minister in charge today did not want to open the debate, but which is crucial in terms of energy planning. It's not reforming the sale of lignite. Nor, of course, if we change the names and we say 'deinvestment' instead of'sales', it changes something in this particular matter. It needs a serious medium-term planning to attract private investment to renewable sources of electricity and rehabilitation from lignite. But your investments and government are historically incompatible. And this has proved to be true. It is an incompatibility which is also reinforced with many contradictions. Here is a contradiction we have heard a moment ago and it concerns the TAP. First of all, your government denounced all this and repeatedly denounced it when it was in the opposition. To accept that you were one of the modestest in this process? To accept that you were one of the modestest. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] But you SYRIZA MPs didn't vote in here. You didn't vote for the TAP. If I am not mistaken, you have not personally voted, Mr Minister, for being a member of the SYRIZA to the opposition at the time. At least say that either you were wrong or now. It can't be both. This, in fact, outweighs every fantasy. Mr Maniatis is here, who was then the Minister responsible for bringing it, and you also complained and did not vote. Now, instead of saying that you made a mistake in this particular matter, we have a understanding, what we do further, you start talking like you discovered it! It's really here that fantasy outweighs every limit. Recently you stated that the sale of 40% of PPC's lignite potential will be completed in 2018. At the same time, you stressed that, despite the dynamic development of the RES, lignite will remain a key element of the energy mix, with particular weight on the grounds of stability, for economic and social reasons, at a level compatible with European polluting policy. So, for reasons of stability, economic and social, as you say, you're making progress on what you're going on in relation to PPC? What have you been analysed just now by the rapporteur for the Democratic Incorporation? In the fact that you've spent 34% in the superstition, 17% in the U.S.H.D., in that you're actually reducing half the share in the retail market? Look, what you do does not respond to the reality. And in relation to PPC, they don't respond. For PPC, when you were opposition, you said a lot. Some of them, of course, weren't in the air. But the criticism we are making is that you are doing exactly the opposite now. And, of course, you keep the same wage costs, the EUR 3.5 billion in debt, the same loans and the same charges. In other words, if you have not taken into account the reasons for stability, economic and social, which you have rightly referred to - not today but in a recent speech - what would you do? You are, of course, interested, as you say the pollutants and you are showing your sensitivity to the issue of climate change in your Government. Also, in a contradictory way, Mr Tsipras meets Mr Trump, who withdrew the US from the Climate Agreement, but he does not mention anything, even about our country's positions on climate change issues. In addition to EUR 2 billion that charged the country with F-16, he did not make a reference to a crucial issue, which Macron also mentioned in the previous days, when the conference was held in Paris, with a strong criticism of Mr Trump. Absolutely nothing about climate change at the level of overall government policy and international relations! So, abroad, fish silence, in the inner dance of handfulness, inadequacy, inconsistency, inconsistencies, with crowns of leadership, innovation, reforms, investment. At this point I would like to remind you of our national position on climate change and our country's commitments towards the Energy - Climate Change framework, ahead of 2030: 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, a national target for 30% introduction of renewable energy sources into the energy balance, 30% compulsory energy savings mainly through buildings, 100% introduction of smart meters to household electricity consumption, and finally by 2030 we have a 100% electrical interconnection of all Greek islands with the mainland. In many of these, for example, you have delayed the electrical interconnection. I heard you mention some of these goals. I think that all five objectives continue to be the objectives of our country, of course, national targets, as they have been set and continue over the years. Of course, you must prove that in practice too. All this is happening in a wider, wider environment, to which I referred earlier, where hopes for clean exit from the crisis continue, while applying a policy with which the crisis is deepening. Overtaxation has a negative effect on all policies and all fields. And in this field. Everywhere! On what clean exit your Government is talking about, when we are basically continuing to be the exception throughout the European Union, when we have committed our country with primary surpluses of 3.5% by 2022 and when the only objective of your government's economic policy is to overcome this objective and over 3.5%, to strangle the citizens, the middle class and the households, to then divide one of the ten into allowances. This is not an economic policy and it is not a sustainable economic policy. And, of course, you cannot negotiate the reduction of the primary surplus targets when you achieve and want as the only goal to achieve 4% -5%. You cannot go to a negotiation and say that these objectives are not sustainable. If you go, of course you say so! Because you've been involved in the Ministry of Development, really, here needs answers. Can we also see in other issues how society lives? Based on the latest data from EUROSTAT, 22.4% of the Greek population lives in a state of poverty when the corresponding figure in the European Union is 7.5%, I repeat according to EUROSTAT. This has not yet been implemented with the new measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u78	Did SYRIZA do this, Mr. Theocharopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u79	SYRIZA enlarged it, dear colleague. And because you also belong to the 'green component', as you want to refer to the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, I would really like an answer from you, from this component, in relation to the energy sector and what it does. Because by accepting all what is being done in PPC and all that is being done in the energy sector, it does not substantially honour green policy, which needs to be horizontal in all policy areas. The removal of inequalities, social cohesion, the reduction of poverty and unemployment can only be at the heart of a progressive policy. This is not because there is no sustainable development plan, productive reconstruction that has been prepared, presented and implemented. In this national sustainable development and productive reconstruction plan, today's debate would play a catalytic role. This is exactly what we are discussing today. Because when we say a national sustainable development plan, we also mean those areas that we are discussing today. That is why I come back to the bill we are discussing today for energy communities. It is an institution that has had excellent results in specific countries, such as Belgium, Denmark, Germany, France, Spain, for many decades. We have no mood of sterile criticism on this matter, which I think we have proved. Questions are being asked as Opposition and you are obliged as Government to answer these questions. Is this the bill in the right direction? It is, in fact, because the vision of the future decentralised energy system with core consumer producers' communities has the potential to implement and ensure the country's energy self-sufficiency in a visible future. Does he have any weaknesses? It has several weaknesses. It is a first step, but mistakes must be corrected from the beginning, otherwise they are perpetuated. And this bill includes a number of ministerial decisions and joint ministerial decisions that in fact suspend its implementation for the future. And in this bill there are considerable ambiguities. For example, the possibility of promoting and conventional sources of energy from energy communities, the possibility of participating agricultural cooperatives in energy communities, the possibility of partnerships between energy communities with third parties. In addition, we see a horizontal application of provisions, without taking into account spatial, economic, population and geomorphological data, which demonstrates the lack of integrated energy planning in connection with its development footprint. In addition, we see a lack of support mechanism for citizens. How will citizens be informed of the creation of an energy cooperative? What will be the incentives for participation? Even the economic incentives envisaged are vague, general. It does not specify how the fields and areas of activity of an energy cooperative are chosen and how the required initial capital is accumulated, as is the need for education arising from the status of a citizen as a producer, a consumer. Such operations, however positive they may be, depend on the participation of society, and that is why education and training are needed. You also brought in the multi-project arrangement in the previous days for the Energy Exchange. You were right to do so, but here too, with a delay of three years. Another delay that has cost you and geopolitically - has been mentioned in the previous days - as we have been caught by other countries such as Turkey, Hungary and Bulgaria. In this respect, we would like to know whether and to what extent there is an interaction between energy communities with the Energy Exchange and to what extent is the need for information and education for citizens. Loaning is also an issue that should be resolved in general, but also for the municipalities in particular. Under existing legislation, in order to be able to borrow a municipality, it should not exceed 60% of its total revenue. Let us know if there's a database on which municipalities, on this basis, can also be who not. And municipalities are facing other problems. Although the municipality is allowed to participate in urban cooperatives, on the basis of '86 which has not been abolished by KALIKRATS', public administration makes another interpretation and forbids their participation in urban cooperatives. I think that the public administration is interpreting this issue in the committees, but what you are bringing does not solve the problem. You're the one who came to solve this. You should explain to us - and explain to us today - what your Government intends to do about this mistaken interpretation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I do not want to say anything about local land improvements for the rural economy. These have been analysed by our rapporteur, as has the irrigation costs which can be reduced by about half if they are exploited - and are not exploited - all these data with European programmes. Minister, we were struck by the provision of Article 16, which was mentioned to you in committee, for the EUR 400,000 - I think, for 2018 alone, by the conversion made - by direct assignments, from EUR 135,000 and below each. Why? This is not just a question of drawing up a study, but about how society and the political system perceives the transition to a decentralised energy system. And, of course, this cannot be done directly. You were told by the committees that the studies in the previous years from the Ministry, RAE, PPC, GREENPEACE and CAPE have been carried out at zero cost. You replied to the committees, as I see it, that if there were any other possibilities, we would normally proceed to the tender. Are delays leading, in other words, to the lack of competitions where direct awards are due? Of course, what are these 'other possibilities' to which you refer in order to proceed not to direct awards, but to tender? And you are referring, of course, - if I am not mistaken - to the Independent Public Procurement Authority, which you are referring to, but which refers to instruments and the principles of transparency and to the regulation that it seems to introduce a derogation with a risk of confusing the applicable law. However, it notes, above all, that the relevant law enables the time-limits to be shortened. So the urgency of the matter and the resulting need for direct delegation is considerably limited. All of this needs answers. Of course, there are also key aspects of this framework, such as smart meters, the electrical interconnection of the islands, the 'Explore at home' programme - which you have announced more than ten times, but still remains in communications - and many others that are still pending. The benefits, ladies and gentlemen, from turning the energy policy are numerous, both in terms of strengthening local economies and creating new jobs and in terms of combating energy poverty. Our concern, however, lies in your ability to implement this vision, facilitate citizens' participation through appropriate education and information and through increased and concrete financial instruments. In conclusion, there is a need for national planning, consultation and consultation at work and coordination of all stakeholders and, above all, removal from obsession. That is why the present government has not persuaded us, which is once again a slap and affliction, while at the same time rejecting the exploitation of existing knowledge and experience. The intentions are judged by the result and the result in most cases of the government is disappointing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u80	Thank you. Mrs Vayonakis has the floor, and then Mr Dendias. We will continue with more speakers, as the parliamentary representatives are not here. Here, Mr. Vagonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill we are debating, in my opinion, is one of the most important draft laws of this government, which have been passed so far. And I'm explaining why: It has a great deal to do with how our party perceives the issue of the country's productive reconstruction. It has a strong environmental footprint, because it helps to change the energy mix in favour of clean energy and to promote the objectives they have, set both at European Union and country level. It has a strong social footprint, since energy communities are urban cooperatives with the sole aim of promoting the social and solidarity economy and innovation in the energy sector, dealing with energy poverty and requiring synergy between individuals, groups, self-government at local level. I also consider it important that, although more than two thousand similar ventures are currently operating at European Union level, it is the first time that, from what we have heard, institutionally, energy communities are promoted by a law. However, what I consider to be the most important of this bill is the fact that it is the government's response to the reasonable demand that has been putting the movement against the BAAP for years. So, for the first time with this draft law, the Ministry of Environment and Energy introduces energy democracy, enabling citizens, local bodies, municipalities and regions and local small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in energy planning through energy production, disposal and savings. Citizens and bodies have a dual role to play, as consumers and as energy producers. The prerequisite is to create synergies and partnerships between local actors and citizens within the energy community. Through the bill it attempts to: Firstly, the emergence and enhancement of locality. Locality is a dominant element in the bill since it seeks to produce added value from local communities themselves and for local communities. Local planning and projects take account of local needs and specialities. It is also foreseen that at both citizens and institutions level 50% plus one of the participants should belong to the place where the energy community is active. Secondly, it is attempting to strengthen synergies - partnerships - that is, cooperation between citizens, local authorities and small and medium-sized enterprises. Ensuring equality between the actors involved is crucial so that they all have equal rights in decision-making. That is why one vote is foreseen for each member, irrespective of the cooperative shares that each has. And here, however, there is a ceiling of 20%, with the exception of the LAGs, which can participate up to 40% and 50% for the island regions. Also important is the fact that energy communities are non-profit-making. With regard to these profits, they remain in the energy community and are available for purposes decided by the general assembly, for example, in actions to address energy poverty to vulnerable consumers or citizens below the limits of poverty, regardless of whether they are members of the energy community. Energy communities can be profitable, but under conditions such as if the members of the energy community are at least fifteen and ten for an island municipality, and if 50% plus one of them are natural persons. The bill is also described as the main activities to which the energy community can turn, such as production, storage, self-consumption, sale of electricity or heat from RES, management of raw materials for energy, biomass or biogas - I think this is very important for farmers and farmers - the supply of electricity or natural gas to final customers, etc. The bill also provides for a number of incentives to support energy communities. I would also like to say about the debate that has taken place on the subject of the amendment, which has been tabled and on the arrangements for the area of Western Macedonia and Megalopolis. Some people talked about feasibility. Those who have visited these areas must admit that they have suffered a great deal of environmental costs. I think it is fair to regulate this, not to say that it should have been done a long time ago. Ladies and gentlemen, as in consultation, this bill meets broad acceptance. The truth is, of course, that in time it coincided after the debate on the multi-brand plan which monopolized the news. However, the fact that the lights of publicity did not enlighten the debate of this bill deprive him of any meaning. I hope she will find the way to get where she needs and to those who expect it. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u82	Thank you. Mr Dendias has the floor as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy and we will then be on the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u83	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the question of politics, but also the law, which I am doing, are particularly stressful things, and that is why it is particularly soothing, perhaps healing, to listen to the suggestions made by the Minister, Mr Stathakis, who is transmitting a peaceful boat to an idyllic lake or something like that! It is too - very soothing, Minister. We'll keep it up, we'll hear you. On the other hand, I would like to point out that I was impressed by the majority of my fellow Members, who in every piece of legislation have the tendency to see - you will forgive parallelism - in eulogy! They attach values and importance to the dead who, if he lived, would not pay himself. We have heard about 'the most important piece of legislation', about things and wonders! What's this about? This is a use of an existing legal form of urban cooperative, and even simplified use. If one reads the provisions, there is not a great deal of room for manoeuvre in the existing legal framework - let us not be fooled - which gives us an extra opportunity. There's no objection to that. What would judge the seriousness of the project - I think was spoken by the rapporteur and our own diligent rapporteur, Mr Skreka, and by Mr Maniotis earlier, who has an experience in the Chamber in this matter - would be whether it was accompanied by a detailed operational implementation plan. Something like that doesn't go with it. I did not see it developed in the debate or in the committee or now in the wording of the recommendation. On the contrary, Mr Minister, let us say Article 11 on economic incentives, I do not think it says much about it. In fact, paragraph 7, which deals with the amount of the guarantee letter, etc., shows that it is probably trying to provide financial support for the project by the guilty, without having precedented a serious economic plan for what can be done. And so you don't get away from the usual tradition of SYRIZA legislation, let's go to Article 16. Is there not too much rousphetti and contentment and illegality, unconstitutionality in the law? That's too bad! Isn't it a shame to have such a nice tradition that it was consistently built all this time? Why don't we get a direct assignment for four hundred thousand inside the law? To God! That's four hundred thousand. We are three years in government, now we are caught by violence, and we urgently need to regulate something directly! That's the usual. And, of course, so as not to leave the other tradition of the amendment, there is also the amendment to you. And Mr Screkas directly told you that the amendment is handy. The simple fact that the amendment is rough, Mr Minister, is shown by the simple fact that it comes as an amendment. If your legislative will were serious, it would be within the legislature. We have no objection to the principle of strengthening these geographical areas. We understand that. But if you had worked it seriously, you wouldn't have brought it for a year. Your argument about the annual budget absolves the entire legislative work. Then all the legislation should have one year and at the end of the year we would have voted again. However, the budget for a year is. You know that. But this is where your old trade union nature prevails and you are forced to give us an excuse, which you imagine if we have already taken a syrup, we will accept! On the other hand, I must tell you and it seemed to me that it was said - and it was well said - that your Government had no significant history of taking environmental protection initiatives. None! I do not want to recall the issues relating to the protection of Saronics, for which your own inaccurate government uncertainties led to a huge risk of destruction of the whole Attica beach towards the Saronic. And neither responsibility nor politics has been given to anyone. An accident occurred under the ideal conditions of confrontation, an absolute nanny of the sea, only nine metres deep, just next to the seat of the competent body to deal with the problem, and yet you managed to contaminated the whole coast of Attica. As, too, your presence in the United States was very well observed. Is that possible? The Prime Minister had the opportunity, speaking with President Trump, to reiterate his permanent European position - and he would not be the first to repeat it - on the protection of the environment and on the issues of climate change - I say again - the European Union's consistent position and the condemnation of the withdrawal from the relevant treaty signed in Paris, which President Macron directly told him. And right away he said to him, without ruining relations. Because everyone, however peculiar it may be, appreciates the sincere and stable interlocutor, not the elephant, who is simply offended for any reason. All you have done in the United States - and you were right to say that - is to testify to the Greek taxpayer's laxity for the modernisation of the F-16. Now don't tell us here about protecting the environment if you're kind. Don't tell us that. And, by the way, if you want to come back to issues of land-use legislation at some point, we should do that too. But, Minister, I will take the opportunity of closing another disagreement between us on the issues of first residence. Because the President of Parliament yesterday did not give me the opportunity to do so. Respectful. Let us also get to it and close it down. What was there before your days, that is, on our own government? There was v.4224/2013. What was n.4224/2013? A law providing horizontal protection at the first residence without legal access - I repeat, without legal access - under specific conditions. In other words, 35,000 euros income plus 200,000 euros value, plus the possibility of other real estate. Together about 300,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u84	When was this abolished?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u85	This has not been abolished. End 31-12/2014. So we're coming. The government then changed in January 2015. Don't tell us why we didn't legislate in a pre-election period, so you can tell us we're plundering.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u86	Is that why you didn't grant an extension?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u87	Now let's go see what you've got. I understand that the Minister presenting himself may...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u88	You left them unprotected, not to say you plunder?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u89	And you're protecting them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u90	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u91	I am pleased to wake you a little, contrary to the original ministerial report. So the acting Minister comes, with Law No.4346/2015, the Stathakis law, as he wishes, which amends another legal framework. He ignores the question of self-righteous protection of the first home, forgets it, does not exist, enters the Katselis law, which has completely other preconditions and other considerations, and that is where he already restricts the Katseli law. And what's he doing? He says no. I want EUR 1,347 income and EUR180,000 value, plus the requirements of the Katseli Act. That's what she does. So if we had a protection range, let's assume a hundred, it keeps the protection range at thirty. And he comes and tells us 'no, I establish the first residence'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u92	Seventy. We had counted it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u93	'No, I protect the first residence'. It is not true what he says and knows it very well, of course, as you know it and those who bothered to read the legislation. So let's turn it off. You did not protect the first residence, if you wish, to be perfectly precise, in the range protected by the previous government. You have reduced her to very much the protection of her...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u94	You don't know them and you lose them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u95	Also, the piece of legislation you have, has the usual systolic wickedness. When does it end? It expires on 31-12-2018. What's the point? As soon as the New Democrat Government comes in to load the problem on her! The usual.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u96	That's what you did. We won't!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u97	We've closed this loose end, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u98	We'll close it soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u99	Next time we talk about the other issues we have disagreed, namely the uses of land and what you have done and how you have done it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u100	You can tell us the environmental protection measures you have taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u101	I would like the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Minister wants the floor. Please soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u103	Just a minute, Minister, let me sit down and listen to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u104	Sit down, because you're getting into the issues you're so wrong about, and I wonder why you insist. Katseli Law. One of the prisoners. Protection of temporary, horizontal and Ministerial Court of Hatzidakis. Do we agree? Good. The Katseli law is judicial protection which regulates the overlaps of the household. The judge says: From this point on, you will pay this or do this, etc., and he commits. Your provisional arrangement was a horizontal measure, which was not renewed at the end of 2014. And he had two criteria. Income of 36,000...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u105	It was 37,000. Go cut the little bit you can!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u106	The other criterion was the objective value.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u107	How much?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u108	It was 200,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u109	What about the other fortune?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u110	So your temporary horizontal law is changed by our own intervention, we legislate in 2015, with a single law, an amendment of the Katseli law. And we add. We use the same criteria, yours, that is 36,000 for the four-member and objective value of the property.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u111	At the property you put 180,000 objectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u112	We put 200,000 on it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u113	We add to the law of Katseli, the free professionals they weren't. We add the former traders, who were not, that is, those who lost control.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u114	All the loans?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u115	All loans and tax and insurance debts. So we're doing these three big sections. So we bring the concept of the overdue household to its real dimension not only housing but all debts. So we have full and universal protection, since...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u116	Judicial protection. The extrajudicial doesn't exist, you forgot her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u117	You forgot her!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u118	Let me finish. You're in a hurry. One more step and I'll finish with the next step. Now let's go to the fifth innovation we've made. The fifth innovation says: The households under 18,000 euros - that is, we are protecting nearly 70% - are claiming, and the payment of its loan to the bank is made by the Greek State, the state budget, with whatever regulation is made. So the poorest part not only has first home protection, but it also has the 100 million that is in the budget of the Greek state to pay for a period of time its instalments. This is called full, universal protection and support for anyone threatened by this story.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u119	You put the word 'court' to remove 'full'?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u120	What are you looking for? You made a gray policy based on a post and a newspaper that today recognized that he was wrong. And you finally recognized - thank you very much - that until 31-12-2018 not only is fully protected, but also an example I told you to bring me, you didn't bring it to me. It'll take years to bring it to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Papaliou has the floor for seven minutes. There are several speakers who have to go to committee at 2 o'clock at noon. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u122	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, because of locality, I will start with the amendment. The amendment provides that aid is granted to domestic consumers of environmentally liable areas from lignite production. The introduction of this special environmental invoice, this deduction to electricity accounts is a move of justice and in no case a move of feasibility - as the opposition parties claim - towards the inhabitants of areas that have contributed the maximum to electricity and energy policy in the country and have suffered multiple charges. The state, even late years, comes to alleviate some of the adverse effects on the inhabitants of these regions. The adverse effects concern the installation, activities and the environment. Because, Minister, it's not just the environment. I would say, however, that the content of this amendment also contains an injustice. In the areas covered by this special invoice, only the Municipality of Megalopoli is included and not the wider area of Megalopoli and in particular the Prefecture of Arcadia. In the areas for which this special invoice will apply, the entire region of Western Macedonia is included not only the individual energy municipalities, the municipalities of Kozani and Georgia in Kozani, Florina and Amyntheos in Florina or the counties in which PPC is located, which also create environmental burdens directly, such as the Prefectures of Kastoria and Grevenes, where they are not established. Unlike the Peloponnese and especially Arcadia, only the Municipality of Megalopolis is included. In this case, we have a different basis for introducing this specific invoice. This is, I would say, an unequal treatment, when in fact the disadvantaged, problematic poor and marginalised Arcadia law as a whole has offered and continues to offer significant energy policy in the country. One further reason why the Arcadia Prefecture is subject to the special invoice I think is the fact that the lignite plants of Megalopolis have been included in the deinvestment planning - which means that they are sold to individuals - with wider social and economic implications in the Arcadia Prefecture. I have made it my position on this matter, I have expressed it on several occasions, I do not have to repeat it. I'll talk to you when the bill comes to the House about the end of February from what I hear. I therefore think, Minister, that the inclusion of the Arcadia Prefecture as a whole in the specific reduced tariff beyond the fairness of the request is also a contribution to alleviating the consequences of the economic crisis for a prefecture, I repeat, disadvantaged, who has suffered a particular environmental burden. Let's come to the bill now. The draft law introduces the institutional framework for the establishment and operation of energy communities. It takes into account proposals for Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in electricity and on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable energy sources. The use of energy resources, the transition to clean energy forms is a necessity, which also creates opportunities for the democratisation of energy planning and at the same time the creation of sustainable jobs in the energy sector. Energy communities are state-of-the-art cooperatives to promote social solidarity, innovation in the energy sector, address energy poverty, promote energy sustainability and strengthen energy self-sufficiency. Not to seek profit, energy communities have the main objective of diffusing the benefit to their members, as well as strengthening the role of citizens and local actors in the energy sector. The main policy areas on which the operation of energy communities and the overall strategy for the use of energy resources and related productive activity are the strengthening of locality, democratic governance, decentralisation of the participation of citizens, strengthening partnerships and synergies. As a result of the creation and operation of energy communities, tariffs will be reduced, further penetration of RES and the use of available energy market tools. In the context of maintaining locality two key elements are that preconditions and minimum limits are set for the relationship between the members of the energy communities and the place where they are located. Secondly, there are restrictions on the percentage of cooperative shares that members of energy communities can hold in order to avoid altering their cooperative character. I will not go into other details. In conclusion, the bill aims to support innovation, to improve energy efficiency, to enhance the penetration of RES and self-production, to increase the local acceptance of RES projects, to reduce energy costs for households and small and medium-sized enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this bill is also a cut-off, an important tool in the country's socially fair productive reconstruction, which is being promoted on the basis of a new production model, since innovative logic and practices are being introduced in the production and development of renewable energy sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u123	Thank you. The Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Bored, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u124	Madam President, with your permission and without having the feeling that I am in breach of the procedure, because the debate has been widened, you will allow me to refer to a matter of warm political topicality, a very important matter of foreign policy, such as Skopje, because I believe that those who lived in the 1990s, from any point of view, the sad and background of those days, have no right to remain silent. So, what did we live on? We have experienced an important, vital issue of foreign policy, of intra-government controversy, of becoming a vehicle for political careers, and all this has led to a national defeat, and to an open wound, which is like this today that we are talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the adventure of Skopje did not begin in Bucharest. As much as Bucharest was an important moment, then the Skopje did not start then, as the Chief of Police would like to convince us. It had started a long time ago and I wonder if, in fact, the current Chief of Officerial Opposition heard something from his father and former Prime Minister about what happened at the time and we were led where we were, in a failure to exploit ideal conditions and impose power-driven solutions. So what has led to this defeat and the statement 'doesn't matter, after 15 years, will nobody remember the matter'? What issue? What we are seeing today in front of us and are being called upon to deal with it. I would like to ask you on this. Has Mrs. Bakoyannis heard anything about the killer? And what exactly is it that he's heard? Allow me here to refer to the pollsters, the pollsters who cut minced meat in the presence of the client. That's what's happening and not just now. And what are they doing? They do telephones, says, research and ask the general question to the Greek citizen, whether he likes or agrees to include the word "Macedonia" within the name, while the question and the risk is one and only one. As is happening now after the recognition of more than 40 countries or a complex name with a geographical identification against all as the national position was? And the other question is: Do we want a fearful enclosed Greece, isolated, to live with myths away from shaped realities? Nearly thirty years they've been in. Which lesson did we learn? Here I have to say that I am surprised to see the Civic Opposition, after an initial standpoint, regressing towards the exploitation of emotions, which have been formed through historical misunderstandings, ignorances, prejudices, in essence, toddling efforts to find a solution. At this point I would like to say: responsible political leaders are not to follow but to lead the people where they themselves consider the solution right, to tell the whole truth to the Greek people, not to flatter the beliefs and misery we hear here in this House, which they have no precedent! Everyone has the right to have an opinion. However, I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, the philosophy of a referendum. Neither do I understand the unreserved nomenclature of trial in political gambling. If necessary, we should put it in the OPAP 'Boneboard', that is, what will be the new name... I do not understand this, because there is a visible risk that the monster dance will begin again and that we should give the opportunity to homicide, to measure its limits. Is that what we want? Is that what today's historic juncture demands? It's a historic opportunity. If one thinks that in the background he will agree, but at the forefront he will try to maximize the government’s deterioration, mistakes are deplorable. And those who call national defeat on this issue are, in fact, preparing for it. And don't baptize themselves with the idea that they'll serve powerful visions and if we get to failure, God finally has, after thirty years who remembers the Skopje issue again. I would like to say on this subject, without wishing to reduce the importance of an important innovative bill, which introduces democracy - I would say - in the production of energy, democracy in practice and enable individuals and collectives to become players; in this game all this is sufficient, Minister, to combine them with a good, if possible, and with a golden rule for good and functional placement, a placement that will not leave any scope for damage to the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, too. There is a request from Members who meet in committee to precede them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u126	May I speak now, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u127	You're also, Mrs. Kafantari, in committee, but you're not president. It's Mrs. Iglezi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u128	Then it's my turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u129	I want to make changes so you can be here without a problem. Mrs Igleze, who is the chairman of the committee, will be the lead. Then they will speak one - one of the members of the committee. Here, Mrs. Iglezi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am very grateful to both my fellow Members and my fellow Members for the concession of the series. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a draft law which is coming to confirm the fact that when we talk about the constant efforts we are making to change the country's productive model and to support the third pillar of the economy, the social economy, we mean it. It goes on to show that it is possible to implement an energy policy geared to the values of the Left and the ecology. This is because the bill we are voting on today introduces energy democracy and enables citizens, local operators, small and medium-sized local enterprises to participate in the energy transition to clean energy and energy planning. Through their direct involvement in energy projects with priority to those of renewable energy sources and savings, they become another important player in the process of active transition towards an energy mix of green and a less carbon economy, creating a new framework from current practice. The added value produced by the process of energy transition does not, therefore, affect society nor escape abroad. On the contrary, it remains in the country and not only do large energy multinationals but local communities enjoy it. Ladies and gentlemen, it has not been long since we voted in this Chamber on the Paris Convention on Climate Change. It is not too often that in dialogue, the necessity of transition to clean energy forms has emerged, and the opportunities that this process demonstrates. Climate change is not the fantasy of some, but the reality with which we and the next generations will have to be measured. The Paris Agreement and the European directives also place tasks in our country in the direction of rehabilitation of fossil fuels and transition to a zero-carbon economy, which we must tackle with real actions, actions involving society in energy planning, deepening the democratisation of the energy model, while at the same time creating sustainable jobs and promoting innovation, taking into account all social, environmental and economic conditions. Energy policy is designed to meet social energy needs. This is why local energy production and consumption are promoted as well as the linkage of the place of production to that of consumption. Therefore, the criterion of decentralisation and the possibility for citizens, local bodies, small businesses to have energy autonomy, provides more supplies to deal with energy poverty. It is expected that energy communities will be a reduction in tariffs, further penetration of RES, as well as the use of available energy market tools, such as energy netting, virtual energy netting and smart meters. I would like to set an example in order to better understand the importance of today's legislation. If three OTAs want, they can create an energy community in order to install a photovoltaic system or even a wind turbines, so that by applying virtual energy netting of electricity produced, they can support the energy need of citizens living below the poverty line. I think it is clear that through synergies and the activation of local society, energy transformation is possible to involve society in energy planning and address the phenomenon of energy poverty. Energy communities are urban cooperatives for the sole purpose of promoting the social and solidarity economy and innovation in the energy sector. The third pillar of the economy can work dynamically to promote energy sustainability, produce, store, self-consumption, distribution and supply of energy, strengthen energy self-sufficiency - security in island municipalities and improve energy efficiency in the final use at local and regional level. The arrangements provided for each member to have the right to vote, ensure the democratic nature of the energy communities and contribute to the deepening of cooperation. Colleagues and colleagues, I think society is ready and waiting for this kind of legislation from a modern parliament, which takes environmental and energy challenges seriously into account in a transparent, participatory and democratic context. I think that the Greek society will respond, creating synergies to ensure its energy needs, without undermining the sustainability of future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u131	Thank you for the brief. Mrs Kafantaris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Madam President. We are discussing a bill - cut, as has been described, which Greek society has been awaiting for too long. I would say that it should have been voted on a long time ago. However, we also see and I will have to say a few things and respond to some of the issues that have been heard here from the standpoint of Anti-Population, which instead of actually talking about this bill, which it considers to be positive, has given other dimensions to today's debate. Of course I understand both the anguish and the concern of the Anti-Population and especially of the Officerial Response, because the evaluation has also been closed and the Greek economy is going better. We have a long way to go, of course. But that is not an estimate made by SYRIZA, it is an estimate made by the markets themselves and markets themselves as well as by bond rates and by a number of economic indicators which cannot be called into question. We cannot question that in 2017 it was closed with 4 billion foreign investments. We cannot question the increase in exports, the economic climate index, which is the highest of the three years in the first ten months and the small GDP growth by 1.3% in the third quarter. So opposition is annoyed. I would also like to mention the NSRF and the Yunker package, but I do not want to say any more, because I respect the time. I would say, however, that because of this embarrassment, they are reintroduced by the Opposition and, above all, by the Civic Opposition themselves, which have been responded to both the committees and the plenary. For PPC, I'll ask a question. We have committed ourselves - and you are well aware - and as the Committee on Production and Trade, to holding a special meeting. The Minister has accepted. He said so today too. I'll ask you one question, because you repeat the same thing. Are we in the European Union? Do we accept it? Do we agree? Do we need to implement specific policies in the energy sector, which we know very well what that means? Anyway, for the 40% of the lignite we heard again today, and so on, they are judgments of the European Court of Justice. Indeed, it speaks of PPC’s dominant position in lignites. We've been through this. I won't answer any more. I'll see you in the committee. We have also heard today say: 'What have you done for climate change? What did that government do?’ I'll say one thing. Climate change adaptation plan. Why so many years from previous governments and from previous ministers, say, has not happened? Of course, Mr. Maniattan who happens to be present, did he recognize - without wanting it? I do not know, and this shows the communication of the positions from the opposition - that in 2014 we were in less favourable budgetary conditions. So our country really goes forward. For the bill that we are discussing, the large consultation has ended in the summer, I think, and there has been a great and serious debate with institutions, NGOs, representatives from local government in the Committee on Production and Trade. Indeed, acceptance was great both by non-governmental organisations and by self-government. There were suggestions, corrections, because the government is listening. On the other hand, the CAPE, along with the Deposit and Loans Fund, is preparing a financial programme for legal entities governed by public law. I know that a number of businesses and the hotel are waiting for the bill to be passed on to energy communities, and I also know that I have read to be honest, that the Peloponnese Regional Council has also made a decision on energy community in the region. I won't say any more. We know that and it has been heard that Europe is very much ahead of us in this area. I mean, in time. That is, in 2015, we already had two thousand energy cooperatives. In fact, since the beginning of the last century, producer cooperatives have been in Germany and so on. So we are now coming to legislate on this. And it was heard by the Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Tindemans, that 'Agreements between urban partnerships existed, an institutional framework existed, etc.' Yes, however, there are two important issues which are laid down in this draft law: firstly, the localisation of the localisation that we are talking about, which exists in specific articles. And secondly - and very importantly - one vote is introduced, irrespective of the cooperative shares and shares in the energy community held by one. And this shows the very important, the basic philosophy, the safeguarding of energy democracy. It's a very important thing. Why are we bringing this draft law? I said before that it could have happened faster. The reasons are as follows: climate, climate change, our country's commitments, the need to move about with regard to the energy landscape to other forms of pan-European, the change in energy mix at the expense of fossil fuels and the promotion of RES, the objectives of the Paris Agreement and the objectives, of course, set by the European Union, the energy democracy we have said before, the participation of local societies on the basis of specificities and the need to decentralise energy production. Here, of course, it is very important that the viral net metering, the virtual energy offsetting of energy produced, which can, in fact, help vulnerable groups, because we know that not only in our country - which is still in crisis and is in a better state of exit - is a matter of energy poverty and is a matter that has been centrally raised by the European Union in the face of energy poverty. That is, energy communities from municipalities, from local government through this process can help weak families in the area to the heating part. And, of course, the very important, and necessary today, are synergies, partnerships in local government. That's not a small thing at all. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I would like to say about Article 16, which concerns long-term national energy planning. It is very important that within 2018 it will be completed. After all, we are also bound by the Energy Union governance regulation for this, for the national energy planning plan. The objectives of the European Union are energy security, the energy market, energy efficiency policies, the carbonisation we have said before, innovation and competitiveness. I am pleased and I believe that what the Minister said will be observed, that for national energy planning there will be a thorough and important dialogue with the actors in society, but, of course, within Parliament, with the committees, with the plenary, so that we can have the best possible result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u133	Mrs Theleritis, who is in the position of Mrs Karasarlidou, has the floor, since she has to attend a committee. Mrs Aylonitou will then speak - to know - the Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, Mr Amyras. Here, Mrs. Welleritis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to stress that the specific draft law we are debating today does not constitute an ad hoc and individual intervention. It is part of a national integrated long-term energy strategy. It is a strategy that incorporates the European Union's guidelines for the transition to a clean energy future by strengthening the share of renewable energy in the national energy mix. At the same time, it is also part of our national strategy for the creation of a solidarity social economy. As mentioned above by the previous speaker, the fact that climate change prioritises the implementation of measures that decouple economic growth from emissions of pollutants, is a common place for any modern intervention aimed at promoting energy sustainability and energy self-sufficiency. Greece has natural resources. With them, therefore, its natural resources for clean energy production on the islands and on the continent, it has the potential to pursue a consistent and ecologically responsible energy policy, to ensure its energy self-sufficiency in the near future and relatively very soon. The benefits of switching the energy orientation are many in terms of strengthening local economies, creating new jobs and fighting energy poverty, which is currently facing an important part of our society. As I said, in our second strategy, which is the creation of a solidarity between the social economy, the pioneering framework is the institutional framework introduced for the establishment and operation of the energy communities and which has multiple targets. For example, it promotes the social and solidarity economy in the energy sector, tackles energy poverty, promotes energy sustainability, strengthens energy self-sufficiency and security in island municipalities and improves energy efficiency in final use at local and regional level. In fact, because energy communities are urban cooperatives based on the basic principle of the diffusion of the benefit to members of the energy community and to local society, the main aim of this draft is to promote added value to local communities. This will be achieved by strengthening the role of civil society and local actors. Let us look at some examples of energy communities. Owners or tenants of a building can place photovoltaics. Residents, businesses and a municipality can create an wind park. A group of farmers can establish energy communities for the production of thermal and electrical energy from waste. A municipality, local businesses and residents can create a district heating station. A group of farmers or rural enterprises can build a high-efficiency cogeneration of electricity and heat in an area with a natural gas network etc. Also, with the establishment of energy communities, citizens, local government agencies and local businesses are at the centre of the national and decentralised energy administration, which is being attempted by this government. At the heart of this decentralised energy system there are consumer producer communities that acquire and manage their energy autonomy responsibly. What does that mean? Alongside strengthening local participation and the possibility of initiatives by local communities. It also means that the institutional framework that we are discussing today will contribute to highlighting the dynamics of locality and space through concrete actions, partnerships, partnerships and also through the recording and resolution of local needs and particularities of each society. In particular, for island municipalities, energy communities will be an important solution and will support their energy self-sufficiency and security. The technological and economic difficulties of interconnecting the islands with the mainland are causing increased demand and thus higher costs especially in the tourist months. This will be resolved, it can be compensated for by exploiting their solar, wind and geothermal dynamics. That is why the draft law introduces special provisions and privileges for energy communities based on islands and small populations. It is also apparent that the aim of the government is to change the country's energy map. Let us go to renewable energy sources, reduce tariffs, ensure energy autonomy and in the most isolated areas, activate local societies and make use of available energy market tools such as energy clearing. Here, too, we can say that there are other financial instruments. So it's not a bill in the void, but it can also use tools such as development law, ESDP, ESF, etc. So with energy communities small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to reduce their energy costs, while simply private individuals in a building will be able to drastically limit their electricity bills. At the same time, regions and municipalities will finally be able to formulate an energy policy to deal with energy poverty. And that one underneath. In the context of maintaining the locality of energy communities, a number of conditions are laid down, i.e. minimum limits relating to the relationship between members and their place. Some safeguards for equality between stakeholders are also put in place. This is crucial for their functioning, because they have the right to take decisions within the energy communities, that is to say one vote for each member, regardless of the cooperative share it holds, and each member cannot have more than 20% of its participation in the co-operative capital. The exception is the Ottas, which can participate with 40% and 50% when they are Ottas of island regions with a population of less than three thousand. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done. Specifically for energy communities in which exclusively OTAs A and B are involved, part or set of surpluses of use may be available for actions of a local general interest related to the adequacy and supply of raw materials, fuels, water, such as the manufacture of water tanks, warehouses, refrigerators, food, medicines etc. In this way, local society benefits and local energy resources are exploited.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u135	Mrs. Theleritis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u136	Energy communities will also be able to use virtual energy offsetting, as mentioned above, which until now only concerned professions, such as exemplary farmers or legal persons governed by private law, seeking social benefits or other public interest purposes. Finally, these units will be given priority in licensing, they will pay reduced amounts of guarantee letters for entry in the register of participants, while at the same time they will enjoy terms of preferential participation or exemption from competitive tendering procedures, which are exempt from the special fee of 1.7%, when the government is particularly involved. These are motives. They are not financial instruments, such as previous ones, but they are incentives very seriously to promote energy communities. On the basis of all the above, this is now possible the new approach that exists, namely, decentralised production of energy that is becoming democratic by involving up to a precedent of excluded citizens from the energy transition process, highlights the locality through the production of added value in local communities and regional development, strengthens synergies and partnerships between productive operators - self-government - citizens, ensuring equality between stakeholders and protecting the environment with the energy transition to a coal-free economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u137	Mrs Aylonite, you have the floor. Those of you who are in a hurry to show it to the time you speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, starting with I couldn't help but notice that we are talking about a bill that the Parliamentary spokesman of the Democratic Alliance described as a serious bill, a bill relating to the democratisation of energy. So, in this very serious bill - the innovatory one, I, too - would add to this bill which demobilizes the energy sector I look at the list of MPs and I observe registered MPs twenty-four by SYRIZA, a MP from New Democracy, no MP from the Democratic Incorporation. The score, that is, is shaped as follows. SYRIZA: 24. New Republic: 1. Democratic Incorporation: 0. How, then, can the Opposition cover the nakedness of its arguments? Raising a lot of dust, making a lot of noise, buzzing things. So, while responsible for the country's bankruptcy, they do everything they can, they make every effort to undermine everything that is being done for the development and prospect of exiting the country from the crisis. So, now in today's bill: 'Energy Communities and other provisions', we see that the bill adapts Greek legislation firstly to the newer technological data in the energy sector, while emphasising the need to address climate change and the need for rational economic management. For over a century it has been a common place that electricity has been a rational way of addressing the energy needs of a country and that electricity generation has had huge economies of scale, that is, it has contributed from as large as possible to the thermal power plants. This was true, despite the significant losses in the long-distance transport of electricity. However, as renewable energy has been developing over the last few decades and with the years reducing their cost of production, so that technological paradoxes tend to become an economically viable alternative to energy, old distribution data are no longer fully valid. It may be economical for the energy produced by lignite plants in Ptolemais to be transferred to Athens, since the economies of scale at production cost compensate for the losses of transport, but a corresponding distance of electricity from renewable energy sources would obviously be inconsistent. Technology, therefore, creates situations where production is economically likely to be close to consumption. There is, in fact, a precedent in this development: solar water heaters who entered our lives in the 1970s. There, energy production was even closer to consumption, as each consumer became a producer. Then, the legalisation of the discount on the cost of installing solar water heater from taxable income led in a few years to the installation on our roofs of the equivalent of a large thermal power plant that neither pollutes nor requires imported fuel. Today the scale of renewable energy applications is not always offered for a separate installation at home. However, it is ideal to meet the energy needs of small or medium-sized consumer communities. So today's bill creates the legal framework for the creation of small and medium-sized energy communities, promoting the best use of the technological potential of the time. The legal form of the urban cooperative of Law 1667/1986 is chosen with the necessary amendments, because we want the benefit of the application of these technologies to go to the consumer. Here it is important to remember the lesson of solar water heaters, where the fact that the consumer was directly benefited also led to the rapid adoption of innovative technology. Local government agencies are given the opportunity to take a special role in this effort, especially in small and remote communities, the municipality and the region are expected to play a key role in taking such a system forward. I particularly emphasise the importance of energy communities in small non-interconnected islands, where the whole island is a natural energy community. Natural persons are, of course, foreseen to be involved in energy communities, but the term of locality comes in, since a private person must either be a citizen or own property in the region. First of all, energy communities are defined as non-profit-making by profits not to be distributed, but to concentrate on the reserve available to fulfil the objectives of the energy community. In other words, energy users will not benefit as investors or entrepreneurs, but as consumers. This does not mean that the private business initiative does not have a place in the development of renewable energy sources, but especially the shape of the energy community has another objective and operates in the logic of the consumer cooperative. An exception to this principle may be made if the members of the cooperative exceed 15 - or 10 in the island municipality - and are mostly natural persons. In other words, the prospect of the energy community gaining a cooperative business is left open, but the cooperative nature is always maintained, since each member represents one vote, regardless of the cooperative share it holds. So we see that the bill does not only introduce flexibility into the adoption of technology, but also innovates the introduction of cooperative social economy relations. I consider this bill to be a pioneer for Greek data, and of course I am voting for it in principle and on the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, too. Now Mr Amyras, the Parliamentary spokesman from the Potami, has been speaking for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say, my dear fellow Member, who has just come down from the Step, that it is not always safe to indicate how many Members of the different parties are registered to speak, because at times this argument can be brought back to your expense. For example, let us remember a few months ago, in the spring of 2017, when the tail of the Tsipras - Kammenos Memorial was voted on, for example, which predicted that from 1-1-2019 all pensions will be reduced up to 18% or that duty-free will fall to 5,200 euros, how many SYRIZA Members were registered to speak at that time! You know, dear colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u141	How many people have subscribed to this?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u142	So, in what was a barbaric bill that had cutbacks, you unfortunately hijacked most. If I am not mistaken - and disprove me, we will find it, of course - they were registered to speak or two or three of the members of the SYRIZA. So the argument about participation in the public debate sometimes turns boomerang. However, I accept - and I really agree with you - that Members should also welcome them, such as this and the unpleasant ones to take the floor, because it is their obligation to the citizen. In any case, I shall refer to the draft law. I, too, find it positive and we will vote for it, but tell me, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, this: when the country continues to move without its long-term national energy planning that should have been completed for many years - I remind you that the energy sector has been liberalised since 1999, we are 20 years later and the country has no road map on how to rehabilitate from lignite - how, as we say, we will move away from the coal economy and come to renewable energy sources. How will you deal with energy poverty? You have to record her first and then start trying against her. Also, how will you promote innovative technologies when this design I'm telling you does not exist? This design is not a theoretical construction. All countries have. Our country is obliged by its European commitments to draw up this energy planning. I would really like the dear Mr Stathakis to tell me at what stage his training is. Furthermore, I would like to know what the legal texts are, so to speak, what the conclusions are, the Government's reports from its participation in the conferences on climate change. Let us not come to the words of the President of the energy regulator, Mr Bulaxis, in September 2017, who said clearly that the longer there is for this design in the field of energy and development, the more the investors are discouraged from coming to our country. And it is only natural that they do not have a stable tax framework so that they know how to move to long-term investments, prefer other countries. I shall now refer to the substance of the draft law, wanting to take you back ten years in a very nice story. In the summer of 2009, two peoples at the edge of the Mediterranean, different, celebrated. It was the Ikariots on the one hand and the inhabitants of the Spanish village and the island of El Iero on the other. Why were they celebrating? The European Union had approved funding for both islands, Ikaria and Spain, for the creation of a hybrid energy project which would be half hydroelectric, half wind. The Spanish and Ikariots celebrated both. Why? For the case of Ikaria this work was power - or should be -9.8 GW, it would be extremely limiting the use of oil in Ikaria, it would cover the needs of the island in current and would remove from the atmosphere - only from this work and Greek participation in the environmental footprint -13,800 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions each year. This was all done in 2009. We're coming to today. In 2014 the work in Spain was done and operated with huge success. In Greece, in Ikaria, we are in 2018 now and the project has been planted. Of the EUR 25 million that was the project budget, it has been set at EUR 43 million. And it's not over yet! The answer to my questions to PPC was that the project has been completed by about 80%. The Vice Mayor of Ikaria says it has been completed by 50%, that, that is, half is over. However, the point is that it has blocked an amazing investment, which has been and is funded by the European Union, because it has not become the main part of the project. And what do you say that is? The tanks? The complex technical and technological other tools? Oh, no. It is the 7.2 km municipal road that would connect - and should connect - the two tanks of the project. And there is an increased risk of flooding. So, ladies and gentlemen, I say: The Ikariots and through them the other Greeks, when will we celebrate the completion of an important step in a corner of Greece, in terms of the energy evolution of this island and of the country in general?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u143	By SYRIZA government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u144	You're very optimistic, Mr. Stathakis. So, how many years do you want to be a government to fix the project? Twenty? How many years do you want? How much do you get? How much? Because you have already entered the fourth year of governance and you have done nothing, but absolutely nothing on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u145	We haven't booked the third year yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u146	Do you have any further information? Tell me about it. For Ikaria, do you have any further information? You don't have one! Let the Minister tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u147	I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u148	Sure. I'd say the coolest-fun answer came from PPC. I kept asking myself about this for three years and listened to what he said: 'When the contract for the purchase and sale of energy for the hybrid-energy project Ikaria is signed, the operation of the wind park will be immediately started'. Like, 'My Doctor, I'm going to be all right'. "Yes, once you're cured, you'll be fine." That's what you're doing. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I promised to be brief. I wanted to tell you that there is a long distance between the laws that are passed in the House and the reality, which is impeccable. I wish this draft law - and with our vote - would be a step forward in the country's energy strategy. However, if you do not have the work of Ikaria and its hydroelectric and wind supply, all of this will be air words, not ours, what you tell us is that you are going to succeed through this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. You're consistent. Mr. Karastasis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill which one might call it the best of the Minister's bills, if the register were not lost, the largest of the major projects that had to have been done for many years in the bill. It refers to the crucial energy sector and it concerns both production and exploitation. It aims at promoting the social and solidarity economy and innovation in the energy sector, addressing energy poverty, promoting energy sustainability and innovation, in production, storage, self-consumption, distribution and energy supply, and improving energy efficiency in the end-user at local and regional level. In order to better understand the areas that the bill brings in this area, it is worth seeing the relevant landscape as it is shaped today. Today, therefore, our country, despite the wealth of its renewable energy sources, is significantly delaying their exploitation and exploitation. In the past, of course, there have been fragmentary interventions by the previous governments, through which occasionally investment opportunities relating to renewable energy have been presented, opportunities treated as a way of quickly income, without product production, without integration into a strategic framework for productive reconstruction, in many cases, opportunities for predator. These 'opportunities', of course, have resulted in environmental burden effects, tensions between investors - entrepreneurs and local societies, gas-industrial business actions and investment projects which often conserved. They had, in other words, all the pathogens that have been displayed by unplanned actions that promise easy and fast enrichment. I would remind you here of the two previous development laws, both PASOK and New Democracy, where the first development law has been much more geared to wind turbines, with the results we have. Both previous governments and improvised investors were therefore treated with a reasonable stock exchange 2000 and expectations of the horse racing type. As expected, they did not strengthen the labour factor, because, of course, no jobs were created, as I said before. This is also seen by the previous development law. And because the rapporteur of the New Democracy mentioned gas, they really can tell us how many cities in Greece have forced all residents to have the building permit through the General Building Regulation to build natural gas facilities for the last ten, fifteen years, without ever connecting them to natural gas, to how many cities have made an internal network for the last fifteen, twenty years, without being exploited? So the draft legislation is aimed precisely at treating these pathogens. It reflects our view of energy and the environment, according to which these are key pillars of development, of fair and long-term development. For us, ladies and gentlemen, energy and the environment are part of the development of a new different model of productive reconstruction, which is necessary to keep the country back on its feet in all areas. This model has at its core the issues and the principles of sustainable development, work, protection and respect for the environment, production of real product, as well as profitability that will return to the real factors of production activity, contrary to the post-war model of parasiticism against the labour and quality of life of citizens responsible for the country's current bad situation. With the model introduced by this bill, the role of local government and local communities is primarily upgraded, with the support of locality, decentralisation of production and resource utilization, while democracy is being introduced and consolidated in the production process. Energy communities are a form of an exclusive civil cooperative for which financial incentives and support measures are provided for in order to establish and develop it. The support measures concern, in particular, the development of power plants from renewable energy sources, of course aim for an economic benefit through the activities in the RES, the High Performance Co-production of Electricity and Heat (HSTH) -, the rational use of energy, the energy efficiency of sustainable transport, the management, demand and production, the distribution and supply of energy at both regional and local level. As a central objective, as I said before, the strengthening of the role of citizens and local actors in the energy sector is apparent. We therefore expect the dynamics in local societies to increase considerably towards the development of investment projects. We aim, through the new institutional framework, to promote the transition to decentralised, more efficient and innovative energy production and use solutions based on local participation and initiative. As a result of the regulations of the bill, consumers of energy at local level will be able to enjoy less costly services while supporting the local economy by increasing the business activity in the region and creating jobs. Moreover, given that the export of the institution of energy communities is part of the European Union's single climate change policy, the whole population is indirectly affected. Finally, this draft law gives particular attention and importance to a basic specificity of the country, the intense islandity. The concept of insularity refers to isolation and removal from the centre. Most of the islands in Greece today - mainly in the Aegean - have not been connected to the mainland electrical system until now because of mainly technical and technological difficulties that existed until now, but also because of economic difficulties. It is the political will of this government to make these islands - where it is economically and environmentally feasible - dependent on fossil fuels, but also to contribute to achieving national objectives through the implementation of new renewable power plants. For the above reasons, this draft law introduces specific provisions and privileges in respect of energy communities located in small islands, regardless of whether these islands are interconnected or not with the mainland system. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, energy communities are expected to allow the transition to decentralised, more efficient and innovative energy production and use solutions based on local participation and initiative. The development of the indigenous potential of RES - wind, solar, geothermal - and the improvement of energy efficiency is a central national energy target, as it contributes both to the diversification of the national energy mix and to the security of energy supply. At the same time, it also strengthens the development of the national economy by increasing the Gross Domestic Product and creating new jobs both directly and indirectly. It is a bill oriented on the future of our country and it is worth voting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u151	Thank you. Mrs. Vanja has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my position on the draft law we are debating today, I would like to make a comment on the legislation in itself. It is, in my opinion, an exemplary bill, which brings together the following positive features: it is small, it is absolutely targeted, it is clear, it is modern and it is also visionary. It is not only about the present, but above all about the future of the object that deals with and regulates energy. I would therefore like to congratulate the Minister and his colleagues, the authors, in essence, on this correct text. Let's actually go to the law. The bill composes three very important areas. The energy sector, the economic sector and society, is essentially aimed at a triple cumulative benefit. According to the Act, energy communities are defined as essential cooperatives aimed solely at promoting the social and solidarity economy through the use of the energy sector and innovation. In modern society, the dependence of man's daily life on energy is very high and this dependence, due to technological development, is growing almost by geometric progress. The bill first responds to this existing fear, the fear of energy poverty. Innovative, however, is that it introduces a completely different philosophy into the energy activities of the country. Production, storage, distribution and supply of energy ceases to be a privilege only of large corporate schemes. An active role is given to citizens, to bodies, to rural, forest, livestock cooperatives, to grades 1 and 2, as well as to small and medium sized enterprises of local society. All of these can work together for their mutual benefit, with the main limitation of locality. That is why 50% plus 1 of the members of the energy community are required to relate to the place where the seat of the energy community is situated and is active. Thus, the benefits of the activity are dispersed into the local society and act proliferationally in the local economy. The range of activities with which an energy community can deal covers almost all of the energy production process, but extends far beyond that. It concerns other types of actions, such as social actions, which are related to energy. Materials that are today a problem, such as organic residues and by-products from agricultural and urban activities, can be used. The provisions relating to the cooperative units of energy communities ensure democracy and equality between members. No member can raise more than 20% of the cooperative capital other than LAGs, who have the potential to play a more substantial role in the whole project. Regardless of the number of shares they have, all members shall participate in the general meeting with one vote. In addition, the draft law gives very important incentives and support measures to the energy communities so that they can begin their creation and survive, but of course they can be effective. In short, taking advantage of the opportunities given by this institution can contribute catalyticly to the following areas: Economic development in a region through the creation of new activities in energy production and consumption and the creation of new jobs. Environmental protection by further developing production from renewable energy sources. In support of vulnerable consumers, in order to limit the phenomenon caused by the unprecedented economic crisis in recent years and to stop having citizens who lack the valuable and just good, the fundamental good of energy. Ladies and gentlemen, in the energy sectors as a whole and especially from renewable energy sources, in the area of the use of natural resources, we have remained far behind as a country. Initially it was lightness, indifference, but above all it was the conscious choice of the previous governments not to conflict with very strong economic interests, monopolistic interests, which plunge the space. Then came the crisis and another precious time lost. The draft law under discussion, combined with recent laws such as the law on recycling and the law on forest cooperatives, create a different institutional environment that can be exploited by exploiting lost soil as well. This really is an innovative and flexible institution that can conditionally transform local societies and solve many problems. I'm talking about exploiting the land's mountainous and mountainous volume. I am talking about rural development by moving the population and of course I am talking about the environmental benefits that arise and are self-evident. I therefore call on all colleagues to vote in favour of this draft law and to help create a useful and effective law for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, too, for the time economy. Mr. Vettas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I think this was one of your most productive weeks. I think you also enjoyed the week of the debate on the Multifibre Arrangement. I mean the answers you've given mainly to the Civic Opposition for PPC. There are questions that return.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u155	What answers? He'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Screka, I'll answer you later. The draft law under discussion entitled ‘Energy Communities and other provisions’ of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is the implementation of local cooperation as an input to technological upgrading and entrepreneurship, which concerns the proper use of energy, which is a primary factor in the capacity and viability of the social system as a whole, as well as the objectives of this draft law. Two main concepts characterise the draft law, energy and the community, which now define a new operating system that is competitive and decentralised in the market. The relationship between the factors and functions of that system is described in those provisions and are mainly governed by the following. First of all, from the greatest degree of freedom in the establishment of cooperation in relation to existing cooperatives, in the provision of economic and institutional incentives to facilitate the access of new cooperation to the energy market, in the possibility of exploiting local morphological and physical characteristics for their energy use, in the utility to meet the energy needs of financially weak households in the spatial competence of the energy community, and lastly in the capacity of both helping newly developed enterprises and stabilising existing economic activities, as an environment is created to improve energy efficiency. We can therefore speak of energy as a product of consumers where its users, knowing the energy specificities of both demand and production, set a collective framework for energy projects, using the provisions of the bill as a tool. Of course, the concept of energy cooperative is particularly widespread in Europe. However, our country is currently innovating and creating an integrated legal framework, while at the same time establishing the enlarged body of energy communities, in which natural persons, legal persons governed by public law, legal persons, private persons, OTAs and B grades are involved - giving a head start to OTAs - members and giving particular care to OTAs 1 grade or island regions with a population of less than three thousand inhabitants. Criterion for the participation of natural and legal persons is the relationship with the place, at least ‘50 + 1’, of members and for natural persons, to the existence of some form of ownership of a property situated within the region of the community. In addition, for natural persons - members, the municipality of the region and for legal persons - members are required to have a seat within the region. The bill has the foundation of productive, creative cooperation, broadening concepts, limits and provisions. Anyone who reads it will discover the energy of citizens, the energy of self-government, decentralisation, island energy, the energy of productive operators, the energy of farmers, the energy of renewable sources and their own will and our own rightful energy, our own energy. In addition, it may, in the immediate future, constitute a precedent for a growing future market where the energy communities could, in full, have production, distribution, transmission, installation or operation of the respective networks. The example is Germany, which lists about eight hundred energy communities. In particular, I will refer to a cooperative of the small provincial city of Senau, established in 1986 as an action by parents against nuclear energy, with a view to using more energy-friendly technologies for the environment. The development was the creation of a company which has had its own electricity network since 1997 and has also been implementing the supply of energy. Under the provisions of the draft law, therefore, an energy transition is being established in the country, where the conclusion of cooperation and the dissemination of knowledge - and this is extremely important - are taking the lead in the immediate development of the energy sector. The incentives for innovation, the creation of human capital, the provision of capital and funding, the creation of knowledge and use of studies and experience of universities, institutes and institutions are now provided. The cooperation of energy communities with the Renewable Energy Renewable Sources and Saving Centre, which is the National Coordinating Centre in its fields of activity, is considered necessary, knowing that the CFP has become a research and technological body during its operation. Because something Mr. Screkas said before, I want, Mr. Screka, to answer something you said and show you an excellent difference in the bill. I come from a rural county, from the Fthiotida Prefecture. In too many prefectures, not only in mine, there are today entrepreneurs who have a lipocribine, where people do not have the economic potential - and they do not have the weakness, they have it for decades - to create their own way of solving the problem of waste management. Do you know that every year these people, every little and little, are being burdened with unbearable fines, which means that they are being made to survive? The question, of course, "what you did in 2013 and 2014 or what happened last decade or even 20 years for these people" will never be answered. But he responds with this bill. In my prefecture, in the Fhotida Prefecture, I do not know how many of the Member States, how many of the Members of the New Democracy and of the Officerial Representation, which I think you represent today, if you ask me why I answer to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u157	We're voting on it. We support this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u158	Is that what you're saying? You represent her today. So I ask: All these decades where have you been?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u159	Is that why you increased the tax on farmers?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u160	In all these decades, for those fines of people, my fellow citizens, my compatriots, who paid 20,000 or 30,000 or 40,000 or 50,000 euros, which were actually being closed down by the limo, what answers did you give them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u161	What fines? Now you've erased them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u162	So listen, dear colleague. You haven't read the bill at all, Mr. Screka. When you spoke at the beginning of your speech about oligopolistic and monopolistic actions, you haven't even read the bill and I'm sorry to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u163	You're ungodly. You didn't hear either. What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u164	The bill has serious actions, which is why you are forced to vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u165	Madam President, he doesn't know what he's saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u166	Wait, don't interrupt the speaker!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u167	So I'm on my way. I will give some examples.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u168	You said you did exactly what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u169	Please! Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u170	You don't know what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Vetta, we won't have a dialogue now. Say your views and finish because your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u172	I have several examples, but I will give you two.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u173	We support the bill. You were 'no' to everything!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u174	You destroyed an entire economy. The people who produce and have limos in the area know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u175	Now the economy is flying! Now the economy is taking off!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u176	So in order to understand the scope of the applications - and not to dwell on the skin views of some rapporteurs - to understand that this is a major problem, I will speak with two examples. First of all, the production of biogas from anaerobic digestion of waste, oil mills and cogeneration of electricity and heat. Of course, this can be used in various sectors, in industry, in agricultural activities, in heating, in refrigeration of buildings. The example therefore proposes a solution, as I said before, to one of the very big problems of the oil industry in relation to the management of waste in the oil mills' production process. It is a matter of timely and difficult to deal with, since the individual management of the waste of each mill is difficult, because the environmental modernisation of the many existing small mills is often economically unacceptable, resulting in cases of non-compliance with environmental legislation. In my region, in the Prefecture of Fthiotida, where the olive is dominated by primary production, it could be an energy community - and this is the important one - with the members of the olive mills of a region, the participation of the territorially responsible OTA I grade, the region and other natural and legal persons who will provide the know-how and will possibly contribute to the study, supervision and construction of the project. It goes without saying, of course, that this solution is one of the numerous technical methods for the management of oil mills. However, the lack of an institutional framework for cooperation between the abovementioned bodies prevented so many years from planning and implementing such projects. I shall mention another example, of course, extremely important.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Vetta, you've exhausted your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u178	In a minute, I'll be done. I was just delayed by Mr. Screkas. The exploitation of geothermal potential for the production of thermal energy and the development of a district heating system, settlements and tourist facilities, thermal tourism, which is important for our country, for the Fthiotida Prefecture, because it is well known that Greece has a significant number of geothermal fields - the energy exploitation of these fields is also an obligation at the same time. For example, in the prefecture from which I come, the best possible use of the geothermal potential would serve a large proportion of the region's energy needs in heating and hot water use through a district heating system, which is waiting for decades to take place, which could at the same time be an important incentive for tourism-health development in the region. The creation of an energy community with members of locally competent TAIs, the region as well as natural and legal persons interested in this project, will lead to the best efficiency of the energy resource for the purpose of development, whether it is economical, tourist or social, which provides, seeks and promotes this draft law. Madam President, thank you very much for your tolerance. Obviously, we support this bill with all our soul.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u180	Wait a minute, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u181	Madam President, on personal occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u182	I heard that, Mr. Screka, wait. I told you. Sit down. The Ministers for Health, Finance, Infrastructure and Transport, the Deputy Minister of Health and the Deputy Minister of Finance submitted a draft law on 17-01-2018 on 17-01-2018: "Since the completion of the National Bank donation contract in favour of the Greek State and N.D. N.A. “The Evangelism - Ophthalmiario of Athens - Polyclical”. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Well, you have the floor, Mr. Screka, for just a minute, to tell whether or not you read the bill. Because that's all he told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u183	Mr. Vettas did not hear what I said in my speech. He didn't understand what I said and distorted what I said. What I said, Madam President - and may my colleague also ask the minister present who was and heard what I said - is that the aim of this bill can prevent the creation of monopolistic and oligopolistic schemes. That is why we support it. But blinded by his party glasses, blinded by his ideoleptic direction, he cannot understand that we are not all the same, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u184	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u185	Please, these disputes in plenary are not correct. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u186	My colleague came here, read his poem and distorted what I said, because he judges the odds himself. Mr President, we are not 'no' to everything like you and then you come and vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u187	Madam President, can I take the floor for a second to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u188	No, Mr. Vetta, now. What do you want to answer? That you didn't hear that? What can we say? What did he say? He told you you weren't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u189	Mr Colleague, I said you confined yourself to this one. If anyone listens to your speech, if anyone notices it, they will understand that you referred to the bill for less than a minute. Well, look at that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u190	Will you tell us how to talk? That's disgusting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u191	I can't solve the problem now, Screka - Vetta. Get out and untie it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u192	You have confined yourself to nothing. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u193	Well, Mr. Vetta, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u194	He didn't hear what I said. I said that I would be placed in my dentistry, but that's not what he's interested in, Madam President. All he cares about is winning the impressions on his party audience, which is why the country, as it goes, goes to the rocks. That's the kind of parliamentarian we have, who don't know what they're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u195	That's all you care about. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Nikolaos Xydakis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Madam President. I'm sorry about the delay. There's been a warm climate now. Suddenly, from where it was a very quiet atmosphere, it was heated. I do not have much to say about the bill, because twenty-five speakers were signed, of which a lot of them were from the House. It seems that Mr Stathakis' bills are very popular and cause many comments - and rather prosperous - on the part of the Coupling. I have heard only a few and partial objections about the substance and the whole of the legislation, so I can firmly conclude that it is generally moving in the right direction. And there was a quite extensive discussion at all stages of the process. What I would like to note is that there have also been political speeches - and so I must - in the step of the House. When you talk about the legislation on the subject, because political topicality often changes at a rapid rate, the MPs are taking the floor. Today, we had the opportunity to comment from the Step of Parliament on the developments in diplomatic contacts for the "Macedonian". Some things have been heard from both the Step of Parliament and other public fora today. What I would like to address, in particular to the major opposition - but also to the minor, which of course has its own objections and has adopted other tons - that during the first days of the year there was a climate that was much more moderate and serious, which during the days, as we move in January has changed and has taken some of the characteristics of war. For example, New Democracy MPs have been plagiarising since last night, until this morning, various "margaritas" which they allegedly fished - the Press Office of their party with the positions, which had MPs, executives and current ministers, former ministers, of SYRIZA for the "Macedonian" during the last decade. They've done a poor job. They should have referred to what was said by important left officials since 1992, the large texts signed at the "Macedonian", in 1995, in large forms, intellectuals, political thinkers, historians, authors. It's not just protest texts. There have been deep analyses of books and studies. It has been twenty-five years, and the people who had historical responsibility, knowledge and meditation about what is happening in the modern Greek history and history of the Balkans and in the history of Europe, from now on, with very high steadfastness and very great political boldness, have been placed in the facts and analysed them. They did not cry at rallys that called irresponsible and parable factors. Let them be aware of these and younger colleagues in the Greek Parliament from the conservative party, look at what they have written old top officials, from Ioannis Varvitsiotis, to the statements made by Michael Papaconstantinou, then Foreign Minister or George Rally, who resigned, saying disgusting about what happened on the occasion of the "Macedonian". Let us see that behind the cries for "ethnicists" and "machés" there is nothing but seriousness, historical responsibility, pragmatism, imposed by historical moments and real political and diplomatic capital, which must safeguard and produce every government responsible. The Left never says anything different than what it says now as a government. It supports the national interests, the role of Greece as a country that guarantees peace, security and the advancement in our region over time, and that now wants to do. If a sign of moderation and understanding has been opened on the part of the government of Skopje, this should Athens assess it, take account of it and build a diplomatic framework together, to see if we can be converging. From there on, with all this on change, I would like to say with concern, to some extent, that this terrible rabies to return to power by a faction, which has served for many decades in the prefecture of power, does not serve anyone and does not serve their own purposes. It removes them, even from the object of their timid desire, which is power. As far as the changes or adjustments to political reality are concerned, I will remind them, not what John Maynard Kanes said, that "when things change, I change my mind, what you would do in my place, sir, to ask me." I will remind them of Constantine Karamanlis, who even the tradition of Constantine Karamanlis does not know about the Conservative Members. When asked by Andreas Papandreou in the House - so he surrendered - because he turned to the issue of exiting NATO's military arm and reinstated the country to NATO's military arm, Constantine Karamanlis told him a phrase: "Because the conditions were changed and the conditions were changed." And Andreas Papandreou had the political intelligence and steadfastness to recognize the value of this answer. Some years later, when the party of Andreas Papandreou - who was shouting: 'EEC and NATO the same union' and threatened a referendum on the EEC then - became a government in 1981, he appeared at the first summit and asked him: 'But are you in the EEC?', he replied with his advanced spirit and advanced humor, with a ton of Anglo-Saxon, one thing: 'I think we won the government with elections rather than a revolution'. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] In a second phase, when asked in the House again on the same subject, by the leader of opposition then, Andreas Papandreou said: "Let me change and become better". I am not saying that to justify any shift in matters of worthy core or deeper attitude within the value scale. In politics, however, a great virtue is to understand reality, understand it, understand when it changes and what the thoughtful or practical adjustments are, which are needed to follow the historical path and to better serve the interests and expectations of your people, the long-term and medium-term interests of the country. So when we hear the Conservative Members at this stage as well as the Members of the Conservative Party, as well as the Members of the Conservative Party, trying to exploit the anger, the whispers who are already inaugurating irresponsible clergymen, or the well-known irresponsible "Greeks" and patriots who will find a reason for their existence again, while they are extinct from the forefront of the major historical crisis, they will now smell and start shouting about their homeland, which they had trampleded. I am therefore waiting for the Members of the Greek Parliament in this critical year, which may mean the first upgrade of the exit from the crisis and the beginning of a difficult and demanding process for the reconstruction of our country, not to use, for any purpose, as a vehicle for a major foreign policy matter, to remember what happened in the past twenty-five years, to overthrow the Conservatives at least the written and deposited statements of their own members and their own teachers and to move on to another page, to open up another page. The danger for Greece lies in the contempt of ours, ours, ours, the maladministration of the state, the lack of productive tissue and productive model. Our responsibility is also to address the major changes, which are made internationally in the division of labour, in the way work is changed rapidly, in the way machines replace people at work, to see how we adapt. Our enemy is not the small state, the weak in our northern border. These are allies and well may be, not only neighbors and allies, but also friends and partners. We have on the other side of the Aegean Sea a restless neighbor, a great neighbor, with difficult and unpredictable behavior. Our forces, our thoughts, our attention to the future should be on that side. Here, in the Balkans, we should be indisputably the rulers on a path of peace, security and development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u199	Here, Mr Maniotis, you have the floor for a minute to make a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, we have just heard Mr Bordenos speak and say: 'I do not understand the rumour of a referendum. If we do so, we will have a monster status. It is a matter of tranquillization'. We now hear the government's parliamentary representative say what Mr Tsipras and Mr Kotzias say. The Greek society is being watched. This is a delirium of the leader of the Nationalist Club and the co-pilot of Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Kammenos. Because the country's foreign policy and national interests cannot be a kick in the mood of co-pilots to fish in blurred waters on the one hand and on the other hand, there is a question of a government majority here. Do Mr. Bored and other SYRIZA colleagues express themselves or go hand in hand with Mr. Kammenos? That needs to be cleared up. Otherwise, it proves once again that this government is ruthless and irresponsible to all national issues and much more to the Skopje issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u201	You're a bounty chaser!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, why did Mr Maniotis take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, because my colleague referred to my face, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Xydakis, I will give you the floor, just not to change the flow of the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u205	I am not changing the flow, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u206	Why didn't you make an observation to Mr. Maniots?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u207	Why did you give him the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u208	What am I supposed to do? Can I cut him off the time he was talking? Mr. Famelle, I'm saying this now. I say we don't change the flow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u209	Shouldn't I take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u210	The President's comment is for you, as the President has said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u211	Mr. Femmelle, I run the conversation, though. I therefore give the floor to Mr Xydakis to have an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u212	I agree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u213	Is that your problem? You play with the country and that's your problem? That I took the floor? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Maniot, please. There's no need for irritation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u215	You woke up from the lethargy, when you were all this time!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u216	Come on, get serious! You're a government of the country!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u217	You said what you wanted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u218	First of all, it was the wrong point of order to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u219	Mrs. Gara, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u220	Where is their parliamentary representative? The rapporteurs suggest the bill and talk about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u221	Deal. It's not the first time that we've missed something. It's okay. Mr. Xydakis will give an answer to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u222	But not to continue a debate like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u223	It's okay. Help me out a little. Mr. Xydakis, give an answer for us to move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u224	Mr President, I do not think that I have exacerbated any climate or spirit, nor have I personally offended anyone. If Mr Maniotis - who also in his speech had a tone of acid, but all the more so, the policy has tons of acids - thinks that in a debate that is taking place in a very harmonious climate, where even the classifications are cute and cosmic - as happened between Mr. Treasury and Mr. Minister, where the Minister explained - and there is a level, he can throw sticks without content...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u226	Please, Mr. Maniotis. I didn't interrupt you when you were inclined. Please! If Mr Maniatis thinks that with this political puddingism he will ruin all this, not only the climate of this particular meeting, but the effort of those of us, of all the Members of Parliament, of all the parties, we believe that there are issues of foreign policy of major importance, in which he needs seriousness, discussion, exchange of views and not of barrels, he should go elsewhere to play this role.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u227	Mr President, will you not give me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u228	Mr. Maniatis, let me tell you a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds. The bollocks and all that, they won't pass that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u230	I will give you the floor on staff if we agree first. All Mr. Xydakis said about you before is that you dropped a few rattles. If that's what you think it's personal, all right. But please help us go down. I didn't hear him tell you anything personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u231	Listen, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u232	Mr. Maniotis, please help me out a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u233	Mr President, your second mistake. Correct the mistake you made.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u234	You've given him the floor! It wasn't a matter! And now he wants the floor on personal grounds!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u235	Mr President, may I have the floor for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u236	You have the floor, Mr. Maniatis. All right, it's 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u237	Listen, Mr. President! If the SYRIZA Parliamentary Spokesman takes the view that a MP of his own party denounced co-pilot Kammenos as being a nicknamer and that he will open the monster dance, this shows the quality of parliamentary dialogue within the government. So there is a question that the government needs to answer. Is there a parliamentary majority or is there not?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u238	What are you talking about? This cannot be done, Mr President. I'll take the floor on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Maniattes, excuse me. No way, as long as I'm in the Chair, the nature of the meeting is changed. There's no way it's gonna change!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u240	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Maniot, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u242	The one minute you gave me I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u243	I gave it to you. You've exhausted it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u244	Delete from the Minutes what Mr Maniotis said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u245	Is it possible in New York for the Foreign Minister to negotiate, is it supposed, for Macedonian and Athens to talk about Vardharska?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u246	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u247	There is a question of a government majority and it needs to be answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Manatis, the character of the meeting will not be changed. Please don't write in the Minutes anything that sounds from now on. The nature of the meeting will not change.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u249	To withdraw what Mr. Maniot said!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u250	Minister, please help me. Don't change the character now. We said, some things have been heard, they have been answered. It's over now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u251	It's completely false as Mr. Maniots says. They've never been said. Absolutely false!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u252	Mrs Zoe Lebanese has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are being called late to raise anchors to sail on the small islands with a urinal wind. These islands that our poets uniquely praised, both for their natural beauty and for their particular weather characteristics. With the current government's legislative initiative we are making this journey forward. We're putting order in an anarchist and backward navigation system in the country. It is an effort to formulate and improve rules concerning the energy market and at the same time a proposal for a specific type of development in non-attractive areas such as the small Aegean islands. A regulatory framework is being established, which fully corresponds to the specificities of the island country. It gives the inhabitants of these islands the opportunity - and not only - to take advantage of the weather and the special characteristics of their land for energy production, capable of reducing the necessary oil combustion for electricity and thus reducing the cost of electricity, both for the permanent inhabitants and for the other citizens, who contribute to their electricity supply. Acknowledging that such infrastructures have costs and are not of interest to individuals, as they cannot generate significant profits, the government gives permanent residents, mainly, to form energy communities, to create power-generating and power-saving cooperatives on a limited geographical scale, supporting this development through the social, cooperative economy and European resources. The profits for local communities that will make this decision will be huge, as they will significantly reduce their dependence on oil. They will gain greater self-sufficiency, even in the months that are multiplying the needs for consumption. They will make use of nature and reduce any pollution caused at their place by conventional power plants. At the same time, the country reduces emissions of pollutants, exploits European resources in the right direction, forms a new cycle of economy, whose profits will basically be diffused in small dynamic enterprises. Apart from this very important part of today's bill, however, it is worth stressing the first essential move to create electricity infrastructure. It is well known that the modern world is becoming more and more intense in electricity movement for private means of transport. Many countries, in fact, are significantly subsidising the market in electric vehicles and have achieved a significant reduction in air pollution, which allows them to have a better quality of life and thus protect their health and the environment. In Greece it is not yet possible to shift massively to such vehicles, both because of market costs and because of the significant lack of charging stations. The government, with this bill, proposes - and quite rightly - allowing charging stations to be installed in public public areas, which will facilitate its development. The existence of such a network will solve the number one problem faced by someone who wants to obtain a power-driven vehicle, despite the cost of purchasing it. We hope that, gradually, there will also be economic incentives to replace our country's polluting fleet and state vehicles and thus start to replace them. The government regulates a number of issues relating to renewable energy sources, particularly of a procedural nature, with the aim of reducing bureaucracy, regulating existing problems and extending the linkage of our country as a whole to environmentally friendly technologies. It is clear that the government in this initiative responds in the best possible way, both to the challenges of the present and to the challenges of the future. It is clear that the Ministry of the Environment, the ministers and the executives see the European Union and its resources for the environment as an opportunity for substantial intervention in the country and society. The big difference, in relation to previous years, is that at last, real needs and prioritisation of priorities are being made not on the basis of major business interests, but on the basis of a substantial determination of the social benefit. This in itself serves in the best possible way, man and the public interest. Small interventions, small-scale investments give society more jobs and produce a better social and economic result, both in local economies and in the state as a whole. Let's pick up the anchors and start this journey in the future. We deserve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, my colleague. Mrs Karasarlidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on energy communities is an institutional innovation for two reasons. The first is that, with this bill, Greece becomes one of the first countries in Europe, which gives its citizens the opportunity, by passive consumers, to become producers of their own clean energy from their own renewable sources. The second reason is that it draws us out of a false dilemma, which puts us on one hand the so-called inefficient state and dirty PPC and on the other hand the so-called flexible green funds that invest in renewable energy. It is a dilemma in which someone else always decides on the citizens' energy lives. Indeed, our country must finally be released from lignite. But the way in which the transition is to take place and who will do it is very important. Today we are creating a new solution which, instead of the large green funds, focuses on the citizens. They are the citizens in their own places, within their own local government agencies, who can make a decisive contribution to the energy transition of the country away from fossil fuels. These micro-level solutions can be more beneficial and more effective than any pharaonic project, provided that citizens see the opportunity and take it. Today's draft law attempts to make the citizen the manager of his energy life, and this means that he is given the floor, but also the incentive, to become a responsible consumer, which in turn contributes to the resilience of the local society and the energy sustainability of the country. Energy communities will enable ordinary citizens, local businesses and local authorities to create participatory schemes that will produce and supply clean energy. This important innovation gives citizens control, particularly those affected in the years of the crisis, by reducing their incomes and a lack of basic energy services. Energy communities are aiming precisely at this fight against energy poverty, an issue that has been exacerbated in the years of the crisis. With the draft law we are trying to support innovation, improve energy efficiency, strengthen the penetration of renewable energy sources and self-production, reduce the energy costs for households and small and medium-sized enterprises and strengthen the solidarity and social economy. Our concern is to democratise the energy sector by involving citizens, so that we can gradually move on fair terms to 100% net energy over the next few decades. Our strategic goal is to highlight energy as a public and social asset, with public energy planning, to create a fair pricing policy, to develop a different energy model, with respect for the environment and local communities and to ensure energy adequacy. The bet on us is sustainable development, with rules on environmental protection, which unfortunately has never happened so far in this country. This draft law shows where we are based, in ecology, in green energy and in removal from lignite, but also in local societies, in which we transfer control and power to make them more autonomous, safer and more demanding. With respect to the environment, we promote the social and solidarity and an innovative economy in our country's energy sector. Colleagues, the overall draft law is addressed to all citizens and enables local communities to operate in multiple areas. For example, in the northern regions of our country, where energy needs during winter are much larger, residents will now be able to install districts producing heat with a district heating system to meet their heating needs. Moreover, there is also the prospect of installing a wind park or a small hydroelectric power plant. Examples of the benefits of the daily lives of citizens are many and can be made easier by the financial support provided for energy communities. There are also possibilities for joining financial instruments, exemption from the annual production licence fee, reduced guarantee letters and others. For us, healthy competition, while supporting vulnerable social groups and environmental protection, is a key priority. We want to say that all the political forces must support this draft law. But whether you go along with us or not, we are determined to move on with society into profound changes. Our aim and design is to leave us behind, not only the crisis, but also the economic model, the political system and the logic that led us here today, of course always with a demand for fair and sustainable growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Andreas Rizzoulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill for the energy communities - cooperatives - serves, as has already been said, the political democratisation of green energy production by all citizens, along with economic benefits for them. The exploitation of energy from air, sun, biomass, unlike fossil fuels, can be accessible and exploitable by each other. Technology, as it evolves, has constantly reduced and reduces the cost of investment for all energy producers from renewable systems. The dynamic coming of the RES, due to the reduction of energy production costs and its increasing demand, changes the energy landscape. The bill comes to cover just this target and adds even greater incentives to green energy production for all citizens, small and medium-sized enterprises and local government agencies. In order to understand practically the benefits of the operation of an energy community, we can imagine two or three companies that co-operate, subsidize the creation of a solar park to produce green electricity. The price of ‘green’ electricity is subsidised and guaranteed by the State, while companies can consume for their needs the electricity produced, giving their surplus to the system. Energy costs such as hotels, utilities, such as hospitals, local government agencies operating many buildings and electrical charges, will now be able to generate power autonomously by meeting their needs and reducing national electricity imports. At the same time, it will be possible, through virtual netting, to have overloads of electricity in relation to the needs of the network. The same can be achieved by an association of agricultural producers or cooperatives, whose members can produce electricity with solar panels or biomass, using as many loads as they need for their own needs. The producer of electricity is also its consumer. These cooperations have the characteristics of a social economy, since ordinary citizens and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs or farmers can join forces in common objectives, which are beneficial to society and the environment, i.e. with multipliers. In this way, an autonomous energy space can be created by the state and the private sector, with synergy and cooperative as a priority. In the event that citizens establish social energy enterprises, the benefit is multiplied for society, as will anticipate actions with a social benefit. We therefore have a service to energy self-sufficiency at limited cost and also with the creation of an additional income by producers at the same time as the country's energy self-sufficiency is served by renewable systems, in line with international commitments. There have been examples - I do not want to repeat them - such as apartments, where tenants can reduce the cost of living, in essence, by making such a cooperative. The projects of energy cooperatives and communities can be achieved, if wide scales are created, that is to say, to be used as an institutional tool by as many citizens as possible. For example, what this means and what is happening in Europe with wide scales. Let me say at the moment that we have a network of some two hundred fifty European cooperatives, which produce 'green' electricity and participate in it about six hundred and fifty thousand citizens. There are nine hundred local cooperatives in Germany, one of which has a distribution network. There are groups of students who collaborated and produce energy to operate their university. There are three hundred wind park cooperatives in Denmark and six hundred district heating cooperatives. We had 500 MW production in Scotland in 2015 from energy communities. In France we have energy initiatives, the largest of which has eighteen thousand members and thirty thousand consumers. We still have a network of ten cooperatives with a hundred employees, with twenty-five million turnover and five million cooperative capital. In the short time I have, I would like to make a comment on the bill we are discussing today. First of all, since the position of the rapporteur for the Communist Party of Greece - he is in the Chamber now - it seemed to me that there is an environmental confusion. I'll explain what I mean. You said at some point that the supposed increase in the greenhouse effect, and so on. creates such possibilities for new technologies to go and take out the capital. I'm saying this briefly. But that's what Trump says in America. So the hardest conservative circles in the world, like America and the hardest Republicans, don't want to cross the environment of renewable energy sources so that big companies don't have any trouble...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u258	That's a good idea.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u259	... nor is it the solution for the environment for the big countries to reduce their energy production and not to pressure small ones, who can produce cheap lignite energy, which will be for the benefit of the workers. That is what I mean by environmental confusion. I would also like to say something about the social economy. The social economy, obviously, works within the supplementary system. You're right about that. In other words, a part of it has been created to meet the needs of the social state which has collapsed. But there are social economy operations, in accordance with the criteria of particularity for the social economy, which act as an example in the existing system by democratic procedures, a'member - one vote', without gaining profit in the procedures. In fact, some of these projects also have radical elements that take it to overthrow the system and change the example. This is utopian, of course, as part of the system. But socialism in a state what is it? Is it utopia or not? The world revolution and the establishment of socialism in the world what is it? Utopia. The workers' struggles, to improve their position within the system, are something utopian? And when that's done, is it conquest? I asked some questions. I would like to end with Mr Maniatis, where we hear him for the 20th time being abusively attack - I would say - the Government and SYRIZA, using expressions such as: 'This government is a government of collectors and without moral barriers'. He also said about the surpluses, that they came out on the basis of very hard tax. There's something that doesn't count in how the surpluses come out. It is the crackdown and the donation of hundreds of millions in "losers" for so many years to governments that Mr. In this way, they managed the Greek economy and, in the end, the Greek society. Since Mr Maniotis makes these designations for a government without moral barriers and for a government of collectors, he should at some point characterise us as the governments to which he has participated. Where we've had all this complication that's coming out today in CCPVO and elsewhere and the crackdown of public money is what's it called? Mr Maniotis is not here, but I would once like to hear him describe these governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u260	Fortunately he's not here, or we'd have personally. Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill comes at a critical moment in the electricity market in the country, but also in the European Union, at a critical turning point, for both electricity prices and consumption. This criticality has been set in the last 15 years, where we have had a significant intervention of the hard capital in the production and marketing of the electricity market in our country. Firstly, we had arrangements at the expense of the main domestic production of electricity, which is of lignite, ultimately responsible for the low cost of energy in households, professionals and close industrial production. Secondly, we had mismanaged the public company, PPC, in other words, with the aim of depreciating it, divesting it into private interests, the greatest effort so far to transfer public wealth, from many to few. Thirdly, we were peculiarising social tariffs and public utility services by an endless customer-friendly state mechanism that ended up with the gainful value produced, with supposedly social benefits, see municipalities, cooperatives, TWG, where they owe hundreds of millions today to the Public Power Corporation. We did not - because they did not care - about the legislative framework since the powers of the local systems, the rural cooperatives, the small producers, the social economy, would be able to take the necessary market share, a crucial market share in the electricity market, which would make use of and move towards efficient and fair growth. Opportunities, funds and development activities have been lost from this policy, and that is exactly what we are changing it. We are seeking and aiming, not at the profits of the few, but at creating jobs, meeting the needs of the many, social energy in the economy. With this bill that we have brought today, it becomes the energy system more sustainable and independent, it strengthens the locality of the economy and thus contributes to saving through direct production and consumption, it contributes to decentralisation, strengthening the local economy and energy democracy, it is in an anti-monopoly direction, since energy production will be made by collaborative schemes and involving local self-government, aimed at guaranteeing the democratic and cooperative identity of the energy communities by regulating 'one member - one vote' and a 20% cap. And this bill, you will allow me, colleagues, and colleagues, is appropriate to table a flagrant amendment that is historic to the political history of western Macedonia. It is the grant of domestic electricity tariffs to all households in western Macedonia, and it is a legislative initiative, which its own history, about how it came here today, is proof of the reversal of our own example. It is the beginning of our political history, in a country that had supported its productive development in the lignites of western Macedonia, and we are returning to it - in western Macedonia, namely - the dues. We are returning them to all, who have had their precious common good for this purpose, the earth, their minerals, their waters, for decades and at enormous burdens on the natural environment and public health. The previous plan, which we have overturned, provided for the production of contraction, for the divestment of public wealth, for environmental degradation, for unemployment, for abandonment. We have many examples to this effect. We have lived through the closure of Ptolemais and, in a little while, of Amyntium and Heart, the reduction of lignite production in almost half of the world and the dismissal of hundreds of private workers in the mines, the horizontal reduction in the wages of permanent workers by about 40%, the divestment of mineral resources, the reduction of contracts at the expense of the public interest, the worsening burden on the lives of the inhabitants of the surrounding mining and the desertification of the natural environment of a vast area, making it an early example of the upcoming unobtained climate change. This plan, we are changing it with a productive reconstruction and environmental restoration plan, with investments in modern combustion technologies, new innovative lignite uses, in loss balancing programmes, in a strategic environmental recovery programme. Western Macedonia will remain the country's energy hub with new investments and strategic plan in a modern, evolving field of energy policy. We are therefore building 'Ptolemais 5' with the aim of aiming to have a unit - a flagship to the upcoming competition. We are completing the relocation program of the settlements, which have been pending for years. We financed the construction of a pilot treatment plant for lignite derivatives. We have unlocked the European Union's programmes for a fair transition to new productive actions. We are completing the interventions for natural gas uses, that is, for domestic and energy use. Here you will allow me to say something because there have been several inaccuracies over what has happened. Indeed, an agreement had been made in 2013 by the previous Government to pass the MSF, except that he was transit, only that no agreement had been made either for uses in the region or for any significant amount of social corporate responsibility. We have changed this since 2015. We have been looking forward to the benefit of local societies, and social corporate responsibility has reached 32 million euros since the definition of the EIT, and today these amounts are falling into the local economy. The granting of the aid to domestic consumers in western Macedonia is a fair recompense, and that is why we are implementing it. It is governed by an important principle of redistribution and social control and is part of our strategic plan. For the first time since productive activity, not only do the workers benefit from it, but society as a whole. There is a fair correction of our region's subsidy deficit by the European Union due to real GDP from electroproductive activity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. All citizens are being returned to what is lacking in so many decades, the cheapest access to energy, produced on their own land, by their own waters, with their own power. The Western-Macedonian people, at last, reject the paradox of being at the heart of the country's energy and, at the same time, poor energy. On the back of lignite and electricity production, the country's productive reconstruction has been supported in the past decades. The many Western-Macedonian land, as well as the sacrifices and labor of its people, gave the good of electricity abundant, stable, cheap to the whole territory. The new possibilities of purchasing energy and competition require the protection of jobs, the know-how of productive and industrial activity and the environmental recovery strategy of the region. The reduced electricity tariff is an important aspect of our democratic, progressive and modern political plan for the environmental and productive restructuring of western Macedonia. It is the lively historical example of how a fair, popular demand, launched by a self-government underneath and by the district manager Theodoros Karapidis, where our government heard it, because with these social strata it speaks and they represent it and so it implements it. It is the answer that a Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, respects his commitments, which he also made as Chief of Staff, but also as Prime Minister, participating in the Western Macedonia conference a few months ago. I have heard today from the Opposition implied that this measure on Western Macedonia might be abolished, that is, this piece of legislation, and I see nothing but their persistence in their old plan, which wants to bring desertification to Western Macedonia. This intention is unambiguous, does not go through and has already been convicted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Comrade, you've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u263	I shall conclude, Mr President. We give flesh and bones to what is fair and worthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u264	Thank you very much. Mr Ioannis Theophiles has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have the good news and the best news. The good news is that we have a very good bill for energy communities and the best news is about our region, Kozani Prefecture, West Macedonia and the reduced invoice. Before I begin the best news, you will allow me to give a reply first to Mr Manatis - he will certainly listen to it, although he is not here - for this specula in the PPC's share, which 'we have taken it and dropped it on the tartars', because they have been counting it since it was at its highest. And I'm explaining. It was EUR 11.6 in June 2014 and we received it under EUR 5 in January 2015, that is, the share had fallen by about 55% to 60% in New Democracy. Don't tell us we dropped her in one-third. Indeed, since then, more has fallen, that is, from EUR 4.7 is now at EUR 2.5. It has fallen further, and that is a matter, but they will not charge us the 60% reduction that took place in their own term of office. So I come straight to the best news. One hundred and thirty-three thousand households, as the Minister of Energy Mr Stathakis mentioned earlier, will see a reduction in PPC's invoice to Kosani in western Macedonia plus seven thousand in Megalopoli. Mid-weight discount reaches 30%. It was fair, and it was done. Why was that fair, ladies and gentlemen? We have cases where PPC consumers live and operate just under the factories and years, so many decades were sucking, breathing the cancer and above they were paying YEO to their account. At least now they're going to see a reduction. It is just because our region, Kozani, Florina, western Macedonia were literally sacrificed in favour of the country's electricity and development. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection also came a few months ago and visited our region and saw them in our own body. The decades before were the definition of non-sustainable development, because our mineral wealth was looted, without environmental protection and without provision for the fate of the region, when the lignite exploitation ceased. We're at this point in time. We already see the results. That is why we need compensatory benefits, such as what is being voted on today. We're talking about the destruction of the aquifers. We are talking about significant air pollution and we are now talking about a rapid increase in unemployment, as we are in a recession in lignite activity. A persistent and correct request from the District Administrator of Western Macedonia, who is here today with us - to deliver the District Administrator to the Region - was accepted by all the political personnel of the region, by SYRIZA, by the MPs, by the Minister of Energy and above all by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and was announced by him at the first development conference in July 2017. Today it is being done. It is a good measure, Minister. It's a moment - a station in the history of the region. However, it is not enough for our so afflicted area. We need other structural measures that will take us out of the tide in which our region tends to come. And it's all ours' duty to catch up. I shall mention two, three proposals, since the debate concerns such measures. It is an opportunity to see the institutional framework of the local development resource again. 0.5% of PPC's turnover is directed, as Article 20 of Law 2446/1996 says, to environmental, infrastructure and development projects. This tripartite is the definition of sustainable development. However, the ministerial decisions that have been made based on this law specialise development projects in such a way that we have been deflectioned, especially in previous years and decades - because we are now closing twenty consecutive years of implementation of the local development resource - in non-sustainable and non-sustainable development activities. It is an opportunity to see the ministerial decisions again. In my opinion, the limits of anti-constitutionalism are being reached, because they are being evaded by the legislative powers of Article 20 of Law 2446. It is an opportunity to see them so that the hands of both the Region of Western Macedonia and the mayors of the energy municipalities are resolved to direct these funds only to sustainable development projects. Also, a unanimous request from the energy municipalities, the Region of Western Macedonia and all Members of Parliament - we had also called on the Members of the Officerial Responsibility who consented - to make available a percentage of the revenue from the auctions of unspent carbon emission allowances for the creation of jobs in the five energy municipalities. In fact, the presence of the Members of the Officerial Representation - and they are here - shows that it is an overall request from the region. We want the government to see it again, because our regions are going to a stall. It certainly helps the reduced tariff, but we want to see other structural measures. And, of course, we expect all the opposition parties to vote for this amendment on the reduced tariff in western Macedonia and Megalopolis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u266	Why only in Megalopolis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u267	As far as the bill is concerned, because time is passing and we have mentioned both our rapporteur and most of our colleagues in detail, I will only say, in reply to Mr. Dendias, who said: "Nothing important is not doing today, some urban cooperatives that the Urban Code says so. You just put two, three dictionaries there, and that's all". I will mention to him what he said - let him read or recall the Minutes from the meeting of the bodies - a representative for the environment: 'This draft law on energy communities is part of the legal framework that will make a significant difference in the long term for our country in the energy sector'. I'm sure we're talking about good news and important news. My opinion is that at the time of the energy transition in which we enter, this bill will be the roadmap, so that this transition can take place democratically, i.e. with the participation of the citizens and the OTAs. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the hub in the energy communities, that puts us all in the game, puts us all into the energy sector, citizens, workers' unions, and especially OTAs, where citizens are represented directly. Even households and small businesses or poor households, who cannot invest in the energy sector anymore, with virtual self-production, which is very important, opens the way for them with appropriate policies to hit energy poverty. To close, I said - I had prepared my answers to Mr. Dendia on the Katseli Act, but time has passed, but Minister Stathakis said it - and again that it is a very important bill, makes us all involved and part of the energy transition. I call on all parties to vote in favour of the bill and in particular the amendment concerning the reduced tariff in western Macedonia and Megalopolis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Nikolaos Srmalene, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to begin by expressing great pleasure and honour, since the Regional Director of Western Macedonia is also present at our meeting today. It was just a moment ago that the entire Ministry's leadership was present. The Deputy Minister just left. This bill really is an innovative, innovative bill and opens roads to energy policy in our country. The bill and the law will bring many benefits to the country's energy planning. That is why, firstly, it serves sustainable development by producing clean energy. Sustainable development is part of the development that we are visionating, a development of fair social and ecologically, a model of productive reconstruction in the country, which is different from what has led us to bankruptcy, that is, that we have lived in the past decades. Secondly, because it activates from below, contributing to the new production model, to ordinary citizens, to local bodies, to local authorities, to small and medium-sized enterprises. Thirdly, it is mainly aimed at renewable energy sources, resulting in mild environmental intervention. Fourthly, it contributes to energy savings. Fifthly, it is part of the promotion of the social and solidarity economy, a key pillar of the country's development process, in our view. Very important is that those who participate in energy communities are both producers and consumers. In addition, a key element for local development is the participation in the energy planning of local actors. In particular, for the islands - because we have spoken a lot about western Macedonia, to say something about the islands - the energy communities can decisively strengthen the energy self-sufficiency of the islands, and they may have multiple applications mainly with the use of renewable energy sources in water desalination plants, which, as you know, are energy-saving plants. Therefore, they can save significant energy costs through the use of renewable sources. They can also have significant applications for cogeneration, of course, electricity and heat. At the same time, the activation of energy communities on the islands can and must be a strong counterweight to the pharanonic wind parks approved by the previous governments. Mr. Manatis in December 2013 approved the environmental conditions for four-dimensional wind parks in Andros, Tinos, Paros and Naxos. These decisions were questioned and are still pending in the Council of State. So these energy communities can really be a strong counterweight to these plans, which we claim will not go ahead, since, beyond the anticipated decision of the JRC, the new spatial planning for renewable energy sources is under way, which we hope will redefine the conditions for the licensing and installation of wind farms and, more generally, of wind energy. In addition, it is important for small islands under three thousand hundred inhabitants that the minimum number for the establishment of the energy community is the number ‘2’. Small number of residents, minimal number to recommend an energy community and it's right. Finally, economic incentives and support measures along with the implementation of energy clearing will be an important boost factor in the operation and expansion of these energy communities. Here I would like at a point to be careful as the Ministry of Energy, so that there is a flexible institutional framework for cooperation between the energy communities with entities of the PPC Renewable or CAPE with other public bodies, so that the programming contracts that can be made to support programmes of the energy communities are not stiff and bureaucratic, but are flexible, so that they can be speedy and effective. In conclusion, I would like to say that my only concern is not the government's exit from the government, as Mr Screkas claimed in his report, or as the New Democracy expects every year to strive for this government's exit, but my only concern is this law to be implemented. That is, not just as a text in the FEK, but that the Ministry should start at the same time a campaign of support for the law - if you like, communication tactics - so that, because our society is not addicted to operates in such productive standards, it can go ahead, learn it and be able to operate in that direction. Starting from the apartments, from the villages, from the farmers and at all levels it can really be a pillar of decisive energy planning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. As far as I can see, my colleague Mrs Theopevette is not here. So we're going on with Mrs. Kozobol. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u271	The basic idea of the draft law we are debating today, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Minister, is to have a legal framework to guarantee the establishment and operation of urban cooperatives that will produce, store or manage energy. These cooperatives will be based on the principle of cooperation and will develop investment projects and projects in the energy sector of renewable energy sources. Our country has the specific characteristics of the relative poverty of traditional energy sources of coal and oil. However, its traditional comparative disadvantage, the large mountain range - around 83% - is non-agricultural - and the island complex with the three hundred inhabited islands and over eight thousand rock islands is a huge comparative advantage in our time as regards the possibility of developing renewable energy sources. We need an altitude for water, an altitude for the air and we have them and we use them. Thus, the old disadvantage that sent people to migration for six hundred years - and before Christ - has become a comparative advantage. Of course, there are several lignite deposits, which are relatively poor energy material in relation to the coal that has been supported by our country's development over the last fifty years. In fact, it claimed the second or third position in electricity production in the European Union, with about fifty million tonnes per year, with first Germany and then Greece and the Czech Republic. However, these mineral deposits are finite and the less they are used, the more they can be maintained. However, they cannot overcome the end of this century and much earlier for our country. So here they come the energy communities to play an important role, because small or larger projects on renewable energy sources implying this project, because of their small size they will not enter the investment radar of large companies. But they have proven depreciation five, six years. A 15%-17% depreciation, which is extremely high, therefore, gives local communities an important potential, since it will be an in-depth sixty-year income. It is important that the bill provides that certain conditions relating to the relationship between their members are laid down in order to preserve the local nature of the energy communities. At least 50 % + 1 of the members should be related to the place where the energy community is located and, in particular, natural persons – members must have full or small ownership or ownership of an immovable property located within the region of the seat of the energy community or be public in municipalities of that region, while legal persons having their head office within the region of the energy community. Also, in this piece of legislation - draft law now - a maximum percentage is set that each member can have. Regardless of the cooperative rate - which each member will have, he will only have one vote. Equally important is that specific economic incentives and measures are given to support the energy communities, so that this project can go ahead. And so now the energy community that will be set up, this particular cooperative organisation, will be able to produce, store, consume, sell power. It will be able to manage electricity transmission, provide hybrid - very important and pioneer - or electric cars for its members, develop a distribution network, develop alternative fuel infrastructure, attract funds for the use of renewable energy sources, prepare studies, manage programmes, advise its members on such programmes, inform, train, act in support - which is very important - of vulnerable consumers living below the poverty line, whether they are members or not of the energy community. Also, an important element of the nature of these energy communities is that any surplus from their use is not distributed to members, but 10% goes to the creation of a regular reserve and the rest is available for the purposes of the energy community, by decision of the General Assembly of Members. To conclude, the specific draft law we are debating today is an important tool that will contribute both to the country's productive reconstruction and to the construction of a new, different model than the one that led us to bankruptcy. And that's very important. Before I finish, it would be a mistake not to mention the very important amendment tabled by the Ministry of the Environment, which provides for a reduction in PPC's accounts from 22% to 27% for the households of the Municipality of Megalopolis and Western Macedonia. The reductions are very important that they will apply retroactively from 1 January. It is a small return, a small counter-duty, an act of gratitude for the environmental impact of the inhabitants of these regions where the development of these energy resources has benefited the entire Greek economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Georgios Diaras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. As we have to have a dialogue here, I must answer Mr Theoharopoulos, who is of course missing, who has asked me to apologise for the government's ecological, environmental policy. And I do have to apologise: The Greens and I, by taking part in the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group from this place, think that we have contributed, and have done, a lot of things, to the environment and to the protection of nature, which have not been done for twenty years or more. Let me remind you of the NATURA areas, a hundred new areas of NATURA, the bill for the management bodies of protected areas, which is now coming and the forest maps that were under 1% when we received and in one year were completed at 36%, they were posted and most of them have already been ratified. To say also about the law on the social economy, about the circular economy, about the law on recycling, about the plastic bag and a lot of other things. Of course, we Greens would like more, but they are not the Greens who have 50%, and society is still not ready to accept these ecological ideas. Unfortunately, we need a lot of work. I now come from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and we have seen how difficult this is. We need to realise that they have finite limits both on the planet and on the seas and that the resources are specific and we need to manage them in the wisest way but also in a plan. Mr Maniotis raised some issues by saying that the country's problem is the government, it is not the economy and that in the small and medium-sized enterprises in Romania they have taxed 3%. Because I have a relationship with Romania, because I had jobs there as a professional, I know that the wages of civil servants in Romania are EUR 200 to EUR 300 a month. I know Romania's public debt is too small in relation to that of our country. Our country's public debt is the second largest in the world, 181% of GDP. Do you know what that means? It is only for interest rates that we want primary surpluses of 3.5%. This public debt was not done by the current government. He got it 320 billion, and there it is even today. In fact, the PASOK left it at 2000 and the New Democracy in five years from 200 took it 301. Therefore, it is good to measure our words here and make an autocritical, not to become so aggressive. To understand, to agree, to go further. I have also told the committees that it is moving in the logic of ecology, decentralisation, economic democracy and sustainability. As we have said, the bill attempts another step towards change in the dominant development model, as much as economic and political conditions allow us in our country and internationally. It is another step and a continuation of the recent law on recycling, the cyclical economy and last year's law on social and solidarity. The bill intervenes in the critical need to address climate change, with an increase in RES - renewable energy - and a gradual decommissioning of fossil fuels. It also makes the energy system more sustainable and independent, as it strengthens local energy production. It provides opportunities for energy communities to operate throughout the range of renewable energy production at local level. I consider it particularly important that the proposals put forward by the operators, such as raising the limit - as the Minister has done with an amendment - of RES production from 500 KW to 1MW and also to resolve the issue of the storage of energy produced. It also strengthens locality in the economy and reduces distances between production and consumption. This greatly reduces energy losses during transport. Often these losses are 50% of energy produced. Local planning can be based on available natural resources, population composition - urban, semi-urban or rural areas - and on the specific characteristics of the environment and the available initial capital. For example, in a livestock area, an investment in biogas can be made in a purely rural area or forest with sufficient unemployment an investment in biomass, in an urban area with low incomes of residents passive solar systems. The Economists are positive about the democratic cooperative nature of the energy communities. This is guaranteed by the 'one member - one vote' regulation and a 20% ceiling for each participant. The bill thus contributes to decentralisation, to the strengthening of economic and local democracy, and also to the participation of the citizen in the management of economic and energy issues. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Who can be members of an energy cooperative? It is good that everyone who is actively involved in the economic and social life of the place, ordinary citizens, private businesses, social enterprises and local authorities can participate. So we can say that the logic of the bill is in antitrust, since energy production will no longer be limited to very large companies, but will also be made from cooperative schemes involving local government. Critical is the issue of attracting funds not only from shareholders' own resources, but also from European programmes, cooperative banks and holding companies. I would like to make a few suggestions to that effect. To regulate issues relating to the possibility of LEIs participating in investments through energy communities and to secure loan funds. Furthermore, to ensure the ability of the LAGs to provide the current local RES fee for the financial support of the energy communities in which they participate, to ensure the priority of examination by RAE of requests from energy communities, as well as funding from the NSRDPs, with priority for island regions. I shall be brief, Mr President. I also wanted to say, in conclusion, that it is worth taking into account both similar laws and regulations to give maximum priority to energy-saving schemes through the armouring of buildings, homes, public buildings and productive areas, with brave funding and use of all available resources and tax incentives. It is also necessary to resolve the outstandingities of self-production with small wind turbines, to provide appropriate tax, financial or other incentives for family businesses as well. We must therefore move on three lines: one axis is energy savings in buildings, transport, agriculture and industry. The second axis is energy self-sufficiency, at least in terms of electricity and fossil fuel rehabilitation, with the development of RES. The third axis is decentralisation in energy production, involving small and medium-sized producers and mainly collaborative schemes. The bill is absolutely positive. I cannot understand what a person's arguments will be in order not to vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Panayotaros, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. Last night a particularly interesting event took place. The speaker was the honourable Mr. Chris Spiros, a great form of Greek citizenship in America, a great lobbyist, who a lifetime struggled and struggled for the interests of Hellenism. That difficult period at the end of 1990-1991 when Yugoslavia collapsed and the big issue of Skopje, this format, came before us, the processes that were taking place, and especially the Hellenism of America, which was very much affecting things at that time in the US Government. Mr. Spiros said a lot in his speech yesterday. Some are known, some will not, and certainly will see the light of publicity the whole background of that time, with what that implies. The sure thing is that while all the Greeks were united, a fist - almost all the Greeks, probably, because there were always the imaginaries of independent Macedonia, a small, minimal part of the Greek people - and the political leadership then said that there would never be the word "Macedonia" in this state of Skopje, when it was independent, by magic one day, it was just that the negotiations would start, then Prime Minister Mitsotakis, in a very nice way passed "First Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia", a name that included the word "Macedonia". And since then, everything started falling apart, let's not be fooled. It was another betrayal of political leadership, one of the many, many who have seen the newest Greek state: either with the termitips that took place in the Treaty of Lausanne, where Eleftherios Venizelos went through some extremely negative agreements for the Greek continent, or later with the North continent, which was released three times by the Northcontinents and the Greek army and three times he was delivered back. Either when they gave the mushrooms an island from Istanbul, the island of Sasson, or even in 1974 when we heard "Cyprus is far away" when the heads of staff did not send either the submarines or the Phantom or anything at all. Either, when the guilders were sent back when they arrived in Cyprus, when in 1996 we experienced another great, huge retreat of Hellenism, a humiliation of what happened in Imia, when the entire Greek people wanted to get to the end, but once again in the government there were some very "little" who said "to say that the flag was taken by the air", etc. It was 1996 when we delivered Ocalan to the Turks dryly. They are the betrayals of the memorials, of the undocumented Geoffrey Papandreou, and the memorials that followed, against what the Greek people wanted, but which the political leaderships have constantly embodied, as well as all that has happened with fraud, with the perpetrance of Papaconstantinou, with the hammering of economic data and led our country where we are. The culmination of the betrayals and disappointment of the Greek people was the 2015 referendum, where the vast majority of the Greeks decided something and the next day those who organized it were on a completely different line. Nowadays, a ghost from the time of history has come back to the fore, Mr. Matthew Nimic, this weasel, Soros's puppet and the various non-governmental organizations, who, apart from those he defends, said correctly - cut off and "emptied" on the essence and the Greek Government and everyone? "We have nothing new to propose. We returned to the forefront the old proposals for the name of Skopje, where all were either the dry "Macedonia" or "Upper Macedonia" or "Double Macedonia" or "Peace Macedonia" or "New Macedonia" or whatever it involves, but Macedonia". Nothing at all. Not even a new proposal, although many have been proposed. After wanting so complex names, it could be called "The State next to Macedonia". You could call Skopje erga omnes, since you are all saying it and using it as enclaves or anything else, which, of course, will not in any way include the term "Macedonia". We see that all the enthusiasts and supporters of another treason plan, the Annan plan, are resurfaced, in the news of Mr. Kotzias, where in the Annan plan was on the front line of "yes" for another sale in our country. We've heard a lot of people. It was Mr. Katrugalos who said in an interview that the logic of emotion must prevail when they asked him whether a referendum should be held, because in the referendum there will be a sense of reason. That's what he said. Of course, it is certain that Paul Melas, the Macedonians, Alexander the Great, much older and more generally all the Greeks who have grown up thousands of years now, have never put reason above emotion. They put the logic in the service of emotion. Because the Greek people are brilliant, inventive and capable, they always had the best results when putting before and above all their feelings and philosophies. So the comedians were also smuggled during the Macedonian struggle and in the Balkan struggles of '12 and '13 where Greece doubled, because the feeling, the philosopheria, prevailed any logic. They smacked the comedians, whose aluminum dreams and chauvinism served in an indirect or direct way all those who support a complex name. Those of you who say right are in agreement with those who have long-standing or independent Macedonia or more covertly called Skopje with some terminology that contains "Macedonia". They say the various compromise circles of the Greek political scene and all those who want to convince us that we must accept an honest - as they call it - compromise. These honest compromises have led us here, in this situation that we are in, whether in national or economic terms or in other matters. They say - and use it as an argument - that we have lost the game, that the whole earth calls Skopje "Macedonia" and that we cannot do anything about it. Unfortunately, some articles have come out these days and today there are various business circles that say that the deal with the neighboring country, regardless of what name it will be and help the business people who do or want to do or intend to do. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the compromise, the problem first of all has been raised by the Skopje, because in this state the Albanian minority will soon be majority and over 50% of the population. This minority is in no way interested in the name of Skopje. All they care about is separating from this state and integrating them with Albania and Kosovo to fulfil this vision of Great Albania for which they are fighting designed, organized and appear to be on the right track. Whatever we propose to Skopje as a Greek state - whatever you suggest, because you are in command - it is certain that they will accept it in order to join NATO and thus take an extension of life. Because some things are not going to change, like the fate of this state. The game we're told is lost, only one loses it when one completely abandons it. And because we are not intended as Golden Dawn - and from what seems to be a huge part of the Greek people - to abandon it, the game is not lost. We have said it again and we say it again: All the earth recognizes Skopje under the name "Macedonia", if Greece does not do so, they have a problem of survival. But not just not to do it, but to apply it faithfully at all levels. Nothing crosses the Greek territory which mentions Skopje as "Macedonia", or as "Upper Macedonia" or as "Netherlands" or as "Netherlands" or as "Double Macedonia" or anything else. And when we say anything, we mean anything: neither intentional passports come here, supposedly put a sticker on the border, which they no longer even put, nor do their cars enter the Greek territory, where the "MK" on their plates - not just on the sticker - nor on the invoices for business that are made by many people for export, or for importing the word "Macedonia" etc. And not only that, but if we have a strong attitude as a state toward those who do business in Skopje called "Macedonia", but in Greece they do business without mentioning Skopje as "Macedonia", and we press them - because business is above all for too many - and if we put the 10 million Greeks in the balance, as much as we have been affected by the memoranda, it is in much better fate than the state of two and a half million Skopjes where their purchasing capacity is much - much smaller. And those who want to do business will take it very seriously. We must not forget, moreover, when the embargo had been committed to the Netherlands and England, what positive results and what pain they had caused those who have done business and who wanted to impose their own major issue. I would like to make a very small reference to the role of the Greek Church, which took a very good decision, namely that Skopje should not be recognised as "Macedonia". Well, that's all right. But they said somewhere below, "If anything different happens, we will see it, we don't think we have a place to intervene." The words must also be accompanied by works. And the works are the rallys and the folklore as they were in the past, where the Church was in the front line, as it was in the past, during the Macedonian struggle where the priests were in the front line. As an outline of all these issues in this very serious issue that is increasingly concerned, despite the fact that you started it from very low, from a people disappointed, it seems that on Sunday this people will disprove you with the rally held in Thessaloniki where hundreds of thousands of people are expected, but also at the rally organized by the Reverend Metropolitan of Ayia and Kalavryon Ambrosios at 11 a.m. in the morning where thousands of people in the region will be dragged. Whatever you do, as long as there are some who will never accept your compromise, in the end you will lose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ioannis Sifakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u277	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to remember what draft law we are debating today - I am very pleased to be involved in the legislation today on the application of the social economy in the energy sector by promoting energy democracy in energy production and saving, locality, participation of local societies, regional OTAs, cooperation between citizens living and having interests in the region. It is a law that is in line with the worthwhile burden, with the political profile, with our values for disseminating the use of productive means, production capabilities, incentives for many, for the active involvement of the citizens and institutions of the closest citizens, the local government agencies, the JHAs, the TWGs in synergies to produce or save energy. Just the different conception of this government of fair growth in the interests of many, has led it to introduce the concept of the social economy in our country and already strengthens the social economy in many areas. Two areas that I personally have to deal with - and in my current capacity as a representative of a rural area with many natural resources - are the energy sector on the one hand with this bill, but also with the incentives for setting up producer groups and organisations in the agricultural sector with a small relative number of members, which are also, in practice, social economy organisations. Involved professionally for two decades with renewable energy sources, but also with my trade union status in the past of representing Pan-Hellenic Association of Renewable Energy Technology, I have seen the need for this bill in practice many times. I have heard mayors, citizens, citizens' associations and citizens' associations seeking to participate in schemes for investment in renewable energy sources and cannot do so, to have some particular incentive to help them, to ensure their locality and effective participation in decision-making. At the best of the cases so far, OTAs were usually called upon to play a decorative role with symbolic 5% or 10% participation in partnerships with private companies, having no chance of participating in any decision and thus almost no substantial gain in practice. I have heard citizens in areas with separated electrical networks asking for solutions so that they can offset the energy they need at home, hotel or business. So far, that is not the possibility. With this legislation, through the energy community, they can make use of virtual energy netting, virtual net metering, giving a solution to their problem. In addition, the entire time the bill was in the consultation, pending its processing and until today many citizens, companies, OTAs, OTEs, had addressed me, asking for an accelerated deposit and vote of this bill to be activated. Twenty years ago in a village of Pella, Panagitsa, we had successfully attempted to establish a company with a priority participation of the inhabitants of the community, as well as the minority participation of local companies and of the community itself to establish three small hydroelectric power stations in the village, which make use of the elevation differences between irrigation artificial lakes for the production of energy. Sixty-nine residents participated in this effort, the community and three local companies. These small hydroelectric power plants already operate eighteen years very successful. Some municipalities - in Lesvos, Karditsa, Xanthi and elsewhere - have invested in renewable energy sources, most of them in a successful way. These people, by reading this bill today, see themselves in it, without the motives that this legislation contains. Everyone has suffered considerable suffering to achieve what they have achieved at that time, engraving unknown paths at that time. This bill solves many issues, prioritises authorisation procedures, deducts costs, gives opportunities that were not there. Conservation of locality, both as regards participation and the seat, is the substance that will ensure the objective to be pursued. It's the heart of the bill and the main difference from the current situation. It is the political approach that goes hand in hand with international practice. I think it is obvious that others, who do not fulfil the criteria of locality and headquarters, should try to exploit the important incentives provided by this legislation. These were also expressed at the meeting of the bodies. That is precisely what proves that the incentives provided by the bill are serious and willful. In addition, cooperation, the group of citizens for the establishment of an energy community, can ensure the connection of knowledge, the experience of some of them with the economic potential of others, especially by ensuring the financing of small projects from renewable energy sources. The aim - with many chances - of involving the Deposit and Loan Fund in the financing of energy communities - would be very useful and very important for the success of this project. The possibility of using development law and other development instruments is also an important aid. The LAGs, an energy factor, are also being challenged to make a decisive contribution to tackling the energy poverty of vulnerable parts of their local society. Using this bill, a local scheme, involving citizens, OTAs and local businesses, can set up a small hydroelectric power station or a photovoltaic power station. Also, a TEI or an JHA or a municipality may exploit the elevation difference in existing irrigation networks to establish also a small hydroelectric project. A prerequisite, of course, is to amend the 2011 Ministerial Decision, with FEK 518, which poses major problems - most of the time insurmountable - in the establishment of small projects. It can take advantage of the biomass from the trimmings of trees, the residues of wood from the wood processing plants, the grubbing up of the trees for the restructuring, all forms of biomass for the production of electricity and heat. An energy community of farmers in a region will produce energy and offset the current of irrigation pumping. This institution may also make a significant contribution to energy savings. Furthermore, the proposed amendment extends the possibility of virtual energy offsetting to other RES technologies, which is very important and can help JHA as well as other bodies, Also important is the amendment, which gives a discount on electricity bills to the inhabitants of the region of Western Macedonia and the municipality of Megalopolis, for the improvement - as far as possible - of their livelihoods which have been borne by lignite mining and production. So there are many possibilities for this project. Society will not count as much as malnutrition, misdemeanor and abstraction of anti-politicism's hair, especially the New Democracy and the Democratic Partnership, against a good piece of legislation. Those who, with the total lack of any medium and long-term policy in the RES, have led to the energy market in their days very close to bankruptcy, those who have forced the consumer to put his hand in the pocket, and this government has had to come and save the RES account at the OLAF and rationalise the payments of producers, are not capable of a good, clearly good, law-abiding, support. Society must take the lead and create new jobs, participate in energy democracy, exploit natural local resources with respect for the environment, benefit directly from the incentives given to energy production from RES and contribute to the treatment of energy poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Aphrodite Theophevette has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President, and your tolerance to my absence. Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to welcome this bill, which, in fact, is part of energy policy, giving incentives to OTAs, businesses, individuals not only to be energy consumers, but also to be producers, who will either sell to the network or offset the current they consume. We're still at the beginning. I think that, by moving on to this innovative project, it will also help to combat energy poverty on the one hand, but it will appear along the way and in the democratisation of the energy sector. I would also like, as some of the previous speakers have done, to pay tribute to the efforts of the Ministry of the Environment in specialising incentives and conditions for island regions. As we all know, our islands and the Aegean and also the Ionian Sea have a water shortage problem. This gives a great breath to permanent residents, through businesses or through OTAs or through private individuals, to help combat the problem of water shortages and through this. In us, in Ithaca, the permanent residents are three thousand and the four desalinations, which operate on the island, cost - functionally and energy - about 500,000 a year. We are talking about excessive water costs, about self-evident. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to four amendments, which I tabled to this bill and which are mainly a urban area. The first, under General Number 1441 and Special Special Representative 164, refers to the extension of a time limit for the issue of building permits and building permits. As we know, in recent years many people who had filed a file to issue licences have not been able to finally complete control. Either the towns were stripped of staff, or they themselves were in a bad financial situation. We therefore propose that a deadline should be given until 30-4-2018, if a dossier has been submitted, not to be returned by the town planning, that is to say, and that it can be issued by 30-4-2018. The amendment of a general number 1442 and a special number 165 concern the extension of the term of office of the collective bodies. There is also an amendment with a general number of 166. Both amendments refer to the proper functioning of the collective bodies required for the administration. However, the bodies should give their opinion on their establishment. So, because of this delay, the mandate of the previous collective bodies is extended, that the administration, that is, may not be delayed. Finally, Amendment No 1445 and Amendment No 168 concern the competence of building permits and the extension of the validity of building permits for the reasons I told you before. Many have already issued their licence. It was also given with previous legislative extensions in order to complete one, who had such a building permit, the skeleton and the sides, so that he could get an indefinite extension and finish it. There is therefore an extension until 31/12-2020 - the end date - for the validity of these building permits. Furthermore, in order to adopt the joint ministerial decision on establishments of the Ministry of National Defence, another extension is given. Minister, I ask you to accept them because I think they help a lot of people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u282	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the amendments, which Mrs Theophetto mentioned, we are accepting - I will say them one by one - the following: The amendment with a general number 1441, that is to say the extension of the issue of building permits up to 30-4-2018. Those who expired on 31 December, and were only a few formal ones, take four-month extension to complete it. Amendment No 1442 concerns the collective bodies and has been accepted. The amendment with a general number of 1443, which also refers to the continuation of the work of the committees and the bodies which give opinions on the law subject to the traditional settlement, is also accepted by a legislative body. In paragraph 5 of Article 125 of the Act, the verses are added, the numbering is changed, and the entries ‘e’ and ‘f’ are deleted. It's a differentiation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u284	The last paragraph includes these verses.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u285	Wait a minute. There are no a, b, c, and d, as they confirm me. The next amendment, which is accepted, is 1445 on the extension of building permits. I imagine it is an extension for which there is a general consensus in the House. There is also one amendment, which is not accepted, for the small wind turbine generators, Mr Nicolopoulou's 1427. We do not disagree with the spirit, but we are preparing legislation and a ministerial decision to relaunch the small wind turbines market. In particular, there will be a competitive procedure specifically for small wind turbines. The problem will therefore be solved globally for the entire small wind turbines industry, and there is no reason to have a special provision in this bill only for energy communities, it will also cover energy communities and small wind turbines producing individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u287	Mr President, I would like the floor for half a minute on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u288	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u289	Minister, on behalf of the Democratic Alliance, we have also tabled an amendment, which I believe is fair and I am sure you can accept. This amendment says this very simple: as we allow financial support to be granted to the four prefectures in the region of western Macedonia for the well-known reasons, even in Castoria and Grevenas that do not have lignite units - and that is right - we want to extend it in the same logic as the possibility of financial support to households, not only in Megalopolis, but throughout the whole of Arcadia. We are not talking about the whole region of the Peloponnese, about Arcadia, and about the neighbouring municipalities of the peripheral communities.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u290	And Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u291	No, but as I repeat, there's no lignite plant in Castoria and Grevenas, and yet...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u292	Good, Mr. Maniot. The Minister heard it, and he'll see what he'll do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u293	...42 euros the megabare, the same applies to Arcadia and the neighbouring municipalities of the neighbouring regional communities. I shall return it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr. Maniot. Mr Syrigo, you have the floor for seven minutes and years!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u295	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief, so that I may be surprised if you welcome the adequacy of my speech or my briefness. The issue of energy adequacy has been and remains top in our discussions and our priorities on the islands and especially in the Cyclades. The peculiarity of the island microclimate has imposed and imposed an extremely difficult balance between environmental protection and energy activity. I believe that, among other things, the draft law also benefits from the fact that the constitutional principle of Article 101 on islands is taken into account first of all. This is evidently highlighted in the rapporteur's report and is demonstrated by the individual provisions of the draft law. Indicative: Article 2(1)(c), Article 3(1a), Article 6(3) and (4) and 22. The aim of this is to adapt the law to the island specificity, an adjustment which must not just remain'speeching', but to be implemented in short and reasoned steps by the administration and stakeholders. In this sense they are of serious interest and the remarks made in Article 22 of the Scientific Office of the Parliament. Laws define the framework for the actions of society, regulate our lives. However, the laws alone cannot achieve anything unless the citizen is activated and the administration does not function properly and flexibly. This is the most difficult part of the road to energy adequacy with respect for the environment. The draft law - cut-off, as the Minister has pointed out, will be a valuable tool combined with other bills already made by the state, and this demonstrates that there is a logic in things and a broader plan. It will therefore be a valuable tool, both in the area of economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr. Syrgos. Mrs Maria Antonio has the floor. After Mrs. Antoniou, the Minister will take the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Antoniou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary the bill introducing the institutional framework for establishing and operating in our country of energy communities, energy cooperatives, which have as their main area of activity the Renewable Energy Sources. It is a bill that is generally in the right direction, as it introduces a model quite widespread in many countries of Europe, which can also apply in our country and contribute to the promotion of innovation in the energy sector and the development of energy sustainability. I am very pleased, Mr Ministers, that you have become such Europeans, but of course not on all issues. I would, however, like to focus on Article 18 of this draft law, which amends Law 4178 and allows by way of derogation any other provision for the use of trade fairs and exhibition centres in residential control areas, IOE. Ladies and gentlemen, I have shown in my political course that above all personal ambition and political destiny I am putting the good and the interest of my place, of Kastoria and of its citizens. I could therefore only welcome and support this regulation, which appears to be applicable in the case of the Gounomies Association's exhibition centre 'Spirit Elias', which was built in the previous government, and this provision can give a solution to a problem that has arisen. And it is certainly a positive measure, despite the express and many expressed positions of SYRIZA and its members against the fur industry or rather of the old SYRIZA, who had reached the point of demanding the immediate abolition of the fur trade sector. We, of course, as New Democracy, have always supported the fur industry, which is not just the main lever of economic development in Kastoria and Kozani, since the bill has become more than Western Macedonia, but also one of the first export sectors in the country. And it is undeniable that, following actions carried out at times and in particular over the days of the previous government and its persistent efforts, difficult and time-consuming issues have been resolved which concern the industry, such as the abolition of the luxury tax on domestic products produced with the previous government, the simplification of the authorisation procedure for fur farming units, the integration of the breeders' industry into the primary sector. That's all done with the previous government. The extension of the re-export period for goods included under the energy finishing scheme. But the proposal we made in 2014 to the Ministry of Labour for the local integrated programme of EUR 13 million, which, unfortunately, did not appreciate why you came to the government. Today it is true that the Greek fur industry is experiencing a great crisis. And there are many important problems that the government and the relevant ministers do not seem to be interested in or do anything about. The economic difficulties and the heavy tax and insurance burden on the measures you have brought has led to thousands of businesses operating in the area being closed down. The hindrances and difficulties of exporting to Russia, the capital controls, which you said would stay for three months and have been three years. The special tariff regime with duties of 30%. The difficulties in administering visa. For all these problems, Mr. Ministers of Government, what are you really doing? Or do you think that the resolution of a management issue is enough in itself to support impetus and development prospects in an entire industry, which is being tampered with by your policies and measures? I would also like to refer to the famous ministerial amendment that you are using as an election term to give the people of Western Macedonia something. It is an amendment in principle positive. However, I remain extremely vigilant. Why do you say aid from the state budget, but you do not tell us when, neither the exact amount of aid, the procedure, nor the criteria, nor when it will be created, nor whether it will be granted for a year only, nor who will be entitled to it, nor the maximum and minimum levels of consumption that may be included. I think that rather a measure of the communication character of the government is also an exceptional and temporary allowance rather than just to make the Prime Minister's pre-election statement on the occasion of his visit to western Macedonia a little rough. I am not saying, it is good that electricity is reduced, even a little bit. Well, for the time before the elections, I guess, it will. We'll see about it in the ministerial decision. But did you wonder, Minister, who now has money to pay for the power? In the three years of your governance, no work has been done in the Region of Western Macedonia. Three years, not one development project. Especially in Castoria, three years of government SYRIZA - ANEL did not enter a stone, my Minister. Some works that were under way have stopped. People are leaving, business is closing. And don't tell me about TAP, because here we'll all laugh out loud. Let me remind you what you voted on when the TAP agreement came to Parliament. In fact, according to the recent natural gas road map tabled by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, you left Western Macedonia apart from the gas provision decision. In conclusion, the electricity allowance will probably be lower, because the population of western Macedonia is actually decreasing. In the region, therefore, with the highest unemployment rate in Greece, instead of creating jobs, you share the prospect of the young people of western Macedonia, as long as you can see, election benefits. To put it right, you're redistributing the money you deprive them of. On the one hand cut off the heating oil and on the other hand reduce, for no time, electricity. On the one hand, you get ten times more, and on the other, you return far less and consider it a success. To close, I hope that, even late, SYRIZA's interest in fur and in Kastoria will not be fragmentary or hypocritical. I hope that the voices and views of your officials calling for the abolition of fur trade have been permanently abandoned. It is imperative that, not only for the local society of Kastoria, but also for the national economy, the relevant ministers should deal with the problems of fur production and give immediate solutions to the problems that concern the industry. It is good to see Article 18, but if it is not accompanied by political and development measures that will boost one of the leading export sectors in the country, this measure will not be more than a drop in the ocean of the recession and decline in which you have condemned the country and businesses, and how much more of our region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u298	Mr Famelos, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u299	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether the land uses of the fur centre in Kastoria are a sign of seriousness at last - because you have not shown it for so many years, Mrs Antonio - for the development of the land. However, what I know is that this time I have the honour of serving the Government from the position of Deputy Minister of the Environment, the forest kiosk was allocated to the Environmental Association of Environment Friends in Kastoria, which was also so many years ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u300	That's a big play.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u301	Also this year the bill for an institution in the protected area, based in Kastoria, which you have booked. I think, at last, that this year there are too many things going on, and these years, at last, there are many things about Castoria and they really happen and they stay permanent. Now for what you said that if this allowance or this aid is election paper, it will remain and will be abolished after the elections, it is a pity to say your intentions out loud at the Stephen of the House. According to your scenario, you will take the government. So, then, did you just admit that you will abolish this allowance for the inhabitants of western Macedonia?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u302	Make a law, not a ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u303	We're not going to leave you any room like this, because you're just not going to take the government. We will be here and citizens will be stable in Western Macedonia. We're gonna ruin your plans. It is a pity, however, to admit publicly that you intend to take this measure back. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill for the energy communities we are debating these days is a model of energy transition based on decentralised production and consumption of energy resources and which we consider necessary to achieve the country's commitments to the global climate agreement. A few weeks after the global meeting of the leaders of all the countries in Paris, we are obliged once again to tell the Greek Parliament that there is a lot to be done about the climate agreement and that there is a global danger, to which at least we do not yet have a global agreement, but it is necessary to have it. We need radical and radical changes in politics in Greece as well. Because we can all say that climate is an important factor, a factor in the quality of life - the future of our children - but there are no real policies to promote climate change and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. And that is why we need major interventions, obviously through energy planning, first of all, but also by changing agricultural production, waste management, building operation, transport, so that we can proceed with a substantial and real major plan to mitigate emissions, which is something that we, following the recent conclusion of the agreements at the meeting of the Ministers and the European Parliament, intend to do with legislative intervention. We must, however, say that important steps need to be taken at the same time in adapting our lives and all socially beneficial activities to these issues, because we must change substantially. The model of energy communities is not new. It is a model that has been applied in Europe. But it is an integrated institutional intervention that our country is doing and has pilot features. And, if you like, it also finally captures the essence of what European policy means, what Europeanism means. The political parties which have exercised power so far have been Europeans in effect. The substance was for air loans, offshore companies, pimps, party parties. That's practically what happened. Now, however, we need to get into the essence of European policy and change it. And it has been accepted that SYRIZA and this government are changing European policy, is taking part in the European agenda. That is what we are doing with today's debate, which carries the axis from the mono-industrial RES - which created problems in Greece, which did not feed the Greek product produced, the Greek labour, but which bears the bills of the public we are paying even now in crisis - to a substantial technological and economic design involving society. And that's not just what we do in the RES. We're doing it to the other energy instruments. Since Mr Skreka's very substantial position on the need for Western Macedonia to have gas has been made, I would like to tell you what I, as a citizen of Thessaloniki and Mr Skreka - I suppose - have been a citizen of Thessaly in recent years. For twenty years we have seen gas passing through our cities but not feeding them. This government had to come to Thessaly, in Velestino, in Tirnavos, in Calabaka, in your prefecture, in Elassona, in Palama, in Agia, in Anchialos, in Sofia, in your prefecture - in Musakaki gas. Not all these years were the towns of Thessaly gas, while the pipeline spent twenty years from Thessaly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u304	All 'will'. Plan to see.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u305	Kalambaka is for 2018, Mr. Skreka - here we will be - and in 2019 are the Sophods. As also, this year in Thessaloniki is Trilofos, Plagiari, Hortiatis, Filiro, in the middle of the year. In November - imagine - he was hosting the gas pressure reduction station, but he didn't have access to the gas. This was the policy that has been pursued so far in Greece. But the Basilica, the Rush, the Chalastra, the Koufalias, the Lagadas, the Machinery, the Reunion will have gas in 2018. This is the basic policy of decentralisation - if you like - that we are implementing. With the Energy Communities bill, we import the tools to finally develop and distribute sustainable forms of energy, which will be locally produced and will be low-carbon policies now. We are aiming to develop a substantial debate in Parliament on the low-carbon economy, or I would say about the economy of zero-carbon. Of course, here we are not just putting renewable energy sources, cogeneration, sustainable transport. We are putting the debate on the building and on sustainable urban mobility. And we must also come to the House to discuss practically such actions. And so energy communities can start and be applied by a building with a small photovoltaic up to a large cogeneration and electrical movement. That is the difference in our view, that we are no longer talking about investing in one, if you like, a large scale that does not touch the real society and perhaps in services more. This is the main difference in the production model. Investments that are behind the energy communities are real product investments and are investments, which at the same time leave a specific labour footprint and are linked to the resolution of the problem of energy poverty. So we also resolve and access to energy that is socially good and not guaranteed up to now, but also create the economy of real product, and solve the problems of management of peaks and bases in energy demand. And he returns the benefit to society, returns to the producer and doesn't take it as a goodwill to take it to offshore, as happened to your own governments. And it gives citizens the opportunity to participate in businesses, but also in self-government, and so words that have been used in the past, I confess, such as demographic planning, now acquire their real substance, because they have not really been given access to development. And, you know, these are the real changes that I know really hurt neoliberals. Changes in the real economy and the social body, which the citizen understands can produce, produce, have the right to produce, have the right to access the product and benefit directly and economically and socially are the real democratic changes that disturb you. Because these changes, and that's why you accept them, you can't get them back. It's like the changes at the development conferences that you never thought about doing. So go to the places, talk to the citizens locally, highlight the value of self-government locally, which is what you tried to stop by putting party bumps on it. You asked the self-government with a party mandate not to participate in a conference on the development of the site and all your self-government turned your back. That is the essence of politics. That's how Greece really changes and these changes hurt you because they don't easily come back. This debate on this bill, although you all accept it and you cannot deny it, makes a change in the level of common responsibility. The citizen understands that he is co-responsible, but he is co-responsible for making decisions. Because until now, the citizen has been deprived of the right to decisions on energy, it has remained very far from him and for others, if you like, of environmental goods. And it minimizes the scale of projects and improves social acceptance. And it is clear that these changes are not compatible with the adequacy of the New Democracy, particularly, but, unfortunately, the PASOK being and this has been neoliberal in recent years. They are changes that change the democratic model of production. They apply cooperativeness to its real scale, not the cooperatives, that you gleaned with your "children" and party rulers, but cooperatives that will be judged by the citizens themselves and evaluated in production, because it concerns their own consumption and their own wallet, so they will be involved in the control of energy cooperatives. Of course, we are also changing a great deal in islands, an island which, first of all, is supported by our political intervention in the Council of Ministers, which made use of EUR 500 million for the interconnection of the islands, which the previous leaderships of the Environment Ministries did not claim for Greece and the islands. We claimed it now, started in February 2017 and we won it together with the Minister, with the Council of Ministers, while at the same time creating another view of what self-government we want. We want self-government that is involved and genuinely involved in politics and transformation and energy production and economic production. It is this essence of regional development that will keep Greece with a substantial productive reconstruction in the fair axis of perspective and progress both for Greece and for Europe. And now, we have citizens in this production, behind this bill, who are now becoming active citizens. Not only are they involved in the energy cost decision, for the energy instrument, but also for energy production. They participate in a decision on the environment of the place, on their own lives and on the economic production of the whole place. And this can be done on an entire island, but it can be done in much smaller climates. This substantial change in governance I have come to show, if you like, in my position. A change that concerns both production and consumption. It is the real change that can give us results and the climate battle. It is a change that is enshrined, remains in public debate, remains in public consciousness. It is a change that will actually make us recyclable rather than have these tragicly low percentages, which will introduce recycling into culture, to sport, to welfare, to all the functions of our lives. To introduce the circular economy into the real operation of the economy. And so I think it is worth saying that this month the government's political initiative on the circular economy will be announced, which is essentially European, but it was absolutely from your own policies. So my position, ladies and gentlemen, says that the real policy for Europe, the real policy for Greece and the Greek citizen, is the one that is made locally, decentralisedly and democratically. And this good, this quality, this proposal is made by the government, and that is what we are doing with great pleasure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Maria Triantafel has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Mr President. How are we going to produce energy? How will we produce energy and who will win? For many years capitalism, built on fossil fuels, found the way to view renewable energy production as uncompetitive, inefficient, thus almost utopian. We know how the international mechanisms of the world economy have been imposed: with a specific division of labour, with unequal trading conditions, with a concentration of wealth in capitalist metropolitan groups, with the creation of giant supranational economic groups. Similar standards were also followed for the production, distribution and general distribution of electricity. Today, new, more efficient and less polluting ways of producing, transporting, using and managing energy are being sought, and today what we call alternative forms of energy, clean forms of energy, quickly displace fossil fuels. Why? Was there a greater sensitivity to the environment? I'd say that's the last one. Why, though, have these changes been? There was, first of all, a reduction in stocks. There have been and there have been geopolitical reasons. There were prior geopolitical causes, but at times the geopolitical upheavals are dangerous, for example, the geographical distribution in limited and specific parts of the land of the stock. It is also climate change. All these elements force changes. The objective of energy savings is a key contribution to the rational use of energy. We're going to today's bill, which has a positive sign. I would say that if we look at some points on this bill, we will admit that, as internationally in Greece, especially in Greece, the energy sector is at a transitional stage. We must say that in Greece at the moment there are only a few, only four energy cooperatives. It is a very small number, given that there are over two thousand three thousand energy cooperatives in Europe and the energy transition to clean energy forms represents an important opportunity for what many have said, for the democratisation of energy production and consumption and for the creation of sustainable jobs in the energy sector. This draft law seeks, in turn, to contribute to the country's productive reconstruction plan, a reconstruction that will primarily have a characteristic of sustainable development, taking into account all social, environmental and economic conditions. In particular, we would say that the government's policy on energy cooperatives is being summarised in the creation, first of all, of decentralised production, enabling municipalities, cooperatives, companies to produce energy and, of course, in the emergence of locality. I would like to stay a little on what we call a 'promotion of locality' because it is a very important element of the bill on the one hand and on the other, because I come from a region, from Ioannina, where there are slowly-slow units of electricity generation from the RES. So let us start by saying that the bill highlights in particular this element, the element of the locality and the involvement of local societies in the process of producing and managing energy resources. Thus, it is foreseen that at least 51% of the members must relate to the place where the seat of the energy community is situated. To go to Ieto-Carnania and say that for these units, for the several power plants that come out, the laws that existed in 2010, but also the 2011 laws, the changes that have been made, and the way they have been managed so far by services up to the previous governments sometimes bring a result, which unfortunately is not the right result or, in any case, does not strengthen locality nor strengthen information nor strengthen citizens' participation. Of course I know that we are talking here about something different, a holistic approach and an attempt at a holistic solution to the issue. However, I would like to say that there are very important elements, but also other legislation of the government, such as those which have recently been passed in the bill, let me say the National Register or the provision of forest maps in the previous bills. In fact, the completion of the installation is the first point. Because we cannot talk about an energy design if there is no installation. And I think that the concept of placement is the one that should determine and determine the success of this project. In reality, therefore, the placement was nonexistent and this is precisely what causes problems in different regions of the country, but also in my region of Ioannina, precisely because we see that there have been and there are units located in areas which are protected. We must say, of course, that there is a reaction from local communities, that there is no participation and that there has been no information of local societies. So, in order not to consume time, I will say that the role of local society must be decisive. Information and participation are necessary. However, I must say that there must be other criteria. We need to talk about a national planning that has specific licensing and operational criteria, it will have spatial planning. We have to say, of course, that there must be compensation within them. In Itolo-Carnania, a county of biomass plants, they go to bioliquid plants, there are wind turbines where there were compensatory wind turbines and there is assimilation from local communities, we have to go differently. We need to see this design as a whole. We are not going to do what was done before the photovoltaics, i.e. at the beginning of the dolphins, at high prices, with possible tax reliefs. We'll go differently. Of course, let me say it's a very important bill. It is a bill which can contribute to substantial productive reconstruction, so that there is, firstly, a placement and secondly, respect for the production model, the comparative advantages and ecosystems of each region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Ioannis Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u309	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion is very good, I would venture to say. In fact, we in the Centres have examined the possibility of voting in favour of it. We will, however, limit our support for the 'Services', because this legislative initiative by the Government will also be judged by its proper and effective implementation for which we are not given sufficient guarantees. This does not, of course, change the fact that there are no huge political responsibilities which do not, in fact, concern the current government for what has happened in the energy sector in the past decades. How many of our fellow citizens have come to regret bitterly because they believed too soon than it has been shown that the energy sector would compete on one day with their participation in the tourism sector in GDP? Did all those who believed that Greece has the conditions to claim a sufficient share of the energy market? In my view, and in the view of the Central Association, no. The mistake, whether we consider it justified or not, was that they believed words of air, which then became laws of the air. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we have the luck of living in a country where energy in combination with tourism can be the engine of the Greek economy, a reliable solution to its attempt to find its pace and return to normality, so that we can get out of the crisis. So the bill is moving in the right direction, and that is why we have treated it from the outset with a positive figure. I intended, in fact, to argue about the purpose and importance of promoting the social and solidarity economy and innovation in the energy sector. However, an incident that took place today in the morning Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, of which I am a member, obliges me to use this Stephen for a very critical request in view of the negotiations on the major national issue we are discussing these days. I must therefore make a request in the Minutes for immediate replacement of the UN Ombudsman, Matthew Nimitz. Earlier today, during the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, when I tried to make the same request and argue on it, my intervention was described as outside the subject and under the pressure of my Bureau, the reason was removed before I completed my position and to make this request. So today, when the reverend Hellenism, despite the problems and the darkness it has, has turned its interest in New York and commented on Mr Nimic's unacceptable statements, who dares the Greek Parliament to say a word about this, is judged out of the question? Ladies and gentlemen, the special Ombudsman of the United Nations for Skopje, Mr Nimic, with a view to demonstrating that Greece has no choice but to retreat and accept the use of the word "Macedonia" by the Skopje, has put forward as allegedly a serious argument allegedly a serious person's argument that we agreed as Greeks to give the name already since 1992, that is to say, since we accepted that "M" in FYROM means "Macedonia". The most unsuccessful negotiator ever in the history of the United Nations, in order to cover its own failure and inadequacy, attempts with public statements shortly before the start of the negotiations to zero, to depreciate, and to make the Greeks' refusal to divorce from logic for twenty-seven years and to accept that the earth is flat and that the nations can be made from nothing, from air. If Mr. Nimitz thinks that we have already delivered the name, that we have already lost Macedonia, then what does he want from us? What are these negotiations we're going to do? If we've already lost it, and we've already delivered it all, as they're trying to convince us, then what do we need? What do they expect from us? Can we help them keep the pretexts? Mr Nimic does not enjoy the confidence of the Greeks and we would like to know why the Greek Government did not request the immediate replacement of Mr Nimitz. Does the Greek Government have any confidence in its negotiating skills? What does he have to show as a result of his negotiation, his mediation, except to tell us that the name has been judged before the negotiations begin? At the same time, a government minister, whom I appreciate and respect very much, Mr Amanatidis, says in today's statement: 'What needs to be done is to agree on the way in which the negotiations are to take place. It is important who speaks, how it speaks, when the proposals are made, when the difficulties are, what difficulties are and how they are solved. The negotiations are now starting.' This is supported by the Government with one of the relevant ministers: 'Now we begin negotiations'. Well, now that the negotiations for the government are starting as a Greek MP as a member of Macedonia, as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and National Defence, I ask the Government to submit the request for the immediate replacement of Mr Nimic and the definition by the Secretary-General of the UN of another ombudsman, who can know who was the teacher of Alexander the Great, who was the teacher of Aristotle, who was the teacher of Plato, who was Socrates and what language they were all talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no nations with the counterfeiting of history, with signatures and baptisms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Allow me to say with great respect, because I know that you are a fellow Member in the observance of the Rules of Procedure, that we have reached the point of being completely and unbelievably in breach of the Rules of Procedure. You protested before because they told you that if you were out of the question, you should see the matter again. Why did you protest? Honestly I tell you: is it possible to talk about energy communities and talk to all of you about a subject completely different? I'm sorry to say that, but because you protested, that's why I'm saying it. Panagiotaros spoke in his thirteen minutes of his speech on the subject of FYROM's name.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u311	Would you excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u312	I am sorry, but I am saying this to help everyone so that there is respect for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u313	I have also respected my time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u314	Yes, but you were completely out of the question, not with a derogation, completely out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u315	In plenary as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u316	What's plenary? We are not talking about topicality, however, we are talking about the issue of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u317	Mr. Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur has spoken to us about the bill and has referred in detail to the attitude of the Democratic Association. Of course, you will allow me to say a few words, because the Secretary of State for the Environment is a little confused. I understand they're confused with the New Democracy on the issue of strikes, casinos, and all that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u319	What State Secretary is he referring to? Is there a State Secretary for the Environment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u320	But I hope you know at least, while in your bill you say 'a democratic choice of citizens', you voted, unfortunately, on the obligation to mediation. In other words, on the one hand you are 'democratic' on the other, you are obliged. On the one hand, you bring the law on strikes and on the other you talk about democracy and socialism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u321	Is it not democratic enough for workers to participate much in decisions?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u322	On the one hand, you are reducing the levy on casinos - you have not brought any other reduction in taxation - a reduction of EUR 720,000 to EUR 90,000, and you are fighting with the New Democracy about who is more neoliberal. I think that, in fact, because the New Democracy has an objective problem in this, you have to hold a founding conference together with the New Democracy to find it there, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u323	What do we have in common, and you don't have any conversations...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u324	But let's go now to ours. Minister, you have brought in an amendment. And I think that our wish must be - and I say this because the Secretary-General rightly said so - not to be valid for a year, but must have permanent characteristics. And I think that, as a Democratic Compact, we will support this with all our powers. The issue of Megalopolis, but also of lignite regions, is also a big issue in the post-lining era. I would just remind you that you know - and let me take your version of the "bad" project of "little PPC" - that in Megalopolis there was no unit for sale. With the new plan of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, two units will be sold. The second is that you are bringing a discount today, and the paradox is this: you are putting all western Macedonia on the ground - and I saw Mr Karupidis here too - was in plenary - that is, the Florins and Kozani Prefectures, who, in fact, are members of SYRIZA. And it's right that we go to the Castoria and Grevenes Prefectures, who may have side effects from this whole process. But as far as Arcadia is concerned, which currently has units and in which we sell the two units, we only put the Municipality of Megalopoli. That's a great democracy! SYRIZA's great justice! Let me not say that you are thinking about the Peloponnese MPs, but that's your point. Let the MPs assess it. The citizens of Arcadia, including the neighbouring municipalities, are second-class citizens, according to SYRIZA, with this amendment, while the citizens of Kastoria and Grevenes, who are tens of miles away from Kozani and from Florina, are first-class citizens. We are talking about two categories of citizens. Minister, it is your right, but you will know that you will be judged very strictly. SYRIZA and his MPs will be judged strictly for what is being done today. We have tabled an amendment to you. We did not go to reason, as you did 'gift' to someone, to be the four counties. We took you to what the law says, which is the Arcadia Prefecture and the neighbouring municipalities of the regional units. It's Kalamata, and Elias is some other municipalities. We call on you, even at the last minute, to accept it because it is fair, Minister. We're not asking you for rosphetti for Arcadia and the Peloponnese. We're asking for justice. There's no justice. You sell two units in Megalopoli, no one in Kosani. Minister, would you like me to tell you something? You're not consistent. Not you, your government. I am not just addressing myself personally. Mr. Skourletis said about the sales of the units at the Step of the House on May 19, 2016: "Our strategy is to adapt PPC itself through the partnership strategy and not the violent cut-off of pieces and the divestment of bread - bread, as was your plan." That is what you are doing today, though. Minister, I understand you won't be back. I wish you would, of course, because it is a fair request from all of Arcadia. I expect the New Democracy and the other parties to fight for this process, because it is a question of justice against the citizens of Arcadia, who are not second-class citizens in relation to the citizens of Grevenes and Kastoria. We're not saying you get the device back for Grevena and Castoria. No, not at all. But we ask that you apply it for all of Arcadia, as she deserves. Finally, Mr Minister, I say this: the post-Greek era is a very big issue. As a Democratic Composition we had first tabled on 24 February 2016 - it was Mr Skourletis, I hope you will have some follow-up to all of this - an official proposal for the system for the allocation of revenues from auctioning of indisposed greenhouse gas emission rights for the period 2016-2020: a percentage of them, not 20%, to go for the development of the post-lining era in these areas. Only in this way will there be a post-linguistic era with employment, and there will be projects which will create conditions for the development of the region. Unfortunately, Mr Skourletis then said he would do it very soon - I have his statements and I am presenting them to you - he said that, next year, all this will be done. He left the ministry. Today we have 2018 and unfortunately, Mr Minister, nothing has happened. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We wait, even at the last minute. We invite you and we invite you not to blame the citizens of Arcadia and the neighbouring municipalities of the regional units. Otherwise there is a big question of justice: there are two categories of citizens for SYRIZA and the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u325	Mrs. Tyloridou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is understandable that the discomfort and anxiety of opposition, when it is trying to degrade the issues that this bill solves and criticises, is understood. It was also heard by the previous colleague, who left the Chamber, about PPC's special invoice for the whole of western Macedonia. It would be good if it were here to know that for decades, due to PPC's operation in western Macedonia, the Regional Unity of Kastoria and Greven lost millions of euros from financial instruments, because PPC's budget was high per capita income. Result? Kastoria Regional Unit: The Youth Unemployment Unit in Europe. The same applies to the Grevenes, and I think that what is being done today with the Ministerial Amendment is not a gift to our region, but it is the restoration of the injustice that has to be done. I also understand the anxiety and discomfort of Castoria's officer, who is trying to degrade this issue, saying 'will it apply forever?'. Apparently, it will be from now on. Let us remind you, however, that this measure for the 30% reduced invoice to PPC's accounts comes in return to the inhabitants of western Macedonia, who for decades have been breathing and living under the figs. This has not been done in our region for the last three years SYRIZA's government. What have they done all these years to show their interest in these people? They didn't want to know, they didn't want to think about it and they had the political courage today to criticize us. Second theme solved by this bill: the supply of natural gas from the TAP pipeline. The Regional Unit of Kastoria is the second to an extent that passes through the TAP pipeline. No forecast of gas supply in our area. We were just the ombudsmen. Because especially in 2012, when discussions on which cities will take gas from TAP, no one in Kastoria was interested and nowadays they come to criticize us. This is called a lack of self-respect, a lack of respect for citizens and a lack of self-criticism! They are given 12.5m euros by this government, so that the quarantines that exist in western Macedonia are converted into gateways of exit, and at last Castoria, Argos Origos and Maniki to take natural gas. Third theme, locally, which solves this bill: it gives the right to a Household Control Zone to have exhibitions in order to carry out reports. This problem is indeed solved for the link "Supplier Elias". It's a decade's problem. They didn't know. Has anyone ever been involved and today they came here to turn the debate on the bill on energy communities into a debate on the fur industry, to tell us what? What have they done all these years? Did they deliver or didn't deliver a producer by 95% in a terrible state of export? I think the political audacity is too much. When they had the historical responsibility, they were practicing it. Today they have the courage to criticize us. But the world also has a crisis, it also has a perception. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is indeed a very serious bill, a tool now in the hands of the citizen for a different energy policy at another time. It gives a solution to the problem caused by conventional fuels as well as to the environmental burden they cause by reducing stocks, but also to the problem of increasing the demand for energy. There is now an opportunity for a different 'green' environmental management in the energy sector. Energy democracy is being guaranteed and energy poverty is being hit. Renewable energy sources are environmentally friendly and our own government wants them to be friendly to the citizen. This allows for participation in the production and distribution of energy from local societies. The use of this bill can be made by enterprises, by entities, by local authorities and by individuals. We are talking about decentralised energy production, with locally-oriented and involving all stakeholders at local and regional level. We are talking about another example of governance that is aimed at local and regional development. This bill brings about radical changes. It promotes innovation, energy efficiency, self-production, partnerships, lowering energy costs and strengthening the social economy. I support it and want to see it coming from this step to thank on behalf of the Regional Unit of Kastoria, but also of Western Macedonia, the leadership of the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Government, because this bill actually gives signs of writing about the interest we have in a region that has been in isolation and neglected for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u327	Mr. Kasapidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, the bill we are debating today gives another perspective to the energy productive environment throughout the country, as it creates conditions and conditions for collective schemes, which may also be the whole thing to do for the success of our country and for other economic, social and all kinds of objectives. It is therefore a question of collective effectiveness. That is why we support it as a new democracy. In fact, I think it is a field of composing forces, as the energy sector is the top of the economy and production process in the country, where we hope and strive to bring about a positive result, today as a government and we as the opposition, tomorrow as the government and you as the opposition. So, where we can find common fields of action, I think the fruitful dialogue helps. That's how New Democracy dealt with this bill. I would also like to emphasise and highlight the decision you made as government to grant this aid, as you are writing in the amendment, to the consumption of electricity in western Macedonia and to praise it. It is indeed a measure that relieves the inhabitants of western Macedonia and I believe that it will create this surplus, as reflected in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, of EUR 17 million and through this aid we hope will be exploited in the local economy. However, in addition to this justification in the amendment, that you are granting this aid - and I stress it as aid, because it has already been heard that it is a specific invoice, but at least as shown in the amendment it is not a specific invoice, it is an aid and it is likely that it is related to the documentation with which this amendment has to be justified in order not to conflict with other difficulties - because of the environmental burden of lignite, this is an acceptable and acceptable documentation. After all, in our region money is given to a lignite fee as a compensation for this burden, the so-called "local Development Fund". The major problem, however, Mr Minister, you do not take it with this amendment. The major result of all these years, which our governments have been unable to resolve because there were legal obstacles, is the deprivation of financial resources through development programmes because of the increased GDP presented by western Macedonia, precisely because of the activities of PPC. That is why we were not either in the increased incentives of many development laws and were excluded from some other programmes. Clearly the reduction in the electricity price for household consumption, as I have told you, is positive and will alleviate. This is not the greatest anguish of the Western-Macedonian. Our greatest anxiety is that of jobs and employment, which, unfortunately, were not motivated by entrepreneurs to create, because of this lignite overactivity of PPC in our region. But that is not the case so far. And I'm talking to a second native, because I think we're like each other. I think you want to solve this, too. Here, then, I would like to point out and I urge you to make greater emphasis and soon to bring in a specific invoice for entrepreneurial energy consumption, that is, business activities that have a specific tariff for energy in those areas that are environmentally affected, but also developmental. In this direction, I had also submitted to the then Minister, Mr Sufah, a proposal to create a centre for energy developments in central Macedonia based in Kozani and Ptolemais, this axis. The thought was to transform the energy centre of the country based on lignite into a centre of energy developments, where it would host all the technologies of energy production of modern forms and lignite, but also from other forms, such as renewable sources, hydrogen technology, transport technologies that will find ever more applications in our country, so that these technologies can welcome our country through transfer of know-how or through the development of technological research in the region. We have the University, the TEI, the ITAK. This research, which will give some results, will apply to a specific institutional framework of administration and economy in the region of western Macedonia, where these favourable criteria and incentives will come and invest and produce this equipment. Mr President-in-Office, I think it is not the major thing to alleviate consumption, but to stimulate investments in energy and content in the region of western Macedonia. Basic principles through this proposal for the creation of the Energy Centre are that Western Macedonia should maintain its energy identity, which it has conquered for years. Because as lignite shrinks, the less the jobs, the less the megabaters produced are reduced, the less the identity is weakened. We can strengthen this by means of these actions that I have said. The second aim is to maintain the existing jobs, which are currently based on electricity production. However, those who will be lost will be restored by other industrial or craft jobs, based on energy, energy equipment and modern forms. Thirdly, we should accept and recognise here in this House that western Macedonia will be the country's energy region and that it will represent, when this body, the country internationally. Because there are many councils, many conferences in countries around the world taking decisions, developments are being discussed, and on several occasions it was - and I think that it is now still - that the country is absent. I also participated in a conference of this kind in Nice, France, dealing with hydrogen technology and electricity and fuels. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Fourthly, another basic principle that we can serve through the Centre for Energy Development in Western Macedonia is energy planning. With regard to this famous energy planning, institutional - if you like - and symbolically, it is good that this committee meets in western Macedonia and gives these guidelines for maximisation, first of all, energy self-sufficiency in the country, but also productive activities in this direction, to be carried out in Western Macedonia as well. I have tabled this proposal to your predecessor, Mr Minister, Mr Skourletis. I think it has a substantial content. To continue this debate, this dialog and to achieve a result, in the context of this collective effectiveness, which I said at the beginning of my speech. Thank you very much, Mr President, for accepting the request for a late speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u329	Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Mr President, for so much time, two or three minutes. I would like once again, as I have said in my protology, to emphasise again that the bill is indeed a positive bill, as the representatives of operators have pointed out. It treats the citizen with honesty and enables all citizens to become the same producers of electricity, through groups and not only professionals, namely farmers, businessmen, etc., but also households. Even within the urban centers, houses, houses, houses, etc. have the possibility of making use of this possibility. Once again I heard, of course, the representative here at PASOK... Of course now, how are we gonna say it? PASOK will we call it the Democratic Reconciliation? Now, of course, she has a new name, a change movement, and you know a lot of names...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u331	The vapour is important!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u332	That's exactly where the problem is. Because, as I said this morning in my protology, the loans of the two parties have not been served.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u333	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u334	So we'll have to treat them with special attention. In other words, they are opposition to the opposition. Some comments were made on casinos. I personally am against casinos. But who have legalized them and brought them to this country? Who opened the casinos? These two parties, the New Democracy and the PASOK. And now they're swinging the casino finger. But the establishment of a casino is also included in the investment of the Greek. So, what would happen? If there is no possibility of making a casino, the investment of the Greek is at stake. Didn't they speak, a few weeks ago, about the Greek investment? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be in less than a minute, Mr. President. I would like to remind you that the RES case had been dealt with in a way that it exposed both the citizens and PPC itself. They made contracts, forced PPC to make contracts and buy electricity from RES at a price three times as much as the corresponding German PPC purchased from PV producers. You know, our country has three times the sunshine, that is, we should have done things backwards, and we should have bought one third of what German PPC bought. And they signed such contracts. We're talking about tragic things. In any case, I will close up here saying that we need to take care of Western Macedonia. Indeed, dependence on electricity production and the export and management of lignite is great and reaches 25%, you know that, in western Macedonia and Kosani, it is 50%.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u335	Please complete, Mr. Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u336	And I agree that we need to look at these things, that is, somewhere to plan and be alternative, not to lose its identity, to Western Macedonia, which is interwoven with electricity generation and to connect it to green growth. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u337	Mr. Mavrosh has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u338	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall deal briefly only with two issues. Minister, because you did not answer the question we asked about the budget for publicity expenditure on the energy upgrading of dwellings, for the five pro-government newspapers who received 20,000 of the 200,000 total funds - you said we would see it in parliamentary control - I would like to say that yes, we will see it in parliamentary control. We simply need to catch up with the corresponding cases that will go to newspapers, radio and television, that is to say, not to go back to pro-government. It is a pity that the same tactics should be followed, which you have rightly denounced in the Committee of Inquiry into the loans of parties and the media. The second relates to the National Energy and Climate Commission, which you said was a first step. Right, it's a first step, as long as it's not wrong. Because, from what I see here here in the act of the Ministerial Council in the preamble, he says: "We take into account the need for an advisory body to be represented by the co-legislative state, social and productive bodies, as well as market representatives in the energy sector, etc.." In the 20-year-old committee, they do not exist. On the contrary, there is a representative of the political office of the Minister for the Environment and a representative of the Deputy Minister for the Environment's political office. This is something you should see so that the first step does not go wrong. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that with regard to the amendment and the favourable status which will apply to the entire region of Western Macedonia and only to one municipality, for the municipality of Megalopolis, you also understand that this legislation is asymmetrical. There is a mismatch in legislating and we do not think that the sum is so great that there is a restoration of the concept of law. We will be voting in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u339	We thank you, Mr Mavrotas, and in particular for the excellent perception of time. Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Mr President. I just want your tolerance beyond the two-minute. I will not go into the arguments put forward by the SYRIZA Members in support of the bill, not only because I do not have time in dentistry, but because some arguments do not even stand against it. So, what would you say, Mr Stathakis, when you heard that the bill is in an anti-monopoly direction?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u341	He's clearly here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u342	Is she? Is he in an anti-monopoly direction? So all you don't say is that the forces that support it, like the New Democracy and the PASOK, are antitrust forces. We're going crazy! Anyway, I would like to focus more on the softest approach of the Minister. It is a step, a positive step, and it is a good thing, because this is done in agreement with both the other parties of opposition and with the actors of society. With the positive step we will not disagree, Minister, but in what direction is this positive step you say? We were clear. We say that this bill is in the direction of further implementing the European Union's general energy policy, in the direction of liberalisation of the energy market. There was no serious argument against this. So let's assume you agree. For this basic reason, because this bill is in this direction, we disagree and we will therefore vote against it. There was a controversy between the government and the other parties. In particular, you are accused of this: 'You were saying more.' The substance, however, is not what you were saying. The essence for the people, however, lies in what you are doing today. And what you are doing today, and they too, agree and agree fully, and, in our opinion, that is the main thing. In other words, they also agree with the energy communities and the energy stock exchange itself, and in general with the further liberalisation of the energy market and the privatisation of PPC. So, in fact, you're agreeing and fighting, confront yourself, to say it better, to the secondary ones. You will tell me: “What is the problem, that is? Is it wrong to have a consensus, even on certain matters?' Yes, the bad thing is that this agreement is being made on the basis of an anti-popular policy, on the basis of an anti-popular direction. The results of this anti-grassroots energy policy, our people are living in their minds. I referred to my prototype in that. It has led to energy poverty, essentially, a large part of the populace, despite the opportunities to satisfy these needs. I would like, because there is no time, to stand on two issues on the road. One has to do with the ministerial amendment. As a whole, we disagree with the amendment and we will vote against it, because the amendment itself is in line with the logic I mentioned earlier. But I would like to refer to the paragraph or Article 4 - as you wish, say it - of the amendment. First of all, we will not have an intentional trial if it is election or, at any rate, the government's sensitivity. But we want to point out to the people of western Macedonia and Arcadia that they do not only see the turf, but also see the lentil as a whole. What's the flashlight? The privatization of lignite plants is currently in full process. In any case, regardless of this measure, you have to incorporate any reactions of the people of the region and of the people in general, so that this privatisation, the sale of the units, can go through with the smallest resistance. We therefore call on the people, despite any promises to organise their struggle against this privatisation, to put their mark on these developments. I would like to say this: I do not know how the vote will be taken. If it becomes uniform, we will vote against the amendment. I'm telling you. Of course, for this particular article, Article 4, we declare 'Paris'. If it is done separately, it will be expressed by our vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u344	There is also an extension to islands that are not interconnected. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u345	All right, Mr. Vardalis. We shall hear them in the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u346	We do not want to say that these units must be shut down, but it could be done in a different way. But I don't have any more time to develop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u347	Mr. Maniotis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u348	Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to say a word, but I was provoked. I have to reply to some comments from both the ministers and colleagues. How can this government be termed? I will give her four designations, and then I will substantiate them: the government of self-deception, the government of bipolar disorder, the government of arrogance and the grief and the government of suspicious transactions. Let's see, am I right? Government delusion: ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, do you think that this is a major revolution? It is a positive development, we have said, from the outset, but it leaves behind the respective cooperatives in the agricultural sector. It is indeed a regulation that does not even have an operational plan. At the same time, however, deception becomes a political fraud, because a few days ago you legislated on electronic auctions. Today the increased insurance contributions for small and medium-sized enterprises, by the ECA, were posted. Today we have been posted and today we read that there is a serious possibility that a 3 000 euro tax reduction will come from 2019 together with a reduction in pensions. Of course, the illusion is that the so-called left government has reduced both VAT and taxation on casinos. That is why, in my position as rapporteur in the Multi-project, I said that instead of a Radical Left, you can call yourself what 'caustic left'!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u349	All right, well, the plan's over, and the time's up, Mr. Maniatis. He was ahead of the end of the plan two or three days ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u350	Are we going to comment on the rapporteur now? The President is not a commentator.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u351	Is that possible? Aren't you gonna let me finish? Please. So I said that the government has a second character: the government of bipolar disorder or other political surrealism. I heard the government's proud of TAP. I'm glad she's proud of TAP. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Minutes, when we brought the TAP Convention in the summer of 2014 - I recommended the Convention as Minister - and let them see what they said. Of course, it is very positive - a second phenomenon of bipolar disorder! - that when we brought the provision for 500 KW, TWGs can establish themselves as self-producers and self-consumers, SYRIZA voted against it. And today the Minister comes and increases it! Instead of 500 KW, it does 1 MW. Even late, let's accept the error. Third government designation: arrogance and enthusiasm. Minister, it is arrogance and audacity for you to talk about land uses when we had ready, legislated the National Earth Use System since 2014 and today that we have been discussing, after the cancellation of this chapter of the law - you canceled it - the country has no National Earth Use System. Because you were supposed to make a presidential decree, which has not yet been to the Council of State, or even if it has not gone back. However, the country has not had a National Earth Use System for three years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is therefore arrogant and arrogant to speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u352	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u353	Mr President, please give me five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u354	The invigoration principle is in place here. We respect our colleagues and respect ourselves. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u355	I say, therefore, that it is arrogant and courageous that this government should speak of regional planning when it received twelve ready-to-end regional planning for the 12 regions of the country and after three years it has approved only one of Crete. It is courage and arrogance for the government to speak of spatial planning, because it received the spatial tourism in March 2015, which had been cancelled by the Council of State for absolutely typical reasons, and after three years today, the country continues to have no spatial tourism.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u356	Please, Mr. Maniotis, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u357	Mr President, a warm request, as rapporteur and since our parliamentary representative has not taken advantage of his time...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u358	What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u359	Please give me another three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u360	There is no time borrowing from the Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u361	You'll give me another three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u362	Other loans exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u363	It is courage and arrogance that the current government speaks about environmental protection when it does not implement the programming contract, which we signed in 2014, Ministry of the Environment, Bank of Greece and the Academy of Athens on the impact of climate change on Greece and of course when it does not exploit the national biodiversity protection strategy, the first national strategy that Greece acquired in 2014. It is courageous and arrogant to speak about the electrical interconnection of the islands. You received in 2015, six months to "run" the contracts for the electrical interconnection of the Cyclades, 130 million. It should have surrendered, under the contract, in the summer of 2016. We will go summer 2018, the first phase of the electrical interconnection of the Cyclades will not be implemented and you will oblige the Greek citizens to pay for services of general interest in excess of EUR 150 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u364	Mr Maniotis, last call from the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u365	Mr President, you interrupted me. I, too, am the rapporteur, and our parliamentary representative has not spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u366	Mr. Lazarides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u367	It is courageous and arrogance that the government speaks of smart networks, because smart networks were opened as a competition in 2014. They're going to serve two hundred thousand families. It's a 80 million-dollar project, and after three years you've done nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u368	Put an end to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u369	And I conclude, Mr President, with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u370	What do you want? Can I turn off the microphone?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u371	You're capable of closing my microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u372	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u373	I'm saying, could you turn me off my microphone?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u374	But if you're capable of talking until tomorrow? How can I react?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u375	I repeat, I'm ending.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u376	I had to speak so much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u377	I talked about the Suspected Trading Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u378	I want to hear that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u379	We don't need a pediatrician here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u380	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u381	Ladies and gentlemen, I will present for the Minutes the 2012 National Energy Plan, a set of seventy-five pages,...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u382	Do you give up in favour of Mr. Manatis, Mr. Screka, if I understand correctly?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u383	I am in favour of the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u384	If I understand correctly, that's what you're doing. Resign in favour of Mr. Maniatis. Well, you don't have any dentistry. Mr. Maniots covered you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u385	...at no cost. National Energy Planning 2012. I present for the Minutes also the second National Energy Plan 2014, a total of sixty-five pages, no cost. And the current government comes and says, in Article 16, that it calls for the approval of 400 grand to direct the new National Energy Plan!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u386	This is how you finish, Mr. Maniots?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u387	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u388	You're hiding something. And because you have to tell us what you are hiding - because it is obviously not just incompetent - I will repeat what my colleague said, to finish with our amendment - which I regret that you have not accepted, Minister - on the subject of Megalopolis and Arcadia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Constantinople said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u390	We will support the fact that the electricity supply, EUR 42 per megawatt, is being given to the inhabitants of western Macedonia. We're not asking you to do that all over the Peloponnese. We consider, however, absolutely fair in Arcadia, not just in the Municipality of Megalopoli, but in Arcadia and in the neighbouring municipalities of the neighbouring regional communities to apply the same status as for western Macedonia. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u391	The lack of respect for the Bureau is a lack of self-respect. Mr. Screka, you have resigned in favour of Mr. Maniatis, as far as I'm concerned. You've been covered and over-covered, I'd say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u392	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u393	No, you've got it covered. You told me beforehand. You'll talk another time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u394	You didn't follow the line of the parties, but that doesn't mean we quit.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u395	After you've been over-covered. How much more do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u396	I have a few things to complete, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u397	There you go, take the floor. For exaggeration now, not for anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u398	I have listened very carefully to what Mr Famelos said. I wanted to say this: by constantly trying to zero what the government has received from the previous ones to show that what it is doing now is something very big, something very important, I think it does not offer services to this place. I have listened very carefully, Minister. Did you talk about the future plan for the extension of natural gas networks, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u399	About '17-18. Half of it's done, the other half's gonna be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u400	I would first like to say that everything that has been done so far and what you have received from the previous governments has been done, so it is good not to tie it down. Natural gas was in Thessaloniki - I put it when I was a student - but also in Trikala and in Athens and in other cities.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u401	Twenty years without extensions. It's happening now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u402	Calm down and listen, because I'll tell you everything about the extensions. So it's good not to zero the rest of you to say it's something fantastic that you're doing. First of all, what you are doing, namely having the possibility of integrating these networks into the new ETUC and being financed, is due to some cause. Do you know what this is about? It is that the previous government, with Minister of Energy, Mr Maniotis and Minister of Development, established this to be eligible for this expenditure in the new ETUC. We submitted the 17 projects on December 2014 eves and Greece was the first country to obtain approval of all programmes by the European Commission so that any next government will not lose one day from the new ETUC and so move on to the investments that had to be made in the country. I see, however, with today's figures that 800 million, which could have already been spent and made gas networks, you have not used them. It is money that is available in the European Union, they are waiting for the Cohesion Funds and your Government has not used them. I really ask you to tell me why you did not use them, because that money was there and so they are missing from infrastructure today. Another thing: in terms of the circular economy, the sustainable productive model, you understand that a cyclical economy or a productive model of sustainability first means rational management and use of the mineral resources and the wealthy sources of this country. Giving financial aid, which - I repeat - I have not heard from the Minister whether it will be just for a year or the ministerial decision that you will decide whether it will be for a long time, that is, for the next few years, the financial aid of around EUR 17 million, firstly, does not replace the reduction of the heating oil subsidy in the respective regions. I will tell you that a household consumes about 7,000 KWh, or 7 MWh a year, which means that if it could be a beneficiary it will take 42 euros a year, that is, 280 euros a year, when the same household with 100 square feet in western Macedonia received a heating allowance over 500-600 euros. So you don't even give him half of what you've taken from him. I say that so as not to fool people and not to fool each other. Secondly, I would like to say to you that in the next ten years, if this is the case, we will give some 200 million in financial aid. But, with 200 million - I say - do you not come to give these people a chance to improve their households, upgrade them with energy, so that they have half the energy consumption in summer and winter and have a half the electricity account and a half the energy account, and do we not keep on subsidising them with money that is finally going to the black hole and burning a lignite that is something expensive and limited, but produces also pollutants? This is not a circular economy, Minister for the Environment - you understand that - nor is it a sustainable model of a productive economy. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u403	So do we. We'll be done with Mrs. Gara's dentistry. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to make one comment, following today's debate, but having followed the debate in the committees. I think the bill has been discussed in detail. However, I would like to point out the embarrassment and possibly the secret jealousy of some wings, some parties from the Opposition. It is a secret jealousy for an absolute institutional framework that is being voted on today. This is illustrated by the fact that we had almost no comment on the substance of the legislation. On the contrary, representatives of other parties or almost all parties chose to discuss Skopje, yesterday's polynomial plan, provoke artificial tensions, discuss PPC. I would point out that in his first suggestion, Mr. Screkas was not mentioned for five seconds in this piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u405	It was more than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u406	Not even for five seconds. You talked 15-and-a-half minutes about PPC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u407	It was ten, I counted it. Without PPC there are no energy communities.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u408	In conclusion, the last comment I would like to make is that several of the representatives of the parties in the opposition, unfortunately, cannot understand that the major revolutions are made with the new ideas and are done with the organisation of everyday life. They cannot understand that an organised institutional framework in a new idea that incorporates collectiveism, the logic of cooperation, the logic of innovation, the use of technology, and above all an organised institutional framework with financial incentives, which enables new jobs to be created and, above all, increased activity in the construction sector, yes, it can bring great revolutions to our everyday lives and even great revolutions in an environmentally and modern European logic. It is what we need in the country, just to get away from it, to take the big positive step in an entirely opposite direction to the policy that the previous governments have been conducting for so many years and have brought us here. I therefore call on all colleagues and all the groups of Parliament to vote in favour of this bill and not just this, but to be able collectively from our side, to inform the citizens who are interested in getting into this story and to go hand in hand, in order to take the small positive step towards the great revolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u409	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Businesses and other provisions'. The Minister has the floor for a brief outline.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u410	I would just like to make two points which have been raised. I'll stay within the bill. I'm not going to follow the SYRIZA psychoanalysis from the Democratic Compact. They also suffered psychoanalysis from New Democracy in the polynomial plan, about what SYRIZA is, how it is mutated and what is happening, but I think it is not the moment to talk about it. We'll analyze it another time. Used psychoanalytical terms: bipolar disorder and various others. So I'm going to stay within the bill. I have an answer for Ikaria. As you know, in the structured environment law we had passed a provision to enable the contract to be signed and the project to function. We'd done it for Tello and for St. Stratis. It's three cases. They were plays that had been pending from the past. Last week the RAE sent the opinion provided for the ministerial decision. The contract will be signed to put the project into operation. PPC Renewables is ready to sign of course and the completion of the project is, during PPC Renewables in November 2018. So that's why I said surely it's going to happen within the period. I called it humorous, but I really meant it. So it's going to be the play, and it's fast. The second issue concerns the bill. I think it is very important that we reach a broad consensus. It's a big step. The tools, which must support us, are important to discuss in the very near future. But surely the tools will be activated for an additional reason, that society will embrace this bill. Obviously there will be a period of information and discussion. But messages from everywhere are very encouraging by institutions, such as the Orthodox church in Chania, which has already held workshops and conferences ahead of the bill, to the municipalities. We have a lot of preparations from too many municipalities, regions, groups of local entrepreneurs that are indeed active in processing, tourism and elsewhere. So I think it's a mature bill, which people are about to implement. And the good examples will be imitated by many. We are indeed calling on the issues of funding and technical support to be finalised very soon, after today's vote on the bill. Once again, I believe that the issue of Western Macedonia has been answered by all sides. Western Macedonia, apart from having, in its vast majority, heavy lignite production, in total, as a region, lacks cohesion resources for too many years because of per capita GDP. So we must be clear: our initiative recognises this given, that it has been lacking such resources for many years. We need to deal with it uniformly, and this is what we have tabled. In Arcadia, under the circumstances, we have chosen exactly the municipality, which has lignite production, to support exactly the same spirit and, of course, taking into account the fact that the other regions and regions of the Peloponnese did not have the obstacle to Western Macedonia as a whole. That was the spirit. I repeat that we took the step in the 2018 budget, which we all know is a difficult budget, but it was a commitment and a desire of the government to go ahead. And in 2018, then, this measure was included in the budget. Obviously, it will continue for the next few years. It's not an election term. Besides, if we wanted it to be, I imagine that the region and local communities have a strong voice to prevent the current government - which will not need - but whatever future it will rethink. I would like to add something very important. The main theme is the post-linguistic period that turns into a major theme for our lignite regions. You know that there is an initiative, involving Greece very actively, an initiative coordinated by the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Shefkovic, responsible for energy issues. Today, Mr Sökovic expressly rewards Greece for the way he participates in these initiatives. So in front of us are the hard ones, and that is where I think we need to unite forces, so that we can take the next steps quickly and effectively. Thank you very much for the debate and the conclusion of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u411	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy is being declared a little further: 'Energy Communities and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u413	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u415	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u416	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u418	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u420	The draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: "Energy Communities and other provisions" was therefore accepted in principle by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u424	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u425	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u427	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u429	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u431	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u433	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u434	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u436	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u438	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u442	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u443	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u447	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u449	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u451	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u452	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u453	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u454	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u456	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u460	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u461	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u463	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u465	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u467	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u469	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u470	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u472	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u474	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u478	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u479	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u481	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u483	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u485	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u487	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u488	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u490	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u492	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u496	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u497	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u499	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u501	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u503	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u504	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u505	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u506	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u510	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u512	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u515	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u519	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u523	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u524	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u528	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u532	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u533	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u535	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u537	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u542	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u546	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u550	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u551	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u553	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u555	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u557	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u558	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u559	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u560	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u562	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u563	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u564	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u568	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u569	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u571	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u573	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u574	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u575	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u576	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u577	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u578	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u579	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u580	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u582	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u583	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u584	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u585	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u586	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u587	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u589	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u591	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u594	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u595	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u596	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u598	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u600	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u602	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u603	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u605	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u609	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u611	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u612	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u613	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u614	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u615	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u616	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u617	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u618	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. We are entering the vote on the amendments. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1444 and a special number 167, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u620	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u621	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u622	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u623	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u624	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u627	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1444 and a special 167 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general figure of 1441 and a special figure of 164?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u629	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u631	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u632	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u634	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u635	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u636	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1441 and a specialist of 164 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1442 and a special number of 165?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u638	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u639	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u640	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u641	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u645	The amendment, by a general number 1442 and a special 165, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1445 and a special number of 168?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u647	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u648	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u649	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u650	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u651	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u652	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u654	Therefore, Amendment No 1445 and a special 168 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 1443 and a special number 166, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u656	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u657	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u658	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u659	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u661	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u663	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1443 and a specialist of 166 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u667	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u668	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u669	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u670	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u672	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Energy Communities and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and on articles. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u674	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u675	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u676	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u677	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u679	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u681	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Energy Communities and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u682	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u683	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Wednesday 8 November 2017 (morning - noon) and Thursday 9 November 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u684	The minutes of Wednesday 8 November 2017 (morning - noon) and Thursday 9 November 2017 were therefore ratified. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-17-S1-commons.u685	With the consent of the House at 18.43' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 18 January 2018 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
