ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u2	Before entering the agenda, I would like to make some announcements. The Ministers for the Environment and Energy, Interior, Foreign, Economic, Administrative Reconstruction, Shipping and Tourism, the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Energy and the Deputy Secretarys of Maritime and Island Policy and Foreign Affairs submitted a draft law on 18-1-2018: "Management of protected areas and other provisions". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that the Special Standing Committee on Road Safety is tabling its report in accordance with Rule 43a(5) of the Rules of Procedure. [[The above-mentioned report is in electronic format in the archive of the Special Permanent Committees Directorate.]] I would also like to remind you that the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee on Population, set up on 22-5-2017, in accordance with Rules 44 and 45 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and for which Parliament's plenary has set a deadline for submitting its report on 31 January 2018, calls for a three-month extension of the operation until 30 April 2018. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u3	So the House unanimously agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the Committee of Inquiry into Inquiry into scandals in the health field in 1997-2014, set up in accordance with Rule 144 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and for which Parliament's plenary has set a deadline for submitting its findings on 21 January 2018, calls for an extension of its operation until 20 April 2018. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u4	So the House unanimously agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before entering the one and only question that will be discussed today, tabled by Mr Sarakiotis to Mr Papapas, I would like to inform you of the following: The second under number 852/16-1-2018, the first cycle (A) of the Member of the Attica of the New Democracy, George Vlachos, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: ‘Elefthening of the coastal front to the citizens of the city’, will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the relevant Minister, Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis, due to outstanding obligations. The third, with number 824/15-1-2018, a top-circuit question (A) by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the relocation of anti-immigration immigrants to host structures and the immediate evacuation of the two informal camps, will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Migration Policy Mr. Mousala, on the grounds that he will accompany the Bulgarian counterpart in Mytilini. The first under number 848/16-1-2018, a second-cycle question (A) by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "Incomprehensible decongestion of the islands of the Eastern Aegean", will not be discussed by the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr. Musala, on the grounds that he will accompany the Bulgarian counterpart in Mytilini. The second question under number 738/3-1-2018 by the Independent MEP 2 in Athens (State) Panagoulis to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the subject: “Extended and dangerous the decision of the “left” Government to cancel asylum at the Air Force officer Ozkainaksi Suleiman”, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Migration Policy, Mr. Muzala, on the grounds that he will accompany the Bulgarian counterpart in Mytilini. The second question, under number 801/11-1-2018, by MP Serres of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Michael Jelloni to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Repayment of producers - Plan for the reconstruction of the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ), will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr.Alexandros Haritsis, due to the unsettled commitments. The second question under number 758/8-1-2018 of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Integration of sewerage networks and sewage treatment of Kontovassina, Levidi and Callianios Arcadias, will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr.Alexandros Haritis, due to unsettled commitments. The first, with number 752/8-1-2018, top-circuit question by MP I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "What goals has our country taken in the battle for climate change?", will it not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr. George Statakis. The first, with number 742/4-1-2018, topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Financing from PPC S.A." the project to improve the road Pournaria - Kyrgyri - Mydria, amounting to EUR 500,000, will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr.Georgeos Stathakis. For these reasons, there is a letter from the Secretary of the Government confirming this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u6	Mr Jelléy, it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, but I understand why. After all, we have told the Conference of Presidents for at least two minutes to give the floor to colleagues. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u7	I take the floor to protest to the Bureau regarding the Minister's absence of presence on an important issue that concerns three thousand farmers who are unpaid for the 2017 crop and in a few days' time they enter a new growing season and do not know whether they should grow or not. Beyond the contempt that they show...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u8	Is this the first time that the topical question has been postponed, or has this happened before?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u9	If it were the first time, I would understand and understand the minister if the misdemeanor were abroad. However, 15 hours before the topical question is discussed, the Minister cannot vaguely invoke unreserved obligations when three thousand producers have received 11 million and do not know whether they will grow these days. It's a big deal. They do not deserve this contempt or the deterioration of parliamentary procedures by the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u10	Your complaint and your protests are very good. The first question under number 845/16-1-2018 by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr.Ioannis Saraciotis, to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "An adequate coverage of television signal and online services in Fthiotida, will be discussed now. Mr. Sarakiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the issue of the insufficient coverage of the television signal across the territory as a result of the contract with the DIGEA network provider is a dispute scandal that bears the seal of the New Democracy and PASOK rule. Hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens have lost their right to information and entertainment with problems mainly relate to remote points either on the continental web or on islands that are not, but not only. Villages and towns of the regional unit of Fthiotis, which are only two hours away from the capital, face a series of difficulties in accessing the television signal. Extensive reports in both the local and the Athenian Press have highlighted the problems of the people of the village of Bardalis, the Municipality of Domokos Fotidos with regard to the incomplete television signal, as well as the Internet services that serve the needs of homes and those at very low speeds. On the basis of this situation in the village of Domokos and following the cooperation with all the municipal authorities of Fthiotis, I would like to point out that there are other similar cases of problematic television, but also of online coverage. I will give you the following examples: Giannitsos, Trilofos, Gardiki, Agios Georgios, Vitoli, and many other mountain villages mainly of the Municipality of Mackomis Sperchiada. Sphaka, Modi, Agia Marina, the Municipality of Amphiclia Elias. Skamnos, Kalamaki, Styrfaka, Hyps, Argyrochori and many more villages of the Municipality of Lamies. Malesina, Martino and Larymna in the municipality of Locras, as well as a large number of villages in the municipality of Domokos. As mentioned above, the cause of the problems is the lack, in terms of coverage of the territory, of a contract by the Greek State with the network provider, the ‘DIGEA’, as signed years ago. It is worth mentioning and an indicative element of the approach which has been drawn up that the contract was signed immediately after the sudden closure on one night of the ERT. It was therefore impossible for the public service broadcaster to take part in the tendering procedure, which was ultimately guaranteed by the public service broadcasting consortium. The problem, however, is not only about Flying, but about many regions throughout the country. According to the official figures, the population coverage of DIGEA rather than the geographic one as originally provided for in the company’s obligations has changed by decision of the previous government to 96,2 %. The provider covered large urban centres and plain areas, but showed little interest in remote and inaccessible areas. In this way, they were excluded from the digital television signal about five hundred thousand of our fellow citizens, as the competent authorities say. In this light, I ask you, Minister: do you consider that the way in which the contract was drawn up between the public and the 'DIGEA' affected the interests of the Greek State? Secondly, what actions do you intend to take in order to ensure that the inhabitants of the above regions are given smooth access to television and Internet services throughout the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u12	Before giving the floor to the Minister, I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question form Monday 22 January 2017. Oh, I'm sorry. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 844/16-1-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Tourism, on "Strengthening the education and training of human resources in the tourism sector". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 849/16-1-2018 by MP Arta, New Democracy, George Stylios, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Illustration picture presents the General Hospital of Artas". 3. The 851/16-1-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the problems of personnel shortages, building infrastructure and equipment at the Hospital of Agios Nikolaos Lassithi. 4. The Question No 820/12-1-2018 by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, Potamios Spyridon Lykoudis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the situation in the Athens student centres. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 775/9-1-2018 of the Greek Communist Party of Athens MP, Liana Kanelli, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "A great deal of the cost of moving soldiers." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question of the merger of 1st and 2nd Municipal Schools of Vonitsas Itolokarnania under number 776/9-1-2018. 3. The Question No 777/9-1-2018 by Congressman I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about foreign-language school books that are on payment to all public high school schools. "B" A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP I Thessaloniki by the Radical Left Coalition Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Health, entitled "Pediatric Hospital in Western Thessaloniki". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 753/8-1-2018 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance on the financing of actions by criminal actions against the Greek public and the allocation of funds for social purposes. 3. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Awkward developments regarding the sale of HNDGS”. 4. The Question No 737/3-1-2018 by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hatzisavvas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Questions regarding the agent's case - Revelations were made by the Minister of National Defence". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 754/8-1-2018 by MP Achaias, New Democracy, Jasona Fotilla, to the Minister of Health, on "In a marginal situation the infrastructures of public hospitals in the country". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Evangelos Karakostas (Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs) asked the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Full the decline of universities." 3. The question asked by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Gregorios Stojannidis to the Minister of Finance, dated 707/2-1-2018, on "Following the licensed number of jobs in casinos". 4. The Question No 708/2-1-2018 by Mr Georgiou Vlachos, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister for Health, on the implementation of the claw back to appropriate health providers and manufacturers, importers, distributors/suppliers of medical devices. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by Mr Athanasios Davakis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Athanasios Davakis, Minister for Health, on 'Recommendation of an EKAV station in Naples Boeon of the Municipality of Monemvasia'. The Minister has the floor, with a relative comfort of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall start with your first question, Mr President, and I shall be glad to say that it is clear that the public has not won this contract. He didn't get a win, firstly, because this competition was a farce competition. It was a competition with a participant. Mostly, the public did not get a win-win, because, from the result, as mentioned in your question, we do not have full coverage of our population in relation to the television signal. I think that there is an issue that we have sometimes had the opportunity to raise, because your question I would say comes in the order of interrelated questions that we have received, not only from members of the SYRIZA, but also from all groups. The fact is, therefore, that too many settlements within the limits of their area of interest do not have a television signal. In other words, we have had the obligation to cover the population, but not the area that has been measured, and not the region. This means that in very critical regions you have a large proportion of the citizens who will not get a signal. They will not receive a signal, precisely because, unlike what is a pan-European trend, the private way has been chosen for the development of a very, very critical network. That is to say, it is a network that needs to be built to guarantee basic access to television coverage and, of course, it was - when it happened - and the switch to the digital signal. The trend in Europe is the opposite. The large networks go back to the public sector, because the private sector, as it proved, cannot fit the needs of citizens who live in areas that are not of commercial interest. It is not possible, where appropriate, for the particular provider to meet the needs of the areas you refer to in your question. Such problems may arise if the state, the government, the regulators and, of course, the House, do not notice the coverage of high-speed internet services. Because our country, like all the countries of the European Union, on the basis of the target of the European Union's digital agenda, must have in 2025 50% of households with high-speed connections on the Internet, 100 Mbps and more. That is an objective that will be followed for the next few years and we should do everything, namely devoting ourselves to the requirements of policy, which we are legislating on, but also to have a regulatory authority that is vigilant, so that providers of telecommunications services can invest in technologies that are compatible with these objectives. I would like to say on the occasion of your question that we will not allow public money to be consumed either Greek or European to be consumed in technologies that will in a very short time be outdated and irrelevant with the objectives and the national digital strategy and the objectives of the European Union. The government has already started an effort to cover all areas which do not have a television signal. I'm going to come back with more detail in my dentistry. In the next few days, the relevant legislation will also be in Parliament. As before, resources from the EMCDDA reserve, the Greek Telecommunications and Post Commission, will be used to cover the entire country and the 'white areas' in particular. We are talking about the four hundred thousand fellow citizens who do not have access to the television signal. This problem is going to be solved. With regard to coverage on the Internet, before you go through your dentistry, I would like to say that of course the Rural Broadband programme has gone too far, there are some settlements that were covered by it and others that weren't covered. The extension of this project, which is in the design phase, will cover all the settlements in the country. In any case, I come here to say the following. We developed the infrastructure. We have spread it to the settlements that were foreseen by the plan. Very nice. We are pleased that this has been recognised at European level. However, if the regulatory authority does not play its part, and if prices do not function in such a way that they reach the final consumer in a way that is compatible with the economic potential of consumers, of the people living in these areas, we will have a hole in the water. Probably a hole in the asphalt. We'll have stretched the wire, but this cable won't say anything, because it'll be incomprehensible for the consumer to get the connection. I call on Members to be vigilant in this matter. I will certainly also call on the regulatory authority to play its part so that these things can be clarified.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u14	Leave something for dentistry, too. Mr. Sarakiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u15	First of all, Mr President, I thank you for the opportunity to extend to a number of issues. Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer and for the first part of the question and the problems that have arisen from the agreement with DIGEA. We are also in the unpleasant position many times when we visit difficult areas and mountain villages in our counties to apologize for the lack of a television signal. The world is not aware of how we got to this point, while the logistics infrastructure was provided by ERT. I wish they could see your answer on television and the residents in the areas mentioned above. I am particularly pleased that the resources, as you have said, have been found and that will come in the coming year of a bill covering the 'white areas', including those I have pointed out. Of course the Members of Parliament are also here to help us by noting bad texts, omissions and mistakes that are being made, but also by helping the work of the ministers and the services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u16	What I am going to say now is as a friendly advice from an old man and it is not about Mr Pappas - because I do not know whether it is a coincidence when I preside over Mr Pappas is here and answer - because I think it is one of the tactical ones: it is an obligation for all the governments to be present at the parliamentary control of Members of all the groups. It's within the basic obligations of their ministerial role. That is why Members do not need to thank the ministers because they are present. They're obligated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u17	I referred to the Minister's extensive answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u18	Yes, you said it because of your bourgeois courtesy. I said it was friendly advice. I don't get it. Because, if we start to thank the ministers, they will spoil even more - I mean, over time, that, to be clear - and they will not fall through at all. We're going to Mr. Pappa now for his denology. Since we have you here, Minister, if you please, give us further information on where the licences for television channels are located. If you want. You don't have to. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u19	Sure. I shall begin by saying that Mr Sarakiotis has civil and labour courtesy, because he is a Labour MP.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u20	You know he's my friend, that's why you said that!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u21	Now, with regard to licences, as you know, the National Broadcasting Council has proceeded very quickly in procedures in an excellent way and is currently in the process of checking the dossiers of candidates. The process of controlling financial resources has begun and I think we are half a step ahead of completion. There are very useful conclusions from the whole process and I think that won will be the political system as a whole, our democracy and the state. I will not claim the monopoly for my relinquishment of battle against a situation of lawlessness and interlocutory and a situation in which some have found the opportunity to press the state on the neck. I think, however, that some steps have been taken here which will ultimately have a positive impact on the whole political system and on the way the media operates in Greece. Mr Sarakiotis, in spring 2017 the implementation of the action concerning the border regions and our islands to cover the television signal through satellite reception began. This programme is going very well. It is already over seven thousand households who have made use of this right. It is precisely because we and the regulatory authority and the satellite signal providers have developed the know-how of how this programme will be developed, I urge you to convey to your region that we have the way and the resources have been found so that this action can go ahead, complete. And, of course, we also hope, in the next few days to come to Parliament, that it will be voted on by the broadest possible majority. We have already commissioned the development of an economic study for this action with a specialised external consultant and the General Secretariat for Telecommunications and Posts has been contacted with the municipalities so that a first record can be recorded. I would like to invite you to make a communication with the local authorities in your region, too, so that we can cross-check if the first list of areas that are not able to watch television has been completed. These records will also be cross-checked with the EMCDDA, which has competence and I think we can move forward. I would also conclude by saying, because other European money will be spent on the connections and spreading of the fibre network to the rest of our province, which at the moment do not have the possibility, that it is extremely important for us to have the vigilance and the government and the Parliament and the regulator - and I have reason to repeat this - to do so precisely so that the product of the high-speed connection can reach the consumer at low prices. Something needs to be done so that Greece can stop being in Europe with the most expensive and slowest Internet. This cannot continue, of course, to continue to allow situations of market distortion to continue. Here both the Government and Parliament and the regulator must stand up to the circumstances. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Before we close, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 ‘Prime responsibility of the Ministers’, as in force, on 18-1-2018: Firstly, there is a criminal court order concerning the former Deputy Minister of the Interior, Christos Marcoyannakis, and the former Deputy Minister of Civil Protection Mr. Spyros Vouyas. Secondly, criminal case law concerning the former Ministers, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Labour and Social Security and Solidarity respectively, Mr Philip Sahinides, Georgios Koutromanis, Andreas Loverdos, Christos Stakoura, Ioannis Vroutzis and Marios Salmas. Thirdly, criminal proceedings concerning the former State Secretary for Sports Mr Andreas Fura. Fourthly, criminal proceedings concerning the Minister of National Defence Mr Panagiotis Kammenos. And, fifthly, criminal court order concerning: former Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr Nikolaos Friend, former Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr.Theodore Dritsa and former Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Ithanasias Anagnostopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-19-S1-commons.u23	With the consent of the House at 10.42 seconds, the sitting for the next Monday, January 22, 2018, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
