ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 18-5-2018 mandate, PLACY's minutes were confirmed on Friday 18 May 2018 by the Bureau.]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Ladies and gentlemen, I will first announce the questions that will not be discussed. The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogero, informs Parliament that they will not be discussed by the relevant ministers as a result of their impediment: The first, with number 1641/15-2018, top-level question by MP Preveza of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Barkas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Urgent needs to serve the Paris, Canalaki and Philippida Centres in Prevezis" will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr. Xanthos abroad and specifically in Geneva. The third, with number 1645/15-2018, top-circuit question of the F' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Lack of gamma-globin preparations", will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Xanthos abroad and specifically in Geneva. The fifth under No. 1557/26-2018 topical question for the second cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Conservation of the beneficial provisions of Law 4368/2016", will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr. Xanthos abroad and specifically in Geneva. The sixth question under No. 1546/24-2018 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, New Democracy, Jason Fotella, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Revelations on CEDEFOP that expose the head of the Ministry of Health", will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr. Xanthos abroad and specifically in Geneva. The third question with number 3727/23-2-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Larisa of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "It is a worrying increase in measles cases", will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr. Xanthos abroad and specifically in Geneva. The first, with number 1640/15-2018, topical question in the New Democracy Parliamentary State, Nikis Kerameos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'Does the Government finally have a draft on how to introduce into higher education?', will it not be discussed because of the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Gavroglou, because of a workload? The third, with number 1618/8-5-2018, topical question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Problems of the Department of Architecture of the University of Patras", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr.Gavroglou. Cause: workload. The fourth, with number 1622/8-5-2018, topical question of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "For the successors of the eight-month competition for the two Larissa Hospitals, it will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis. Cause: workload. The second question with number 4226/9-3-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Laconia of the New Democracy, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of Health, on the dispatch of two ambulances to the EKAV Molas and the support of medical, nursing and administrative staff of the Prefecture of Laconia, will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis. Cause: workload. The ninth under No. 1518-17-2018 topical question from the Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the problems of four million borrowers, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment - outstanding obligations - of the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotou. The first question with number 4017/2-3-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The requirement of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) for the signing of the 3rd Memorandum loan contract by the Hypotension (Greek Company of Participants and Property SA)", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment - committed obligations - the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotos. The seventh ninth No. 1538/23-2018 topical question for the Second Circuit of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: “The need for an increase in military service”, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Kouveli. The eighth under No. 1539/23-2018 topical question from the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the participation of military teams in a party course of the KKE", will not be discussed as a result of an obstruction by the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Kouveli. The second under number 1588/3-5-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the future of the Greek Defence Industry", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Kouveli. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, fifty-nine students and students and a fellow teacher from the University of Athens Law School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We will begin with the second under number 1639/15-2018, a timely question from the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Christos Dimas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Abrogation of the Special Consumption Tax (VAF) on wine". The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Catherine Papanatziou, will answer. Mr. Dimas, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-21-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, by decision of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL from 1-1-2016, a excise duty of 20 minutes per litre has been imposed on wine. This special tax is today a major problem of competitiveness for winemakers, winegrowers, traders and even consumers. More specifically, the final product is charged with 4% reservations in favour of a Special Institute for Quality Control and Production of Alcohol and Alcohol Beverages, 2% cartoon, 20% reservations in favour of OGA in 20% of this total, 24% VAT in total. In a particularly heavy tax product and a dynamic product, which must normally be promoted in order to make it even more exportable, you have put a new tax. In addition, you did not collect the revenue you had budgeted for at least 2016. Of EUR 55 million that you had budgeted, you raised EUR 24 million. However, the imposition of excise duty on wine also has other consequences. It created conditions for an extensive and uncontrolled increase in the market economy, reduced domestic demand, reduced the competitiveness of Greek wine, increased the functional costs of winemakers, reduced the financial contribution of the wine sector to the national economy. The only thing that increased was the smuggling. According to market operators, many litres of wine, whether in bulk or bottled in bottles or bottles, are moved without documents and no excise duty is paid and VAT is therefore lost. In order to understand the irrationality and the problems posed by the measure, I will give just one example. A small winemaker who annually produces 100 tonnes of wine, having now created a tax warehouse, to sell even a bottle must pay for all the wine of the year. Only for the excise duty on wine, this amount reaches 20,000 euros. With the increased cost of production it is around 24,000 euros. I will ask you three very brief questions. First, tell me how much money you raised in 2017 and how much money you had budgeted for. Secondly, have you done some study or have any evidence justifying your choice, namely that it was better for fiscal policy to have had its impact on the national economy, on winemakers, on winegrowers, on traders and on consumers? Thirdly, when will you finally abolish excise duty on wine?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-21-S1-commons.u3	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-21-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to begin by pointing out, as we all know, that in recent years a number of measures have been taken with a positive financial figure. So in the context of this effort, and in order for our place to have a healthy and strong economic life, we also have the wine tax. From 1-1-2016, really like you said, 20 euros per 100 litres of end product is the wine tax. I would like to point out here that producers producing up to 1000 litres of own consumption have been exempted from the beginning of the measure as long as there is no sale. So in this case we have the discharge for those who produce and consume either for their family or for their friends. But even in cases of sale, I would point out that for small producers we have some special rules that are favourable. First they are excluded from the tax warehouse. Of course they can choose to have a tax warehouse in order to make a sale abroad with special arrangements. In addition, for small wine growers special arrangements are envisaged, they can do with the five-monthly instalments. In particular, a declaration on excise duty for one fifth of the quantity produced each time by the last working day of February, April, June, August and October of the year concerned is submitted to the competent customs authorities. In this way, small wine producers, even if they have chosen not to join the duty suspension scheme by establishing the tax warehouse, are exempted from the obligation to pay once the product corresponds to and facilitated by the partial payment in five instalments. As regards the figures from the Independent Public Revenue Authority for the attestation of the tax, only from the excise duty and not from the other taxes, for 2016 is EUR 24,472,799, with the corresponding receipt of the certificate EUR 23,686,737. For 2017, the certificate amount shall be EUR 28.051.316, with a corresponding collection of EUR 27.407.214. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] With regard to the complaints concerning the enforcement of the measure, I would like to mention here that, in order to achieve the best possible application of the existing legislation and to avoid circumvention effects, the General Secretariat of Public Revenue - and now the Independent Public Revenue Authority - has given clear instructions to the audit authorities, both in terms of production and in terms of the movement of wine. The planning takes place on the basis of specific criteria and control rates and relates to systematic and targeted controls by both the customs services and the Chemical Service of the Ministry of Finance, in order to ensure, on the one hand, that the part of smuggling and, secondly, by the General Chemistry of the State and by the Chemistry Departments the negative effects on public health. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] As time is pushing, I put forward a document from the ADA for all of this. And I reserve in my dentext to complete our political will.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-21-S1-commons.u5	Mr Dimas, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-21-S1-commons.u6	I'm going to read you a modern version of the fairy tale with the shepherd and the wolf. ‘Inefficient wine tax will be abolished that caused more problems than would be solved’, Alexis Tsipras 9 September 2017. "We will review the excise duty on wine", Alexis Tsipras 18-1-2017. "The measure of levying the tax on wine in the first year of its application paid a significant amount of revenue, but without fully satisfying the financial requirement that we had for it," he also failed, "generally it is the government's intention to abolish excise duty on wine", State Secretary for Economic Affairs Catherine Papanatziou 27-1-2017. ‘Before the harvest, i.e. before September, the excise duty on wine will be abolished’, Deputy Minister of Finance Catherine Papanatziou on 7 May 2017. "We want the abolition and seek equivalent measures to replace the revenue that will be lost." Catherine Papanatziou on 10-10-2017 at the Regional Conference of Thessaly. ‘The competent services of the Ministry of Finance shall monitor the effectiveness of the measures imposed, including the excise duty on wine, and shall suggest the necessary changes, if necessary,’, Deputy Minister of Finance Catherine Papanatziou on 10-10-2016. ‘In 2017, the levy imposed on wine will be abolished, as the return on the measure is small’. Minister for Rural Development and Food Evangelos Apostle, unauthorized, of course, to answer. This was said on 18 May 2017. "We imposed a tax on wine which will soon, i.e. before the end of the year, be abolished after the agreement and the assurance we have from the Ministry of Finance." Minister for Rural Development and Food Evangelos Apostolos on 26 May 2017. ‘It is true that this tax did not produce the expected and had a negative impact on the industry. We say that because this is a leading sector with a strong export activity, we have said and committed the Prime Minister that by the end of the year this arrangement will be withdrawn." Evangelos Apostolou interviewed the newspaper “DOCUMENTO” on June 11, 2017. ‘All year the excise duty on wine will be abolished.’ Evangelos Apostolos 15-7-2017. "We are committed to making it as soon as possible before we arrive at the end of 2017." Evangelos Apostolos, 16-7-2017. "Possibly we have had time to abolish him before the autumn harvest. We have the assurance of the Ministry of Finance that this tax will soon be a past'. Evangelos Apostlelos in the newspaper "Plea" on 31-7-2017. 'The relevant legislation is already being prepared and before the time ends, as the Prime Minister has promised, this tax will no longer exist'. Evangelos Apostolos from my homeland, Great Days of Nemea, August 26, 2017. I was there. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. "An amendment to the House will shortly be tabled to abolish the Special Consumption Tax on wine", Evangelos Apostolos on September 15, 2017. ‘We are working on this arrangement, based on the agreement we have signed, to find an equivalent to replace tax revenue from wine’, Evangelos Apostolos on 19 September 2017 Madam Secretary, have you lied or are you so untrustworthy, incompetent, and you can't keep what you're saying? My question is very simple. Have you lied consciously or are you incapable of doing what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-21-S1-commons.u7	Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-21-S1-commons.u8	First of all, I would like to say that it is true, since it is within the will of the government and of our policy, and if the budgetary conditions allow it, that the levy on wine is abolished. Indeed, the Prime Minister has asked for it and the financial staff are working on those measures which will replace this revenue so that we can abolish the Special Consumption Tax on wine. The evaluation is already being assessed in the next few years. We have the piece on the technical benches and we have agreed that by summer we will be able to leave the board. This means that from there on in the context of surveillance, which we will be able, as a government, to take our own decisions on specific issues, and we will also be able to find the countermeasures to have the same financial effect, in which we certainly cannot say that we will be in something different from what we have agreed up to now, so that the tax on wine can be abolished and that we can have a more orderly movement of the product. However, as I said before and in your question, they are not the small producers affected by excise duty on wine. In general, there is a question with the industry in the country, with the wine producers, with the cooperatives and we see it. We are dealing with this kind of problem, but from what you have seen, the amount that we have received and which has been confirmed is not so great, so it is not his ability to say that he is creating such a big problem. Probably more are the small producers than the big producers. Nevertheless, this money - in the narrowness we have at this time - we think it is important to be able to catch our goals and get out of the memoranda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-21-S1-commons.u9	We move to the fourth question under number 1629/11-5-2018 in the first cycle of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens of the Union of Centres Mr. Marios Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Removal of tax mechanisms for retail trade’. Please, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-21-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, thank you for being here for the second time to answer my question. I would like to start with a history, briefly, to understand, and those who are listening to us what tax mechanisms mean and why they have come here. Before the tax mechanisms came into our lives, there was this manual process, where all businessmen went and pierced their blocks naturally in the tax office. And so 15 years ago, the state decided to use the tax mechanisms to clearly avoid this manual way, to go to every businessman and to get into line to pierce his blocks and, at the same time, to be able to connect to a computer in the system and to check the validity and certification of the documents. So she now came out with the new system, which has been introduced for this reason and is called Advanced Safe Electronic Digital Conservation. And that's all business has. But what's the oxymobile now and the strange thing? The strange thing is - and I have also brought a photo that I will testify to - how the tax mechanism is. There is a boulder in which candles come in, there is a boulder - as the nuns once did in the letters to testify that it will not open, as in PPC's watches, so that there are no intercepts, but we see what is more generally in our everyday lives - and the government feels even now that this method is not intercepted and that there are no violations. So far, what has happened is a hole in the water. All tax evasion and no control exist. In fact, everyone can forge very easily these codes, which are produced by this machine either through a cash machine or through second cash machines or by second machines etc. So the State cannot guarantee the validity and certification. Apart from the outdated situation, as we have said, with the butterfly, there is also a cost borne by the operator concerned. The machine market exceeds EUR 300, but there is also maintenance costs through assistance for some companies. In addition, these mechanisms, precisely because they are outdated technology, do not work easily with the new online systems we have, that professionals use every day and that could solve this whole problem. In addition, they are an obstacle to the technological development and development of an enterprise. Beyond the negative print, there's a piece of paper. It's not an ecological, ecological friendly as we say in the good Greek. So there's paper-printing going out of this whole digital process. The sole reason for these machines is the economic benefit of the specific certified companies which produce and support this machine. Fortunately, wholesale has been abolished. In fact, with the Cycle POL 1002/2014, only a small number of professionals have been abolished for certain professions. However, there are businesses that continue to be tortured and tortured with it. Where I want to conclude is that if you abolish these machines tomorrow, there will be no impact on the State's revenue. It is, in fact, a development movement which will very easily give a breath to businesses, which are suffering, but also to other software companies. What I would like to ask, Minister, is whether it is in the government's intentions to adopt a regulation that will abolish these mechanisms for the whole market. If not, I would like you to tell me what the real reason why you are not going to do this, since, on the one hand, the financial and management burden on the private sector is high and, on the other, the public authorities and the competent authorities are nowhere to benefit from the use of these machines.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-21-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-21-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. As you know, for any sale of goods or services to private consumers it is compulsory to issue retail items, either proof of retail sale or proof of service. There are two ways of issuing proof: One is tax cash machine and the other is when making use of the computer, there is labelling from the tax mechanism. The tax mechanism is a computational machine. It creates a special algorithm stored in its internal memory and its data are sent to the General Secretariat of Information Systems at the closure of the business day. The specific files shall also be stored on the computer. As of 1 January 2014, the endorsement of the tax data was abolished. The use of the tax mechanism ensures the authenticity and integrity of the data issued. They are also allowed to be safeguarded in electronic form and the obligation to keep copies in paper is abolished. We must also stress here that the procedures for any possible cross-checking are facilitated at the level of the audit mechanism. We also note that using the tax mechanism creates a secure system of backup for businesses, as a possible loss that may exist in electronic data will not be equivalent to a loss of tax data. To sum up, we are already working on the implementation of the measure of electronic data transmission, accounting records and data issued, regardless of their method of publication, i.e. either cash machines or computer, on a database of the Independent Public Revenue Authority. I reserve to analyse our plan a little bit in dentistry, since I hear you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-21-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Vice President, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-21-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I have actually established to you - and I have brought you a simple example - that there is no guarantee of infractionality, with the simple example I have brought you for the watches of PPC, which also exists there at the end of the day, and we have numerous intercepts. I recognise - and all businessmen recognize that, but also all of us here in the House - that we need a cross-check of the authenticity of the documentaries. But that could be done very simply electronically. Through digital networking, through computers and the software systems each business has could automatically connect to 'TAXIS' or to a parallel web software - and I hope that it is what you want to tell us after your second language - therefore, in substance, we can conclude that these tax mechanisms and I hope these small machines will be abolished. And so it will simply be possible through "TAXIS" to produce this algorithm you say and if a terminal is disconnected electronically from any system that can exist in the future, it will automatically not be possible to issue an invoice, so the company will automatically not be able to operate, so there will also be an online monitoring of the company's obligations so that we know and can budget and as the Ministry of Finance what the real revenues will be at the time, in real time, about what is going on. Indeed, if you want to cross it already for validity, there are also the qr code and barcode systems, which are now available with the smartphones on the market and as everyone has a smartphone, can at any time verify through a simple typing the validity of a document. On the contrary, with the system currently in place through this machine, this certification is impossible. As you know, Minister, the technological development of the Greek public is currently at the lowest levels in Europe. At the same time, the investment interest of entrepreneurs has declined so much that in any case companies are required to become more flexible and to adapt to the new data on the market. To achieve this, however, it is also necessary to give businessmen, potential for growth through the Internet and through new opportunities and innovative ideas, so that we can resolve their hands from bureaucracy and enable them, in essence, to deal with and produce economics in the country, not to have this tax policy, tax extermination and economic impoverishment that companies have. We hope with this question that our proposal will be heard and that you plan something in the future, because at the end of the day the question is: 'Do we want to be an advanced country, with a public that works for business and the Greek citizens, or do we want to stay in the antiquated systems of vocabulary used in the Middle Ages and not want to move forward as a country'? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-21-S1-commons.u15	You have the floor again, Minister, for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-21-S1-commons.u16	I believe that I have been clear in my first speech on the advantages of using the tax mechanism. Nevertheless, I understand the nature of your question and first of all we recognize the benefits of electronic invoicing. I must thank you for the opportunity you give me to express the government's plans for electronic invoicing. First of all, from 1-1-2020, we put in place electronic invoicing, electronic book keeping, which is an objective of the Ministry of Finance. We have already set up a working group involving representatives of economic and sectoral operators, which will identify the actions and actions required and the infrastructure needed for the implementation of electronic invoicing to a significant extent. For business, we'll start from 1-1-2019. This issue, in fact, has been discussed recently with all the stakeholders and we have all agreed that all the necessary initiatives must be taken to bring about the modernisation of electronic invoicing. I note here that it is also in conjunction with electronic bookkeeping. In this way, as you said, in real time will have the Ministry, our electronic information systems, without having to do anything different or go on the spot to do the checks. The need to implement electronic invoicing and electronic keeping of books and data is a key intervention in tackling tax evasion. The next steps in this area are the electronic invoicing and interconnection of cash machines with the tax authorities, and that is what we are preparing to implement, as I said before, pilots in 2019 and 2020 will try to implement it in a broader form. Here I would like to say that the government is already preparing more generally the use of electronic invoicing, digital interconnection in G to G, B to G and in this direction, as long as these conditions are available, we also expect to have the same technical features to have the same connection from there and beyond between entrepreneurs and consumers. With this logic, we will also make it easier for businesses in their everyday lives, as you have said, to fulfil their obligations and to save resources and by automating the procedures followed and reducing bureaucratic costs. We believe that it is a key development tool for businesses and, at the same time, it can make a significant contribution to combating tax evasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-21-S1-commons.u17	So you say that you will in future abolish this system.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-21-S1-commons.u18	As far as the system of taxation is concerned, it is a technical thing that we cannot at present commit to abolishing it or whether the same tax mechanism can, if it is possible, not to burden them with anything else, give the general government the information. We still haven't seen the technical features. We are already in contact with the relevant bodies, professionals, industrialists. We're talking about finding the part of the technical features to make the connection. The sure thing is that today the connection is made with the 'Z', so that we can say it a little more simply, which comes out of the tax mechanism at the end of the day. With the "Z" of the tax mechanism, there are currently all the data in our records. Now with the new given given, we'll be able to have it in real time, just like you said. If it is with the existing tax mechanisms or with something else, we will see that along the way. However, our proposal is that there should be electronic invoicing and interconnection, and also, as I say, electronic bookkeeping, so that we can have less burdens on their own businesspeople. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-21-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-21-S1-commons.u20	With the consent of the House at 18.45 minutes the meeting for the next Wednesday 23 May 2018 at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on a pre-dated order at the level of the parties' Heads of State, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
