ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval 23-3-2018, the minutes of its meeting of Thursday 22 March 2018 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Regions on transport issues and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House on Monday 26 March 2018: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Nikolaos Xydakis to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "Tax rebate for foreign film production in Greece". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 1369/20-3-2018, a topical question by MP II of the New Democracy, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The Ministry of Finance observes the contract with the investment bank of Rothschild" by the Ministry of Finance. 3. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos at number 1338/19-3-2018 by the Member of the Ilias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The choice of Mr Tsakalotou's political existence as a judge of his budget." 4. The Question No 1363/20-3-2018 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the problems of thousands of contractors (supplementaries and wages) of teachers. 5. Question No 1371/20-3-2018 by Mr Ioannis Saridis, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'What is the exact balance of the bank account of Law 128/1975?' B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1370/20-3-2018 by the New Democracy MP, Nikis Kerameos, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Turkey and lawlessness in higher institutions". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "What is the fate of the cash reserves of “OLTH A. E.” of EUR 65,108.327,16 after the transfer of the majority of public shares to private individuals?". 3. The 1314/13-2018 topical question by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Suspension of operation of the Transport Supply Training Centre as a Neoslett Training Centre". 4. The question by No. 1303/13-3-2018 by MP Larissa of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Talk for thousands of patients the placing of medicines from the pharmacy of the EEA". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Trikala of the Radical Left Coalition, Athanasios Papadopoulos to the Minister of National Defence, on “Rename of the Camp “Kavrakos” in “State of Permanent Staff””. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 3508/14-2-2018 of the Deputy Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "The founding of the Department of Transition and Courts of Drama and his staff with the necessary staff. Staff with the necessary staff of the Drama Booking Store.’ 3. The question asked by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazidis to the Minister of Health, dated 3195/5-2-2018, on "Following the General Hospital of Drama with anesthetics and health centres of the prefecture with medical staff". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Let me first announce what timely questions will not be discussed. The second, number 1344/19-3-2018, timely question of the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Is the revelation of the President of PPC that the Government is considering selling LARCO, upon suggestion of the institutions?” It will not be discussed because of an impediment from the Minister for the Environment, Mr Stathakis, because of a government mission. The third, with number 1339/19-3-2018, top-circuit question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Turks are engaged in smuggling of tobacco within Greek territorial waters" will not be discussed due to the obstruction of Mr. Kourublis, who will be abroad. Likewise, the fourth question under number 1327/16-2018, the first-round question from the H' Vice-President of the Parliament and MEP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, concerning the "installation" of thousands of tourist ships prepared by the Turks in the Aegean Sea in the summer" will not be discussed due to the obstruction of Mr. Kourublis, who will be abroad. The question and application under number 1139/92/13-11-2017 of the Athens Chamber of Deputies of the Republic of Athens, PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: “An unjustified delay in the drafting and publication of the quarterly reports of the Appeals Authority against the decisions of the Asylum Office,” will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Vitsas, who is already in Chios. The second question, under number 1335/19-3-2018, of the second question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The need to regulate housing loans in a Swiss franc" will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Alexandros Haritsis. Similarly, the third, with number 1261/6-3-2018, a topical question from the Member of Parliament, Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios State, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The sustainability of the factory of the Greek industry of Zacharas, Orestiadas", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Alexandros Haritsis. There is the letter from the Secretary of the Ministerial Council. We will now proceed to the debate on the first under number 1368/20-3-2018 of the first cycle of the Member of the Republic of Attica, Georgios Vlachos, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Suspension of special compensation protocols until the ratification of forest maps'. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Socrates Famelos. Here you go, Mr Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known that the Greek public issue special compensation protocols for those who have built arbitrary buildings in public or private forests or in areas that have been declared reservoirs, but whose forest character has not been determined in the process of ratifying forest maps. Of course, in addition to the construction fine, every year we have the conservation fine, which is renewed as long as this loose end is still there. Therefore, the owners whose buildings are in these areas must each year apply for suspension of execution and for cancellation to the administrative court. This is a cost of EUR 3 000, EUR 4,000 every year, because there is a paradox, which has recently increased and also needed money to cover the whole issue legally. In the event of a negative result from the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, there must be an appeal to the Council of State, because, if not, this fine can be finalised and, of course, it must be confirmed. If it does not resort to the Council of State, you understand that the cost of this request for appeal and cancellation is much higher, even forbidding, I would say, Minister, for a very large proportion of our fellow citizens, because I imagine that you too have a clear picture of what our fellow citizens have built under these circumstances. When it comes to finalising, of course, these fines must be confirmed. The services that impose fines, recognizing the injustice, recognizing the exaggeration, acknowledging all this arbitraryness, do not send them for a certificate, because, if they went for a certificate, you understand that they would be our fellow citizens in despair. But when a fellow citizen gets a paper and is a fine of EUR 100,000, 200,000 - many times and more - it is not simple and nobody can see it lightly and say 'you are not bored, I am not paying'. Obviously, he doesn't pay for it, but only he comes with this fine with these unthinkable sums, it scares him. Do we have the right to continue in these difficult times to keep these citizens hostage and to scare them and upset their lives for something that, anyway, we agree should be resolved? I am stopping here, Mr President, and I shall continue to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u4	Since I welcome you, I would like to thank Mr Vlavo for the interesting debate that has given us the opportunity, Mr President, to do so. I think this debate will help us to clarify many issues, particularly about Attica, since the forestry maps process is currently in place. We have, of course, not only in Attica, but in many parts of our country outside the construction plan and in some parts and arbitrary construction, as you have described. Of course, you understand that we are also having to resolve questions of decades that have been created by deficits and the political system, and we must all now find a solution and our own government must implement it. You will allow me, however, in the first part of my answer - as I understand it, we will talk in the second part, because you too have kept it - to clarify a few issues in the question, because the world is also interested in us. You spoke of protocols in buildings in forests, private or public or resurrected areas. I would like to make it clear here that these cases are not equal. It is not the forest itself with the woodland and especially the reforestation. The resurrected areas have no definite characterisation. They're preached. For example, it is burnt, and there I think there are good orders for demolition, when someone builds on the burns, to an extent that was woody. However, it must not be confused with the citizen. There are loose ends, but not in the resurrected and preachers. Are there any uncertainties of a crisis where there is a designation of forest area - that is the second question - that is, where the service has been acted, based on Law 998? As far as I know you are a geotechnic, you know very well that this law, Law 9988, together with the presidential decrees on the characterisation of the forest, have a full institutional framework for how, when the service goes, the forest is characterised. In other words, there are sufficient criteria, there are no criteria in our country. In cases, therefore, where you refer to, in my view, there is no loose end, when there is a designation, for example, where there is a declaration of resurrected persons or an act of designation. Let us agree, in other words, that where there is a legal act of the administration, this must be something for us to plan for the rest. I therefore agree that there are some areas that have no act of the administration and we have loose ends and the application of forest maps will resolve these issues. You are referring, of course, to fines notified in arbitrary terms when the forest character has not finished and you have made a special reference and oral. There is also the need for forest maps to be used for hundreds of thousands of land. I would also like to ask a question here: Did the delay in forest maps create arbitraryness in the off-project construction or arbitrary in the off-project construction force the political system not to ratify the forest maps? I think this is a vicious circle, because you know very well that the responsibilities exist on both sides. But the responsibility lies with the political system, which has constitutionally guaranteed the forest character, but has never applied the forest maps. The political system has forty years allowed this maliciousness and now there is a question of life's property. You'll probably put it. I would therefore like to say to all those people who arbitrarily have that those responsible for their suffering are those who allowed them to build arbitrary constructions. And that's clear. Now we will try to solve it, but it is not responsible now for the arbitrary state that once happened. I would also like to say here, however, that I would not at all accept a debate that was held in Parliament at some point with an amendment that other colleagues - not you - tried to introduce to suspend forest fines anywhere in Greece because of forest maps. This would open the door to continue the arbitrariness and close the eye that we will once fix all of this. But now, since we are talking about forest maps, I would like to tell you that our decision is given to us: to solve these problems with forest maps throughout the country, to ensure farmers' subsidies and property and the primary sector, which is also constitutionally guaranteed, to have the condition of settlements - which we will then discuss - and to make a law, if you like, of settlements. However, it is important that while only 0.8% of the forest maps were validated for forty years in 2017, 32% were validated. So in one third of the country there will be no such problems as you have presented. This has been solved and this year we have 17% in post. In addition to safeguarding the property, I would like to go now to the part you ask and you will probably continue for the densities. Excluded from the settlements...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u5	But don't go, Minister, in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u6	That is what I shall say for a second, Mr President. Excluded from the settlements? My answer is that no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.. The forest maps will be applied everywhere, and that is the message that everyone wants to hear in our society. They will be implemented by a special bill, which we now draft. Will they join the town plan? That is something you are asking, that is, whether they were integrated into the densities until they joined the city plan or not. I will make this clear in an introductory form and we will resolve it after the densities issue. No, the construction process has definite rules that will not be violated. There should be no urban areas where the concentrations of the arbitrary are not subject to the rule of urban planning. You know very well that there are constitutional obligations to protect the forest. None of us will break them in this Chamber. So we need to make it clear that the settlements from the forest maps have not been excluded and the settlements are not automatic. However, on the question of housing density, I will continue on the second part of the answer, since you will refer to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Friday 12 January 2018 and Wednesday 17 January 2018 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u8	The minutes of the sittings of Friday 12 January 2018 and Wednesday 17 January 2018 were therefore validated. Here you go, Mr Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much. Minister, you know that the resurrected areas - particularly after fires - were lightly proclaiming the heart resurrected, without one looking at the limits and what existed beforehand. Obviously, I do not raise the issue of changing the use of forest land which has been burnt and which are resurrected. That's far from us. So what are we talking about? I will tell you what we are talking about and I will tell you what the proposal is. We are talking about suspending fines or 'freezing' for those who have been imposed until the final designation of the region in question, which means that it is open, that is, there is no designation - you have said so earlier - and that it is not included in a town plan. I didn't say he was saving, and what was excluded is going to go to the town plan. But until it perfects, they may not constantly reach year after year fines to the owners, leading them to a dead end, to despair. There is a prerequisite for these areas for which I am at least speaking, that they have been excluded from forest maps, that is to say they have been characterized, coloured with violet colour. So since the service comes in the first phase and exempts them from the forest maps and integrates them into the so-called 'economy' - which means, as we have already agreed, that this issue will be seen in a later phase how it will be done, and we agree on that - I say, self-evidently, that these people will not be constantly fined. In other words, we are 'free' what has been imposed, no new ones are issued, the process is stopped there until the final characterisation and the state sees what it will do with these regions. Obviously, I understand that in the future it may not be the same treatment in all regions. But at this stage we have to do it. You remember that I tabled this amendment about six months ago. Then both Minister Stathakis and you told me that he was in the right direction and we will see it. Unfortunately, however, it has been six months and we are discussing the same again. In other words, fines continue to come to our fellow citizens. So I would say - as a ministry - that you bring an amendment to the first bill and ask for the suspension, the freezing of these fines. It doesn't change the scenery. You're not taking a position. You're not acquitting anyone. We are simply not burdening the lives of our fellow citizens by sending fines which, as I have said, are not collected anyway. It is simply necessary for everyone to go to make an appeal and every year to leave him three to four thousand to make an appeal. Why would we do that? And you know, if that does two, three years, it's actually paid the house and the building and the plot, because that's not of great value, as you understand. There is no room, in other words, for such reactions that are burdening our fellow citizens. I would therefore say, Mr President, that in my view you should bring them into the next period in summary procedures - I think we all agree - a regulation that will suspend the fines imposed and freeze them there until the designation of these areas is finalised. Minister, I would like to clarify - so that there is no misunderstanding - that I am always talking only about areas which have been excluded from forest maps and are vividly coloured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u10	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. I made some clarifications, which were in agreement with us in the first part, because you have indeed limited the content of the old amendment, which you have already signed. I'm not talking about that. I'm saying we're not talking about such things together. As far as refreshments that were not of an old forest character are concerned, I would inform you that we legislated in 2017 and are automatically obliged to exclude all the forests. In Elijah, for example, they had not, ten years later, except for the vines from the resurrected fire, the legal vineyards. I'm talking about an example. These are solved. So we've closed this void. I would also like to say that we are not talking about suspending new fines, because we will create a new arbitrage. We haven't opened such a conversation. We're talking about debts. As is also the case, we are not talking about fines that are in the hands of management. We have left a void of debate from the first question about arbitrary, uncharacterised, and not where the administration has acted. There will be no other designation of forest. But to say about the densities, because you are indeed asking about the densities. We've had this conversation before. So without transferring the matter or raising the issue of applying a forest map to densities, we have created the prediction of settlements. The residential density is therefore excluded from the scope of Law4389. But we have announced, and this is in support of your question, that there is already a legislative committee that will end in the first half of 2018. We have a 15-member lawmaker headed by the Legal Council of the State that will bring about a law on settlements. Because there is still a discussion in the Council of State on the condition of the settlements it disputes and the forest maps law. Because we want it to be safe, we'll bring the House a law on settlements. Now, let's go a little bit to the application, in other words, how what you're talking about applies. We have given the municipalities the opportunity with a municipal council decision to propose to us areas of residential density. Last year we discussed many times how to force the municipalities to apply this article. The last one hundred and twenty municipalities of last year did so on the last day. Now, two weeks ago, we announced a hundred and seventy-three municipalities that are pending to identify the densities, so that our debate, which you propose, could take a substantial step forward. We have given an extension - and this is important - to identify the areas, the properties and the measures we will give to support, if you wish, and your proposal and assess it. The municipalities must bear the housing densities. By 15 May all the municipalities, both in the eastern Attica and in the western Attica and throughout Greece, must bear the densities to describe, Mr Vlato, exactly what we have already quantified. Last year some municipalities submitted residential densities. So let me tell you that from the settlements they submitted, 18.6% of the municipality's proposals were under twenty-five acres. So they are not part of the provisions of the law. 12.2% overlap, that is, one is on the other. Not to tell you that there are about 1% polygons with recipes outside Greece, i.e. errors, apart from the fact that there is a very large percentage, the so-called “sheep” that are not land, but a line linking houses and farms. As you can see, if we were now going to make a settlement arrangement on the basis of your proposal, would we put in the ones that are under the twenty-five acres and those that are overlapping polygons? So we have to find together, as a Parliament, in the law on housing density the definition of what the law is, because they have not been ratified by the administration. They are the proposals of the municipal councils. If, in other words, we were to discuss your amendment, your proposal, then automatically by 15 May, the municipal councils may even have introduced into settlements areas that are not. It should therefore be inequitable to the citizens who would be entitled to such a regulation. I say, therefore, that all municipalities should be pressed by 15 May to finish the settlements throughout Greece. To build together the bill of settlements, which first of all will evaluate what are indeed residential densities. And therefore, the debate on the arrangements for houses in the legal densely populated areas will take place in the bill that will take place in the first half of the year. Because I understand your proposal only where there is an act of administration. We've agreed. And it is an outstanding thing that the citizen must have a clear framework. But shouldn't that be even for everyone? So that's why we're pushing too hard. And we want you allies on this. By 15 May all municipalities will end, build a bill assessing the correct densities, rather than having overlap or such mistakes, and for the residential densities to make the arrangements that respects the forest balance and the constitutional obligation, and solve problems that are forty years in the countryside. We are also having this debate together, Mr Vlacho. I appreciate the positive aspect of your request, but we cannot have unequal arrangements or unconstitutional arrangements. In this direction, however, we will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u12	We move on to the following two topical questions, which will be answered by the Minister for Economy and Development and Vice-President of the Government, Mr Ioannis Drasakis. So we will now be discussing the first with number 1367/20-3-2018 a top-level question from the New Democracy MP Mr. Athanasios Bourras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on "Removing a branch of a National Bank from Zefyri". The long-suffering Zephyry! Here, Mr. Bourra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u14	Mr Bourrai, I have described it as'multiple', you normally have it in your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u15	Yes, it is. I'll explain that. I sincerely wish to thank the Vice-President of the Government, who, if and very few days ago, took over the duties of the Minister of Economy and Development, has also come to answer my request to address a major problem...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u16	The old man is different, Mr. Bourra! You should know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u17	...in order to calm down the region, a multi-faceted area, which is indeed what I described as, Mr President, as you can see, which for many decades has been showing a social offer to the whole of Attica and not just. Why this municipality, Mr. Vice President, the Municipality of Fylis, which has three municipal units, namely Fly, the Ano Liosias and Zephyri, three former municipalities, sincerely offers to the national economy, the Greek society, by accepting for many decades all this laptop of Attica and not just. Indeed, in the area of Zefyrio, in the Municipal Unit of Zefyri, our citizens live with very low incomes, with a small level of knowledge, with no access to electronic media and ATM and were all upset in Zefyri because it was released that the national bank, the only bank branch of all banks, will be stopped. There's no other bank there. In fact, one or two years ago, the Post Bank was abolished. So that creates a major problem. You know that the elderly do not even have any inside means, Mr Vice-President, they do not have a way of moving, in a town near the Municipality of Ano Liosia, but it is a problem for them. It is therefore imperative that this branch should continue to operate. This need has been expressed, as I write in my question, and in a document by the Deputy Director-General of the National Bank, which emerged at the request of the Vice-President Mavroidakos. I make the request for the vice mayor and the bank's answer for the Minutes. To read only the answer of the National Bank, then, a year ago, which says: "Our bank respecting banking needs in the area will continue to operate in Zefri, in the existing property, with a trading office, while the 24-hour operation of the ATM will be maintained. Our staff will ensure..." etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u18	And with this, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u19	Therefore, the same bank in October 2016, i.e. not even a year and a half ago, sees the uncertain need to operate this branch.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u20	You're clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u21	After that, Mr Vice-President, I sincerely would like to ask you to take the action - it is not yours absolutely a matter, but it is in the jurisdiction of control and proper functioning geographically of the banking system - to ensure that the branch remains in this very tortured area.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Bourra, you're clear. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Bourrain, ladies and gentlemen, I have been in this position for many years, namely, the Member who asks and I know that he does so because he wants to represent his region, he wants to raise a social problem and I therefore attach great importance to parliamentary control. One of the first things we did at the Ministry was to ask for a statistics of the questions that are being asked, and it is my intention to answer as far as possible to all questions. I must note only that a party, in trying to degenerate Parliament, asks massive questions to all the ministries, it seems, with the result that 68% of the questions it asks our Ministry are the responsibility of other ministries. But I must also note that all the other parties are asking their questions, they are monitoring them and, therefore, as far as possible, I will be here to discuss them. On this point, which is raised by your own question, I would like to agree with you on the social and wider cultural dimension it has, although it seems to be a very individual issue, because we are talking about an Attica region which has major problems. I remember you and Thanasis Leventis, as well as other MPs, constantly highlight the particular problems of Western Attica. So at this juncture, which is an attempt to upgrade the region - and recently it was the Prime Minister there - it really wouldn't be reasonable to mark it with a closure of a branch. I have to say that I have contacted the bank, with its administration, set out the reasons you, too, mentioned in your question and I think we have found a response. He's going to look positively for the branch to stay there. It may be necessary to cooperate with local authorities too, so that workers in the branch feel safe and are sure that they also serve a wider social situation. But I would like to say, having responded to this point, that this problem is part of a wider, wider problem, which is underestimated in our country and which concerns the problem of banking exclusion. It is an international problem, which existed before the crisis, which means that some of our fellow citizens do not have access to a bank or that access is very precise. And the contradiction we have here is that while law is passed that makes the banking service compulsory - that is, your pension will be taken from a bank, your salary will be taken from a bank, your account needs to be opened in a bank - at the same time this presence is not always guaranteed. In my dentext I will say a few actions that we have taken with the banks, but I will also put some thoughts and a possible regulation, which we need to see in the course of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u24	That's a positive response! Here, Mr. Bourra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u25	From what I understand, Mr Vice-President and Minister of Economy and Development, you have responded immediately, but you have intervened more directly, as you mentioned, you have contacted the administration of the National Bank. At least from what the President and I and all of us understood - it was just your words - that the branch will remain in the region and that is very positive. Already people, who may hear from us from the direct circuit of the House, do feel safe and serve. In what you have raised with regard to the proper functioning of the branch, on the issue of security, I will also help by intervening with the municipal authority, which will ensure that employees at the bank feel safe during the provision of their services. In fact, the municipality is very willing to do this. I will read to you - and I will present to you in the Minutes - the unanimous decision of the municipal council, which reads as follows: "The Municipality of Florida, in excess of its capacity, undertakes to cover the rent of the Zephyri branch of the National Bank". This is another energy of the municipality, and it does not have economic potential. You know it's a very poor municipality. He did the same the other day, which offered the state his own building for the housing of the West Attica Security Subcommittee with the offer of eight vehicles. It shows its willingness to work with the National Bank and the employees, who are sure to feel safe. Thank you again. I believe that today's answer gives you hope to these people who, in fact, live in a very difficult area, and so they should not be made even more difficult. I am presenting for the minutes the excerpts of the municipality's practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u26	The city's attempt, Mr. Bourra, but don't start crying and taking out a record, so people can pay the bank rent! I don't want to intervene for the banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u27	I said that to show that the city is willing to even do the rental cover.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u28	I get it. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u29	I, too, believe that the way the municipality can help is another. It's not too much to pay the rent. To be clear and accurate, however, you know that our banks are supervised by the European Supervisory Mechanism, the SSM. So the government does not order the bank to close or not. The Government points out to the bank that in its own interests it is important not to lose or have a social person, that it is not indifferent to social needs, etc. The answer to the question was: 'We will look at it positively'. I'm interpreting it, too, that the branch is staying. With regard to banking exclusion, it is an international problem, a major problem. There was before the crisis and it is growing after the crisis, because banks are obliged, they have signed restructuring plans, which provide for further shrinkage, and I say further shrinkage, because many branches have already been closed down. The problem will therefore be intensified. Of course, one will say that we are living in a digital era. I, too, believe that in a few years' time, especially young people, will be able to do almost all the banking work. So an ATM is enough to get or deposit their money. Technology will also enable us to have ATMs which do complex work, to be small citizens' services centres. I am afraid, however, that even in the territory of this digital age, inequality, if we do not pay attention, can be reproduced and enlarged. That is why I consider this to be a serious matter, and I would like to draw your attention to it. After all, demands such as that of Zephyrios have come to us from Evgenios Ikaria, from Saints Theodores and much more. So what we need to see is an immediate solution. I say this because you too must press. So banks should make a deal with each other that they won't be a part of, a town or a town without a branch, something like pharmacy. A bank may leave, but a branch of a bank may be left. They must agree to this, the Banking Union. The second - and more strategically - is to make a wider regulation covering the issue, namely, ensuring that all citizens have access to these basic services indiscriminately and at a cost which does not create any problems. I must point out that this is on the European Union's Charter of Rights, it is included in the UN's sustainable development objectives, so that is not something that we only say. We also need to make use of some of the arrangements that we have voted on to make an observation centre, as foreseen, of bank debts and perhaps also a mechanism that identifies, maps out and sets out measures to address them. I am therefore taking this opportunity to say that ensuring citizens' access to banking services and protecting citizens against abuse, is and will be one of the key priorities of the Ministry of Economy and Development, because development is a social, most importantly, process and society must also understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u30	That's a positive answer. Next is the second with number 1335/19-3-2018, topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The need to regulate housing loans in Swiss francs is urgent again. It's a very timely question. Mr. Carras has brought the matter on several occasions. I, too, have an anguish to see what you're dealing with, Mr. Karras, will be dealing with by Mr. Drasakis. I say this because, in my view, Mr Drasakis is primarily a political person and then a technocrat. His predecessor - my judgment - was just coming back. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, I would like to thank you for giving me the floor and thanking the Vice-President for his presence today, because I believe that the subject of the current question is not only interesting, it is indeed timely. Why am I saying that? About a decade ago, the banks gave an attractive product, housing, mainly, loans to a Swiss franc, which at that time in relation to its exchange rate with the euro, created conditions for facilitating the debtors. Unfortunately, however, on the way, the exchange rate has been overthrown and the Swiss franc has already been valued by about 60% compared to the exchange rate for the euro. What did that have to do with it? On the one hand, as an attractive product, it attracted some seventy thousand families to receive a housing loan and pledged a corresponding number of guarantors. For I have to remind you that when the banks at the time gave the loans unpaidly, they were covered not only by the property security they were purchased but also by a personal guarantee from either a member of the borrower's family or a third party serving them. Today, then, after the valuation, we have reached a burden of 60% of these loans in relation to the initial disbursed amount. At the same time, and a large proportion of the people who have received the loan, are responding to these obligations as much as possible, but they are responding with great difficulty. The collective bodies have made an effort to judge the legal part, whether it was consumer, investment product or not. Unfortunately, the courts have, of course, taken the view that in relation to the conditions agreed with the loan contracts, they were lawful. So it cannot be called into question, at least at the stage we are in today. Here, Mr President, I put the question to you, and I will say what are the questions, because it is time for politics, as you have already pointed out, to take decisions beyond court decisions. I therefore address the Vice-President and ask if the government intends to take legislative measures to alleviate these loans and, furthermore, whether the currency risk that occurred in relation to 2006-2008 is moral, legal, to blame people who did not have the responsibility or should be relieved of the risk of exchange. That is the outline of the question. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u32	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u33	Here we do have a problem, which was created in a previous phase with many distortions. It's the phase that caused the bankruptcy of the country, my colleague. It was this phase where the model of the overdue citizen was created that consumption could be done with loan, credit to study, loan to take a holiday, loan to make it all, and banks instead of warning, misleading or in any case avoiding risks, so that I could be more precise. It's a big problem. The damage has been done. Now the tasks are firstly, how to shield the future, not to repeat the same problems, and secondly, how to mitigate the problem and the consequences, as you have said. What did we do and what do we do? Firstly, with regard to the armourage of the future, with the incorporation of the relevant directive into Law 4438, we predict, if a new product appears again tomorrow and says, borrow with pounds, because the pound will be underestimated, etc., in this case if the rate is changed by more than 20%, that the borrower can request the conversion of his loan. It's something missing from the past. Of course more is next. Or make a guarantee. Take the loan into pound, but keep in mind that there may be risks, and against these risks, that there may be a hedging. Both of these tools if they were in the past, we would have a much smaller problem. Of course, with what I said, the problem is not solved, because it needs vigilance, it needs education, it needs the passion to be learned. And when a house loan is involved with speculative games, what do you say next? On the second topic which is the victims, let me say this, of these practices, I also set up a committee in October to study and indicate solutions to me. The conclusion is that legislation is not prohibited. We can get out of here. The question is whether at this stage with stress tests open and with other problems, which you too understand, it is appropriate to proceed with this today. A country which has attempted this has been warned that if there is a need for capitalisation, it will lead to a bail in, that is to say, a threat to deposits. Then we keep the matter open. We do not exclude what will happen in the future. We have given weight, to see what is going to happen with the courts and, secondly, we have forced the banks to implement programmes in particular, regardless of what the laws and the courts say. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the Vice-President of the Government and Minister bell is ringing.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. As far as the course of court proceedings is concerned, the last decision is indeed creating a negative climate, but the case is not over. There's the Ice Bay level. We are not going to invest our expectations there, but I say, because a world hears us that the judiciary is a road. The legislative path is a road, but it is not being offered to us at the moment. But the third to which we are directing our efforts is that banks propose solutions, because - I answer your question - there should be a sharing of the risk, with less responsibility for the borrower, with the banks' main responsibility, etc. As far as I know, a bank has already announced some programmes. The other banks are studying similar projects, which will be in logic, part of the loan to freeze and may be deleted if the remaining part is normally served. The second logic is whether anyone has a social problem, it cannot be changed, its conditions have been unemployed, then it belongs to the category of households belonging to the Katseli Act and who either have to join that law or the bank itself - predicting they will join, predicting that they will be justified - to offer a socially defined solution to the borrower. So, with this data, I suggest that everyone follow the subject. After the stress test later we re-do a record of the issue, that is, where we are, where we are, what the banks did, what programmes worked, what they had and we are here to see it again. I would like to say that the time when the state, because it also has the main responsibility here, is the state that did not create an institutional framework, but the time when some people believed that society can develop because markets are effective and in themselves solve the problems, has passed away. Not in Greece, worldwide. So you are right to ask the question and we must see in what ways the state, representing the public and social interest, will also be able to shield the future, but also to mitigate problems of the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. The views of the Vice-President are interesting, I cannot say. What I would like to mention, however, is this: to reiterate first of all that this is the time of politics and it is not the time for the courts. Because if we wait for the Areo Ice, we're waiting for ten more appeal decisions that will be raised in the Areo Ice and those and you understand that the problem will perpetuate. My second point is this: these people who are talking about programmes which banks are working on or announced, so far the vast majority of them have actually paid back the loan to that amount which they received in euro when disbursing the loan and before changing the parity to the Swiss franc with the change in the Swiss currency in euro. Today what the banks are seeking and claiming is a surplus, an extraordinary profit from the exchange rate, if we want to define it accurately. Furthermore, there is indeed the need - and I do not see that as well as the Vice-President and the government - for legislation which at least does not seem to be hampered by the country's international commitments. At this point, you will allow me to make a proposal, which may open the way. In 2015, when the famous third memorandum, as you know better than I, was discussed, budgeted as well as debt write-offs or bank loan arrangements. In fact, then, the concept of deferred tax obligation has been introduced in the sense that banks will, to the extent that they will write off or make provision for risk-weight loans or for loans to be facilitated, transfer their tax liability to five years. Already with a proposal from the Government a year ago, Mr Vice-President, as you know, the deferred tax obligation has been converted into twenty years. I therefore think that you have the possibility and the loans in a Swiss franc to match them and see in the proposals you mention if they can be included in the regulation of deferred tax obligation, so that 100% of the currency risk is not passed on to borrowers. This is my first proposal. A second proposal I wanted to make to the Government, Mr President, is as follows: the Vice-President referred to the stress tests. They are in progress. Of course, I think it is too much to think that there can be a risk of bail in one of them. In any case, I just keep it in mind for the future. As far as stress test is concerned, there's a flexibility there. I do not claim specialty in banking matters, I simply see them with the political dimension that there can be the Greek side's argument not to include the surpluses resulting from the benefits of the bank's gains in stress tests, to join the deferred tax second and to be able to have legislation. Why do you know what's gonna happen in the end? The burdens, particularly on property and families, Mr President - and I shall end - are already great. I read in today's news that the majority of regions are growing too. The borrower also pays him, even if he has not yet acquired ownership of his property. When the bank holds it, it's got some kind of security. You understand, in other words, that enforcing HICPI has nothing to do with income. It's a tax on possession of property. You understand that, if they're burdened, they'll lead to an explosive mixture and weakness eventually. Where's the weakness? Will it lead the borrowers to the law of Katseli? Katselie's law is to be seen to be strict every day. I will also give a final dimension to this in terms of mortgage borrowers. I referred to my start-up and the guarantors. There are guarantors next door. Regrettably, however, if the first-collectioner resorts to the law of Katseli, the guarantor does not have his own protection from the law of Katseli. Another procedure should be followed, if and if so. So you understand that we are talking about a number of some four hundred thousand people who are in agony at the moment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u36	Mr Vice-President, as we have you here today, I will formally ask you the question. I wanted a first taste, beyond the answer. I'm doing it a little irregular. For these green loan borrowers, which we are actually holding up banks, does the government have a moral, practical reward? I wish that the haircut in red loans, not of course the batters, would happen, but for these unfortunate Greeks who normally pay every month and who have spent three quarters, should there not be a moral reward? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u37	Interesting and your question. I would like to make a general position, more information, because I didn't have a full picture when we took over. I must tell you, Mr President, and Mr Colleague, that in the past few decades a situation has arisen in which the state had no competence over the banks. They were supposed to be supervised by the Bank of Greece. The Bank of Greece, however, exercises supervision on the basis of Basel II regulations, Basel III. Supervision, however, in the sense that banks give all money to consumer loans or investment, in that consumer supervision, in that it is protected, in the sense that we are shielded from the fact that the banks in fact control the economy, was not there. And the reason why the Deputy Prime Minister, I, took over by mandate from the Prime Minister, was that we saw that the ministries had no infrastructure. So, whatever you say to me, I will answer 'yes' as a future. For the time being, however, we must look specifically at what we can do, so that we can solve a problem without creating another bigger one. What you have said is that three hundred, four hundred thousand of our fellow citizens are in this category, which is a shocking element. How many people have been lured into the logic of winning 0.5% or 1% at the interest rate to bear a risk that they obviously did not know. But I have to tell you that for me the matter of the courts has not ended. I, too, have been informed that IMF, the International Monetary Fund, promptly informed that the Swiss franc is imminent. Did that be taken into account by the banks, even then? So it's not that simple. It is complex in managing a problem that has taken place. Second one. Let's go see if we have any more room. First of all, I repeat: My answer is that, in view of the data I described to you, we are now acceding, we are asking the banks to take concrete measures, to implement programmes. We reserve to see the results and come back. It's not something that closes. Deferred tax. It would make it easier if we had something European here, because the deferral tax is ultimately under the approval of DIGICOM, the European institutions. It's not something that we can define on our own. Since you have said so, we can see what is happening in the rest of Europe, whether in any country, in Italy or in any other country, there is some sort of regulation, so that we can make use of it. The second thing I have to say is that, unfortunately, we are the country with most red loans. So we're gonna have to squeeze them down. That is why I, at least, support not waiting for pressure, to find ways to reduce red loans, so as to avoid pressure or anything else that comes from outside. There is now a social criterion. Our banks are strong. They have 17% capital adequacy, when the threshold is 12%. So they have room. But if we assume that the banks have 1 billion - more than that - for cover, as they say, for loan write-offs, etc., we also have a criterion of how this one billion will be allocated. Because we have those who have the Swiss franc, we have those who have euros, but have lost their jobs, are unemployed, their business has been destroyed, and so on, but there is a question of social criteria. In other words, there is the Swiss franc and it cannot be paid, there is the Swiss franc and, possibly, despite the damage, it can be done and there are other categories where protection is needed. That is why any solutions to introduce the dimension of the credit card should therefore be able to do so, so that we can get those resources that we have, whether as a public or as a banking system, to go where there really is a greater need. I would therefore say that, with this data, we will also investigate the proposal you are making and whatever else you are doing, always trying to alleviate the problems that we have inherited so that we can move forward and design the future on a stronger basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u38	Me too, Mr. Drasakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u39	What you said to me, Mr President, is indeed a matter, because half the Greeks do not owe, as far as I know, 25% of those who owe them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u40	And not just. But you go and tell them "to give the rest" and they say "go, but the penalty will pay." Not even the penalty, that is, they don't give.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u41	We'll see. In general, there must be a dialogue and an effort so that we know what can be done and what cannot be done about all these problems. There is, on some issues, an ambiguity in terms of the ability and the limits of manoeuvre. And we can at least clarify that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the well-established celebrity event will follow ahead of 25 March 1821, and I would ask all workers, parliamentary authors and colleagues in this House today, due to the criticality of our national issues, to flood the plenary session. It is symbolic that all of us are present at today's celebration. And next year! Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-23-S1-commons.u43	With the agreement of the House at 11.05 p.m. the sitting of the next Monday, 26 March, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
