ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 1-2-2018, the minutes of the CV's meetings of Thursday, 1 February 2018, with regard to the vote in the whole draft law were confirmed by the Bureau:]] "Structuring of the Act of Completion of the National Bank of Greece Donation Convention in favour of the Greek State and the N.D. N.A. “The Evangelism - Ophthalmistry of Athens - Polyclical” and other provisions”. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the agenda, I would like your attention. As you know, February 4th is World Cancer Day. It is a day of reflection and collective action, with the aim of involving everyone in the fight against the disease, because it is only in listening to that particular word that each one of us is freezing and paralyzing. I do not wish to mention numbers, but unfortunately I must say that thousands of new cases of cancer are being diagnosed in our country every year. A lot of them aren't healing. For these patients, it is a real 'fruitful'. He knows that and lives almost every Greek family. It is therefore a moral obligation for the state and the competent authorities to do everything at all costs not only to limit patients with cancer, but until it becomes a mere chronic disease. There is no economic dimension here. As a Parliament of the Greeks, we are actively involved in this national effort to raise awareness. This is why tomorrow, at 6 p.m. and until Sunday morning the House will be enlightened with the world day logo and the motto of the campaign "We change to live!" We are changing means, for our part, to do what we owe ourselves, our families, our children and our homeland. Follow as closely as we can the simple instructions included in the tenth anti-cancer, as formulated by the Greek Anticancer Society. Let us all finally become active citizens in cancer prevention, because we can all. We wholeheartedly hope that today's weakness in science for full and definitive treatment is just temporary and very soon it will prove that cancer is not invincible. Thank you very much for your attention. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 5 February 2018 to the House. A. Update Questions first (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Iamatic Bathrooms and Karditsa tourism policy". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 948/30-1-2018, a timely question by MP Fthiotidas of the New Democracy, Christos Stakouras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Enlargement and completion of the process of repayment of public debts to private individuals’. 3. The question by number 942/29-1-2018 of the Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Loss for benefit from the night-end and increased VAT on the islands". 4. The Question No 953/30-1-2018 by Mr. Attica of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the problems of the students. B. Updated Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 949/30-1-2018, a topical question from the New Democracy MP, Nikis Kerameos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Turkey and lawlessness in the Higher Institutions" 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 954/30-1-2018 by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To be paid to the former employees of ATE all that is due to them". 3. The question by number 879/23-1-2018 by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gregorios Stojannidis to the Minister of Finance, on "Following the licensed number of jobs in casinos". 4. The 880/23-1-2018 topical question by MP Dodecanese of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Gakis to the Minister of Health, on "Measures for the dental treatment of disabled children in the island." 5. The Question No 849/16-1-2018 by MP Arta of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Stylios to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Illustration picture presents the General Hospital of Artas”. 6. The 851/16-1-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the problems of personnel shortages, building infrastructure and equipment at the Hospital of Agios Nikolaos Lassithi. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP I Thessaloniki by the Radical Left Coalition Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Health, entitled "Pediatric Hospital in Western Thessaloniki". 8. The Question No 708/2-1-2018 by the Deputy Minister of Attica, New Democracy, Georgiou Vlachos, to the Minister of Health, on the application of claw back to appropriate health providers and contractors, importers, distributors - suppliers of medical devices. 9. The Question No 754/8-1-2018 by MP Achaias, New Democracy, Jasona Fotilla, to the Minister of Health, on "In a marginal situation the infrastructures of public hospitals in the country". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 180/5-10-2017 of the Deputy Drama of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Following vacant posts of educational staff in the Department of Oenology and Food Drama of TEI Drama". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 895/2-11-2017 by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The need to rationalise the number and the minimum amount of payment of the instalments of inheritance, donations and parental benefits". 3. Question No 2290/28-12/2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARK Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To renew the concession of use to the Ministry of Justice in order to proceed with the maintenance and improvement of the existing judiciary of Heraklion (Court of First Instance - Peace Building)". 4. The question asked by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The establishment of an Environmental Education Centre (CIC) in Antonis Tritsis Park". 5. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Health, entitled ‘Recommendation of an EKAV station in Naples Boeia of the Municipality of Monemvasia’. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Today, two topical questions will be discussed. We begin with the first, with the number 946/30-1-2018, a timely question for the first cycle of the Parliamentary of Attica, New Democracy, Georgios Vlachos, to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the subject: "Eleisinas coastal front yields to the citizens of the city". The question will be answered by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, over time many actions have found a place on the Elefsina coastline, degrading the area and cutting off the city's residential tissue from the sea front. The constant efforts of local society, as well as the intrinsic problems of these business activities, have led to the cessation of polluting facilities. Thus, Elefsina's homogeneous demand was made, these areas were attributed by the municipality to local society to improve the living conditions of the inhabitants. This request was formalised by decisions of the municipal council, which were adopted and supported by regional government, as well as by the gathering of a protest outside the Prime Minister's Office on 3-11-2017. The particular request shall also identify the areas to be used, which are: Firstly, the Kalymbaki area, ten acres of land area. Secondly, part of the Vulkhas bay, which in the past operated a refinery, which heavily burdened the area, since to date there are still residues, but also a sapiocaravo, as well as the twenty decommissioned and harmful ships from all over the country. Thirdly, the coastal front of the city in front of the venue for the cultural events "ASCHOLIA". Furthermore, the front from the corner of Saturn to the marina "IRIS", the two parks - building blocks 2B and 2C - the front from the old port and west to the pier of "AEGEAN", where today the only plane of the area is forty meters long, as well as other sports and cultural facilities. Also, an area of 7,000 sq.m., south of Diogenous Street, where the municipality has built the “Georgios Romeliotis” court, which hosts many sports clubs of the city and the wider area. As a result of all these pressures, Mr President, on 18 December, the Prime Minister declared: 'In the context of a stable policy that we have and the performance of free spaces in public use, I would like to inform you that he is already ready and that legislation will be tabled in the next few days, which is attributed to the city and the citizens of Elefsis, the coastal front of the city by moving the port of goods so that today's port can be used exclusively for leisure and leisure purposes'. However, despite the pre-accession commitment, it is a dispersal impression, Minister, that the Ministry disagrees with you and prevents the transfer of these spaces to the municipality for a shared and shared purpose. Efforts are being made to relaunch polluting and outdated activities in the region. They are heard in local business names. The Ministry's conflict with the region is recorded. The SYRIZA MPs of the region silence "for the tambacier", which are the interests seeking political expression and support of course. For these reasons, Minister, I would like you to answer four questions: Firstly, why does the government fall back on the concession of these three important parts of the city's coastal front, which, in 2021, will host the institution of the European Capital of Culture? Secondly, why does the Government, through the Elefsina Port Agency, not prepare a study to move the port into a new position and instead draw up a master plan for the existing position? Thirdly, does the Ministry of Shipping guarantee that none of the sixty-two dangerous and harmful ships in the wider region of Piraeus will be transferred to the Gulf of Elefsina and that the gradual removal of nineteen - twenty, which I said earlier, from the Gulf of Elefsina, starting with the ship's environmental bomb "SLOPS", will begin? Fourthly, will the government respect the urban study on Kalympaki, for which the municipality has spent over 500,000 euros, or will it make concessions for the installation of a shipyard or a dissolution next to the Kalympaki settlement, i.e. inconsistent with the urban study, even when two shipyards in the Gulf of Elefsina are phytosanitary? That is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-seven students and students and four educational attendants from the 5th Glyfada High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You should be aware that there is currently a procedure in which the Member has the right for a timely matter to address a direct question to the Minister and the Minister to answer the honourable Member in turn. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I sincerely want to thank you both for the interest and for the interesting question and for the facilitation, because in the previous definition there was a problem that I did not have to come to answer. My dear colleague, Greece has not been a member since this government took over, and you have already been a Member and a Minister. What's going on in Elefsina, I guess you won't say that they've become now, to be informed in this Chamber, because we're coming here as baby virgins many times and we're saying things like it wasn't yesterday. Elefsina has about thirty submerged ships in her bay. Elefsina has three shipwrecks, one on each other, where people were killed. Elefsina has the famous "SLOPS", which is a bomb. That's all there. Wasn't there a state ever? What did we do? There was a request from the Municipality of Aspropyrgos, the Municipality of Eleusina and the Municipality of Megares. Is it now? Ladies and gentlemen, it is a timely request for these cities to be accessed to the sea. What happened, and with the Prime Minister's encouragement now? And it is not a programme, ladies and gentlemen, which concerns only this region. Ask to see what happened. And, if you like, he's not the Mayor of Alexandroupolis, who's coming to SYRIZA. Ask what happened in Alexandroupolis. After thirty years he was satisfied with about fifty acres. Same in Kavala, as in Patras, and so in Heraklion, Igoumenitsa. The Port Authority proceeded with this request - because these are what you need to know that the Port Authority manages them, does not manage them by the Ministry of Shipping - and satisfied a request from the Municipality of Megarea in Nea Peramo, granted and satisfied a request from the Municipality of Aspropyrgos on two points and we have occasionally various requests from the Municipality of Elefsina. Other request in 2016, other request in 2017. Of the six demands requested by the Municipality of Elefsina, four are met. And so the city has comfortable access. You mentioned them, I don't need to mention them. There's two of them left. However, as far as the solvent is concerned, I would like to make it clear in every direction that there is no such matter. Besides, the Ministry of Shipping does not give it permission, Mr. President, we need to know what we say when we come to the House. The nomination of such actions is given by the hereditary region. Therefore, at least from us, this does not exist. There are two cases left, which you mentioned. There is the master plan under way, which I think in three months' time will be completed, because even the master plan did not have Eleusina, such an important port, to say things here by their name. And in this area there is an orgasm in all the ports of the country. Because without a master plan, everything was done, very peacefully. So now the master plan comes in and submits a letter and says "s expect the master plan to be completed and you will then proceed in these two cases". And here is a question, Mr Colleague, and I address myself to a man who knows what he says and what he wants. Is this supposed to be the new port? If there is a different view, the municipality must say that. We can't fly flares if some people don't want to. For there are also such people in Elefsina who do not want the new port. If, therefore, any of the institutions in the region do not want to do so, submit a new request to the organization and say 'we do not want the new port, proceed to the concession of both these areas'. And move the organization forward. I have no objections. But we need to know what we're talking about. So let it be submitted by the region and by the municipality or by any other institutional demand that they do not want a new port. Because I, personally, believe that you, as a Member of the region, agree on the development of the new port.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Vlao, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u7	Minister, I asked you very specific questions and only for the port of Elefsina. You responded to me about the ports of almost all of Greece. You told me about the Greats, about Aspropyrgos, which is my area, you told me about Alexandroupolis and you spent a lot of time, and that without being specific, about the port of Elefsina. You have invoked the decisions of the region. But I, looking here, found that you are, let me say, in a war situation with the Attica Region, namely the West Attica Antiregion, since you are now only communicating via the Internet. I see reports from the Vice-President of the style: 'The Minister will respect the will of the people of Elefsina and the Prime Minister of the country, giving to local government all six areas on the coast front of Elefsina, or will he also become the protagonist of the same work for forty years'. And I see another post that says: "Since the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Mr. Kourublis, at today's meeting he called, in the presence of the three municipalities of Western Attica, for the implementation of the Prime Minister's decision on the concession of the coastline front of Elefsina, he told me that because I supported the position of Prime Minister, he would throw me out instead of the Minister, I said I was leaving." When this climate exists, do you come to tell me today that everything is going well and what do we want the remaining two to become? Here is a master plan. You promised - the Prime Minister, that is - that is to say, moving the port and the existing space to make use of, if you like, only for entertainment purposes. Now, we are told that the master plan that it draws up, and it is very good to say - and it is not time to say why it is now being prepared and it has not been done in the past - is being done on the existing point and not on the movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u8	What point?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u9	Where he is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u10	What do you suggest? Is it going to become the new port?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u11	It's done. But the Prime Minister has committed himself and there you will answer me if you agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u12	The Prime Minister announced a new port.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u13	I invoke the words of the Prime Minister. You won't step on two boats, but one will say, but the other will say. The Prime Minister said: "...by moving the freight port so that today's port can be used exclusively for recreation and entertainment."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u14	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u15	Master plan isn't about that! So there, you're not in position. I also told you that there are areas that the municipality is asking to integrate into the city's residential web. I told you earlier that Elefsina has an access to the sea for a bath, about forty meters. We told you that there are spaces that need to be integrated into the expansion of the town plan, to find the town plan, namely the residential fabric, access to the sea. That's what you're not answering. And the worst is that in local society, because "the few houses are a bad village", Minister, the names of various businessmen, who have been there for years and have created the situation that they have created and which has not been pleasant to everyone. And because you said to me, "But now that's what happened?" No, it didn't happen now. But you've been ruling for three years. In all three years, tell me the slightest thing that happened in Elefsina in that direction. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is the essence and we want the pre-accession commitments that have been made. Because the municipality's decisions are recent, they are within 2017. The municipality’s requests for concession of these areas are in 2017, are not five years ago and ten years ago. Now, then, there is a specific proposal from the municipality, and you must respond specifically to it, and at the end - finally, to cooperate with the local authorities, the municipality and the region, for the benefit of the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u17	I shall conclude, Mr President. However, there is a legitimate suspicion here that we are telling the official events - such as the Western Attica development conference - through the Prime Minister and others that the Ministry and the port agency are planning. That's what you need to get a clear position on. At the end of the day, from what you have said and what the world will judge us, Mr Minister. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vlavo. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u19	Colleague, we have to be a little close to reality. What did the Prime Minister say? Access to the sea and development of the port. Do we agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u20	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u21	Both of them are being pushed forward right now. If we do not want the port, we will have to meet the municipality's request for these two points. I personally have no objections. So ask you and say that you do not want the new port. Say it, dear, Mr. Vlalo. Don't take this away from me. Or any other institutional player in the region can say it. What can we do? Not all of this is done and we get all the land. The city with what we are providing at the moment gains in every respect very important access to the port, to the sea. These are four points which I will present to you here. And, of course, the existing port is opening up after the commercial activity is transferred to another place - in the case at issue - and the city will also have access to that area. For the first time, the city becomes such a possibility. But I'm telling you again. With what you're saying, I think you're unfair to yourself and me. I don't want to talk anymore because I can tell you better than you can tell me what interests exist in the area.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u22	Tell them by names, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u23	Leave it now. When the time comes, I'll tell you. I say, do you want a new port? Yes or no? So you put the request and say that you do not want a new port and that these two areas should be granted, and I shall plead. What else can I do to you? But say it. You cannot tell the world that you want port and at the same time satisfy a request from other people who claim the municipality and who have as their flag that they do not want another port. That is the reality, Mr Vlalo, and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u24	I told you about the master plan to move the harbor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u25	You're not listening, Mr. Vlavo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u26	Let go, Mr. Vlavo. I'm closing and I'm telling you. What the Prime Minister said is absolutely respected, and access by cities to the sea - which had never been made - and the new port. But if there is a different view from the city, let the mayor say so. I have asked him to say so, to send it in writing - or any other factor - and to say that they do not want the new port and to submit the new request. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Because these concession decisions were not taken now. There is a consensus on the Agency's board of directors on the four points for Aspropyrgos and the Megaras, which I mentioned. And they disagree on two points. Because it comes the letter of the consultants working on the master plan and they say that until the master plan is completed, which will identify the points of the new port, these two points should not be granted. What can we do now? What do you want us to do? We must be close to reality and not live with fantasies. That's the reality. From there, we're going to talk about Elefsina, about what's going on in Elefsina, what image Elefsina has, what's going on, about the dangers. That is what you have not been talking about, ladies and gentlemen, for so many years. These were the "night mothers" of smuggling. Nobody's talking about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u27	Three years, what have you done? You didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u28	You know exactly what we've been doing for three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we continue, I would like to make a statement to this House, and to read out the hindrances because they will not answer any questions. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Workery of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and an attendant of the 5th Municipal School of Painter. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The second, with number 951/30-1-2018, a topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the "relocation of the irregular immigrants into hosting structures and the immediate evacuation of the two atypical camps", will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The relevant Ministry is the Ministry of the Interior. The third, with number 955/30-1-2018, a top-circuit question from the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Removal of polluting facilities from the region of the Linopera of the Municipality of Maleviziou", will not be discussed due to an obstruction of the Minister responsible, Mr. Stathakis. Cause it's the workload. The third, with number 874/22-1-2018, a topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Financing from PPC S.A. the work of improving the street Pournaria - Kyriou Bridge - Mygdalia, worth 500,000 euros", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the appropriate Minister, Mr Stathakis. Cause it's the workload. The sixth question, under number 752/8-1-2018, is a second question for the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "What goals has our country taken in the battle for climate change?", will it not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of the Environment and Energy, Mr. Stathakis. Cause it's the workload. The first under number 947/30-1-2018, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, New Democracy, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister for Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Havaluation and effects in coastal areas of Achaia”, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Socrates Famelou. The cause is his involvement in a government mission. The fourth under number 801/11-1-2018, a topical question by the Senate MP of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Aid for the reconstruction of Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ), will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr.Alexandros Haritsis. The cause is his involvement in a government mission. The fifth question under number 758/8-1-2018 of the PASOK Democratic Incorporation - DIMAR Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Incorporation of sewerage networks and sewerage treatment projects Kontovassina, Levidi and Callianios Arcadias", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Alexandros Haritsis. The cause is his involvement in a government mission. We are now entering the second with number 922/24-1-2018, a timely question for the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Invitations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to buy red loans for military officials with public money". The Minister of Economy and Development will answer Mr. Dimitrios Papadimitriou. Mr Odysseus Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, let me tell you - and after hearing the questions to the Minister representing the government - that you are tempting the ministers. They have too much workload. Mr. Stathakis has five months to come. It's getting a little tired! I see you tired. Mr. Haritsis, who is yours at the Ministry, has to come - I think - a month. Look at what's going on with the government. But you will now tell me 'is there any emotiveness?' You're the one who's lived abroad. In England yesterday, a Undersecretary resigned because he was 30 minutes late. You spend six months, four, five months and tell us you're tired. In any case, let us also judge the Bureau, the Government and the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u31	You will allow me, because I have not said so, to do so, there is also a letter from the Secretary of Government, Mr Kaloger. I refer to this for the House and refer to it in addition. I did not say that as an answer to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u32	However, if they cannot and have a workload, the Secretary-General of the Government or the Prime Minister resting any Minister, because five months have passed to come to answer whether PPC has the money or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u33	Mr Constantinople, because of the time, which I do not want to deprive you of, I would ask you to move on to your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u34	The previous speakers, Mr President, have spoken for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u35	You will speak respectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u36	Minister, your Government has voted for the purchase of red loans on the secondary market, on funds, on cords, as your colleagues and colleagues have said. Now Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Vitsa - who say that he is in contact with you, says Mr. Vitsas in an interview, and I can present it to you - say that the Autonomous Construction Agency of the Mississippi Army, Sea and Air Force will buy the green and red loans from the systemic banks of the officials, the military and civilian staff, as well as the retired. Indeed, it says that they will sell the loans to those who had taken them at the prices that the collector companies would sell, i.e. the collector companies you voted for, to sell them. I give you one example, because I think that the discussions with you must be at a high level. Mr. Vitsats says that we are in contact with the Ministry of Finance, Bank of Greece, etc. In fact, Mr. Vitsas continues by saying, 'cause there's a plan here, we've got 2 million and we're going to buy out the whole red loan. In your reply, it will be decided whether the government approves another suggestion - to say it like this and I will hear your answer and then refer - to one of the so-called'scatch the memos', etc., but now there are no memos or anything else. In any case, Minister, there is also a question of seriousness here. If you have contacted Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Vitsa on this matter, the rest of you must follow, as well as other social groups. I would ask you to tell us whether this plan exists and whether the government will proceed with it in the rest of the social groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Constantinople, I have to make a correction. I think you mentioned Mr. Vitsa and the Treasury and not the Ministry of Economy. As you know from communications in this Chamber, the government is determined to resolve the problem of red loans. In its efforts it constantly improves existing institutions, such as the law on highly indebted households and introduces new institutions, such as the extrajudicial mechanism. A further tool in trying to regulate red loans, if there is a financial possibility, is also the provision of investment funds in order to facilitate borrowers and to offer proposals for regulation which could not be offered by credit institutions. This is precisely the tool that plans to exploit the Ministry of National Defence by taking over the loans of Armed Forces officials from the Autonomous Building Organisation of Officers. In any case, this move will require some legislative intervention in order to properly adapt the founding law of the Autonomous Construction Agency and to add to its activities the acquisition of loans, either directly or through the establishment of an anonymous company. However, whatever procedures are required, we believe that this action by the Ministry of National Defence will offer solutions beneficial to everyone, given its already careful planning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u39	We thank the Minister for his brief reply. Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u40	I now understand that it is a government policy which seems to be being worked out. However, I propose that the Ministry of Education and Mr Gavroglou buy the red loans from teachers, primary, secondary and higher education, and I will ask him a similar question. I also propose that the Minister for Rural Development buy the red loans from farmers, like the relevant ministers of all the other ministries. Obviously, Minister, and this news you are saying today is very important, and I think everyone will be very pleased. I do not understand why, at the time, you proposed to buy the secondary market, because all the ministries could buy the loans for them and give them the price you are going to make on the basis of the legislation you are going to bring. So I'm waiting. We are going to put a question to all the ministries about what the Ministry of National Defence is doing now, you will have to do it to all the ministries. Of course, Minister, there is one issue. And there is a question because you have already allowed to buy funds and the banks have sold them. How did you allow that? There'll be two rules? There's gonna be two yards and two weights? Some of the loans will have been sold and others will you buy them? So we're gonna find out who they are, and we're gonna buy them out? So I'm waiting, Minister. And I think it is excellent to hear today about the fact that every ministry, every average agency, will be able to buy the loans. And we will inform ADEDY, GSEE, WTO, the Ministry of Health and all the organisations to prepare themselves, so that they will soon move forward and buy out the loans of the people who exist, such as the Ministry of Health, for example, where the nurses have suffered a very great decline. I believe that this must be done immediately so that it can benefit, not only from a small number, but from the whole of the citizens of the country. Thank you very much, because I think you have opened up new data for the borrowers in the country today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Constantinople, it doesn't surprise me for putting words in my mouth. I didn't say what you just said. I said about this fund and said that there was a need for legislative intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u43	Why the other funds didn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u44	Let me talk. Generally, the acquisition of red loans by public sector entities can offer solutions beneficial to all, both for credit institutions and, above all, for their own borrowers. We are considering the possibility of extending such an action, but we are looking at it with particular care, so that neither a budgetary deficit nor a new wave of strategic misappropriations can be caused. So I did not say that all ministries can do that, Mr Constantinople. So don't put words in my mouth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u45	But after he said Mr. Kammenos would do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Constantinople, the Minister was clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u47	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u48	We cannot continue the debate, it is completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u49	Minister, since you agree to do so...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Constantinople, he answered. You don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u51	...why don't you do an organization?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Constantinople, you don't sound. I think the Minister answered you. You raised your question as well. I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 'Management of protected areas and other provisions'. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-02-S1-commons.u53	With the consent of this House at 11.05 p.m. the sitting for the next Monday, February 5, 2018, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
