ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Part I) In accordance with the provisions of the Code of Conduct of Members of the Greek Parliament: 1. Taking a decision on the proposal by the President of Parliament for the imposition of the disciplinary measure of resentment of the MP, Ilias Cassidyri, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Article 8 of the Code of Conduct for breach of the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (e) of Article 2 of the Code of Conduct of Members of Parliament (VAT No 67/184-2016), in conjunction with cases (d) to (d) of Rule 77 and of Rule 80 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics was issued by the 17/2/2018 recommendation, which has been distributed to you, according to which the members of the committee recommend by a majority that the disciplinary measure should be imposed on the reliance of the Member on anti-parliamentary behaviour of Mr Ilias Kasidiaris. This case concerns the interparliamentary and inappropriate behaviour of the Member at the meeting of the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs on Wednesday 17-1-2018. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Taking a decision on the proposal by the President of Parliament for the imposition of the disciplinary measure of resentment for anti-parliamentary behaviour of the President of the Group of the People's Party - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michaliokos and of the MPs Mr Panagiotis Eliopoulos and Ilia Kasidiari, in accordance with the provisions of Article 8 of the Code of Conduct, to violate the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (e) of Article 2 of the Code of Conduct of Members of the Greek Parliament (PHP A 67/18-4-2016), in conjunction with cases (d) and (h) of Rule 77 and of Rule 80 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. The appropriate Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics was issued by the number 18/13-2018, which has been distributed to you, according to which the members of the committee recommend, by a majority, that the disciplinary measure be imposed on the reliance on the anti-parliamentary behaviour of the above Members. This case concerns the anti-parliamentary and inappropriate behaviour of the President of the People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michaliokos and the MPs Mr Panagiotis Eliopoulos and Ilia Kassiri, at meetings (a) of the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs on 6-3-2018, (b) of the plenary session on 7-3-2018 and (c) of Parliament on 8-3-2018. In case (a) of Article 8 of the Code of Conduct: '(a) In the case of a demonstration of behaviour in breach of the general principles of Article 2 of this Code (may be imposed) revocation in order to apply Rule 78 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and, in particularly serious cases, a reproach for non-parliamentary behaviour, in accordance with Rule 80 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure.' In accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 of Rule 80 of the Rules of Procedure: ‘2. Following the President's proposal of reproach, the person concerned shall be asked to explain for a maximum of five (5) minutes of the time, after which, if the President maintains his proposal, the House shall decide by uplift and without debate....'. ‘3. The Parliament's decision to make reproach for the non-parliamentary behaviour against a Member of Parliament automatically implies that he should be cut within a quarter (1⁄4) of his monthly allowance.’ In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents at its meeting on 12 March 2018, we have accepted, due to the seriousness of the matter and exceptionally, that, if they so request, the parliamentary representatives of the parties should be allowed to speak for five minutes. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u2	The House agreed. The floor will be given, if they so wish, by Mr. Nicholas Michaloliakos for five minutes, by Mr. Panagiotis Ilioopoulos for five minutes, for five minutes for both cases. It will also have the floor for any parliamentary representative who wishes. Mr. Cassidy has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u3	As regards the five-minute question you mentioned, the correct one under Rule 8(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure is as follows and I read it in order to correct what was said by the Bureau: "In all cases, the Member shall be called before the disciplinary measure is imposed before the President of Parliament or Parliament in order to develop his views within twenty minutes". So that's not the five-minute thing. I have twenty minutes to develop my views on every sentence you wish to impose on me. So I will begin with the first decision, unacceptable, illegal and unconstitutional decision, to impose...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Cassidy, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u5	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u6	Because you didn't come to the Ethics Committee and sent a document...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u7	I have tabled a memorandum to the Ethics Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u8	...it didn't make any sense for the president to invite you to a debate. That's why you weren't called. Therefore, limit yourself to time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u9	Wait a minute. Do you want to abolish Rule 8(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure? Do you realize that what you're saying now is completely unfounded and unfounded? If anything, ask the Legal Service of Parliament, to explain why what you are saying has nothing to do with ethics and the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. The Rules of Procedure are clear here. I do not repeat it, I read it: The time that each Member has for his 'apology' is twenty minutes, for each 'profession' which you are accusing us of. I don't want to abuse time anymore...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u10	Let me tell you, the twenty minutes that the President would listen to you, no one else would hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u11	What you're saying is that the president would listen to me...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u12	So we are now in plenary. Five minutes, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u13	We're in plenary. As the Rules of Procedure state - I read it again why you did not follow me, Madam President - 'in all cases the Member is called before the disciplinary measure is imposed, before the House or the Discontinuation Department of Parliament' - that does not exist now - 'in order to develop his views within 20 minutes'. What do you want us to do now? You have abolished the Constitution, you have abolished legality. Should we abolish the regulation that expressly states it? [[Noise in the Chamber]] I have addressed serious legal advisers, dozens of legal advisers, to serious constitutionalists. That is what the Rules of Procedure state. Don't attempt a new coup here. Please! "In front of the House of Parliament," the Rules of Procedure state. And I'm starting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u14	Mr Cassidy, I read the decision of the Conference of Presidents, which decided, by way of derogation, five minutes for you and five minutes, if a parliamentary representative wishes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u15	Do you want to tell me that the Conference of Presidents has the possibility of abolishing the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u16	It's not dismantling.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u17	Is that what you're telling me right now? What do you want? Can you bring the police down to me under the Step?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u18	Of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u19	What are you talking about? Are you a little serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u20	Easy, easy, easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u21	Here there is a Rules of Procedure of Parliament and no decision by any Conference of Presidents can be abrogated by the Rules of Procedure. So let me move on to my suggestion of your first reproach. It is permanent practice to impose fines on us, to impose miscarriages on us, as if we were in high school and because we have no proper conduct, in your view, to expel us. All this, however, has absolutely no impact on the legitimate, completely legal, political action of the People's League - Golden Dawn. Especially to cut wages, especially this measure, I say that it leaves us indifferent to ourselves. And since half my wage will still be cut, I would like to inform not only the House, but also the people in particular, that as a member of the Golden Dawn I pay the first half of my wage to the party, because with another illegal measure that you have voted on, the party has no funding. So the penalty imposed on me is, in essence, the reduction in the entire wage for this month, but no role is played in my political activity. I took the Minutes to read what was said on this committee of Parliament. And I was amazed to read by the President, Mrs Christodoulopoulos, that she considers what I wrote in my letter that the President of the Parliament acts as a party seat. Mrs Christodoulopoulos regards it as excitement to the "participating party" and punishes me with dismissal and with wage cuts. And the next day he comes here in Parliament, this particular one tells Athanasios of the New Democracy "has been in hell", here in the House, and considers the "participatory seat". And that's not all. And SYRIZA's MP, Mr. Balafas, had called PASOK's MP Constantinople "a stink". And SYRIZA's MP from the ministerial benches had told Georgiadis of New Democracy that it was "the chess of society". And Georgiad had answered, "I'll tear out your mustaches, asses!" However, there was no reproach for all this. For all these disgraceful things, when you, that is, turn the Chamber into a chameleon and a café there there there is no reproach. Formation exists when the Golden Dawn calls the President of Parliament a "party seat"! So here you do not intend to respect ethics. Your aim is to exclude and prosecute the nationalist movement of the Golden Dawn. I'm going to the big deal. You give me a resignation, he says, because in the committee where the Cypriot Foreign Minister was present, who intended to speak about the Exclusive Economic Zone of Greece, about the collapse of the Turkish threat, I intended to mention some of the proposals of the Golden Dawn concerning secret plans of national defence for the conversion of Greek forces into Cyprus, because this is the only way that the Turkish threat can be crushed, because only with the Type 214 submarines and with the Mirage 2000-5 in Cyprus can we control the Eastern Mediterranean and the airspace above the small inland. I was going to talk about these issues very seriously and critically, while the MPs of the entire anti-constitutional arc were talking about issues which were irrelevant to the national defence and security of Greece. In this committee, therefore, they saw the participation of a Member, who Erdogan had called his own. It doesn't matter, of course, what Erdogan says. Erdogan's a paranoid dictator and none of that matters. It is important, however, that these four Muslim MPs do. This is important to Parliament, because according to Rule 51(2) of the Constitution, parliamentarians represent the nation. Article 51(2) of the Constitution: ‘The MPs represent the nation’. It is therefore illegal and unconstitutional to see Members of the Greek Parliament dressing up the Turkish flag and worshiping Mustafa Kemal! The MPs represent the nation and the nation has paid heavy blood tax.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u22	Illegal and unconstitutional is you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u23	We paid a lot of blood to take out the half-life of Greece and the nation, which the MPs represent, is well aware of and does not forget the crimes of Mustafa Kemal and the new Turks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u24	Golden Dawn crimes don't forget.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u25	It is therefore illegal and unconstitutional to have Members in the Greek Parliament who dress the Turkish flag and worship the slaughterer Mustafa Kemal. So this forbids the Constitution, which is the supreme law of our country and with faith in this law the People's Association - Golden Dawn will continue to resign, will continue to denounce, will continue to say 'no' to the sellout of our country!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u26	You're with Hitler!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u27	So this is the decision that is being taken. We don't care at all. What the President of this House said here is out of law. What he said is that everyone has the right to wear whatever flag he wants, to worship whatever flag he wants in the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u28	You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u29	As I have explained, under Article 51(2) it is illegal. This illegality continues, this criminal activity against Greece and within the Greek Parliament and the Golden Dawn will continue to denounce it as much as the other parties and other anti-constitutional forces are united against us. I want to close my location. I want to leave aside any party disagreements, which at national level are very critical and I want to make a request to the Bureau of Parliament to keep a minute's silence on a great hero of Hellenism, the last commander of the Greek Army to defeat the Turks, who crushed Attila in Cyprus in 1974, the hero General Papamelou, whose soul is now on the side of his warriors and defeated the Turks twice: one at the airport of Nicosia with the 1st Monastery of Campaigns and one at the invasion of the Turkish armoured people who wanted to occupy Nicosia as a whole. For this hero, I close my position and call on the House to keep a minute's silence. Because, above all, General Papameteleou and the 1st Mate of Campaigns sent out the message that when Greeks are united and well armed they can crush every opponent, especially Turkey!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u30	It was you on the other side!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u31	When we're united, we're not afraid of anyone. This is the message that the People's Association - Golden Dawn sends in every direction today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Cassidy, the plenary is not making any setbacks here. We are discussing the proclamation of hatred and intolerance, which you are doing permanently and specifically at the expense of the Members you have spoken about, but also of all the others that exist in Parliament. These clearing proposals are not allowed, because someone has said something or someone else once again. The Nazi reason is doomed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u33	What are you talking about? Same again? Whatever you say!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u34	That's what I'm saying. You spoke. What do you want, sir? Please. Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u35	I'm indignant with you, with your behavior!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u36	Calm down, calm down. Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u37	There's no Nazi reason. There is a nationalist reason behind the Golden Dawn. The Nazis, let them go so we don't give up on you. Mr President, can you hear them? Are you here, Mr. Voutsi? Nazi word of Golden Dawn? Really? Hey, Mr. Voutsi? Nazi reason? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I'll tell you, Mr. Voutsi, since you're here and you're watching us, I've been playing a game the other day, which I've been playing since I was a kid and I've been playing it in a new execution, the version of the Game of Thrones, in which foreign loan sharks can buy what they want in our homeland, Mr. Voutsi. It's been happening in recent years. And I say, look at that, how this is happening in our homeland. They can buy ports, they can buy PPC, OTE, airports, streets, everything, Mr. Voutsi. And in fact, there is a small block that says "go to prison" in this particular game, which was implemented by the craving, the previous Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, and sent the leader of the third party to prison and MPs and executives because they bothered him. "Monopoly", Mr Voutsis, the Greek Parliament and you your lord. You are also acting unconstitutionally, Mr. Voutsi, because I will table Article 61 of the Constitution here because you, Mr. Voutsi, are above the Constitution. Let me read it, let me read it. ‘Article 61 of the Constitution, ‘Volumes of the Greeks’, logo: ‘The Member shall not be persecuted or examined in any way for his opinion or for his vote in the course of his parliamentary duties’. And you, unconstitutional, are calling us here with a so-called regulation that you have invented in recent years just to fade us. You're not gonna do it. Your regulation is unconstitutional, Mr. Voutsi. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou, presents for the minutes the above article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And we would very much like to be punished under this Rules of Procedure so that we can move this, make it our flag, show how unconstitutionally you are acting against the Golden Dawn. But the Golden Dawn is here and will strengthen every day. With your endlessness and retreat to the Turks and with this rajadism summoning us here instead of calling on the four Muslims, which I will show you a few reasons for summoning them to apology. This is where you'll see now. You call on us to apologize! May 2016, Hussein Zabeck: "Of course with Mother Homeland there is an inseparable bond. We're like meat with the nail. We want a strong Turkey. We are proud of Turkey's strengthening steps." Hussein Zabeck, May 2016. On 19 May 2013, Ilhan Ahmet at the Western Thrace Solidarity Association is in favour of independent Thrace. There are pictures here with the green flag, Mr. Voutsi. Do you know what kind of flag that is? It's an independent Thrace. So we will say to these four and to anyone else who wants independent Thrace that when with good in a few years' time the borders of our country change, there will be no independent Thrace, neither western nor eastern. There will be a Thrace, which will be absolutely Greek. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] "The Greek Parliament has therefore approved the legal arrangement with the Turkish minority." Another suspension. That's what Hussein Zabeck says. The picture's in a mosque. I have here to show you, Mr. Voutsi. Take them after. He says here about independent Thrace. Here, he's talking to DEB. Do you know what DEB is? Do you know anything about Thrace, then? DEB is a pro-Turkish party that wants independent Thrace. He has his money at the Turkish bank in ZIRAAT. Here the other wishes to the Turkish minority. He's here with the fake whisperers. Look here and see why you can call them. I'm going to put all this in the Minutes to invite them, Mr. Voutsi, to them. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But you, Mr Voutsi, said that Greek MPs should not have a national conscience. Really? And if they don't have a national conscience, how can they serve the interests of our country? Unless all three hundred here do not serve the interests of our country and someone who says "one's mother" to Turkey and photographed under the head of Kemal Ataturk can serve the interests of our country. So this man cannot serve them. There must be a national conscience. You do not want there to be a national conscience in the Greek Parliament or in society. And that's why, through your Minister here, the unbridled one, you legislate, so that our children can be brave. You, your own children - in and out of import, transport or not your 'children' and you understand very well what I say - do not want and have no national conscience. They're burning the Greek flag. We are creeping through the hearing of the national anthem. We cry on the national anthem, Mr. Voutsi. Do you understand? We cry on the national anthem. Our hair's up! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] How will the hair of the other one rise when Kemal Ataturk is behind him? How will his hair rise when he has the half-life behind? Can you tell me? Will his hair rise when he hears the national anthem? [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Listen to it. Well, listen to it, well. Golden Dawn was born like a spark about...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Heliopoulou, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u39	I can't hear anything. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u40	It's okay. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u41	I can't hear anything. Close what's bothering me. Golden Dawn was born like a spark about forty years ago by the Chief of Nikos Michaloliakos and you can't fade it, because it's not the same as you, nor imprison her. You can't touch her. He lives in the souls of the Greeks. The souls of the Greeks want cleansing, they want personal and national dignity! They want the Golden Dawn of Hellenism! Good night, rotten political system! Long live Greece!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u42	After the sermon...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u43	Nazi reason, too? He's a nationalist!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u44	Completely. What can I tell you? He's a Hitler. She's more advanced. Because I think - from my point of view - that the issue here is not the article of the Constitution establishing freedom of speech to MPs, there are fundamental individual rights in Greece, fortunately, among them Article 5, which says: 'Those who live in Greece enjoy honor, dignity and freedom, regardless of their national origin, from their religious beliefs, from their racial origin and from their political convictions'. [[Applause]] The Golden Dawn does not know that, of course, it is challenging to invoke the Constitution. I mean, we've come... I don't know what to say. Then, ladies and gentlemen, as I said, any parliamentary representative would like to speak. They've already asked why...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u45	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u46	About what? We are now calling on the Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u47	Can I take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u48	Oh, no. Then, in your turn, if you're a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u49	Like in the courts, does the defendant take the floor at the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u50	No, what does the defendant have to do with it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u51	Can I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u52	Are you asking me why? But it's not allowed in this process. [[Noise - Protests]] Come on, Mr. Pappa, get down. You have no right. We have said that the parliamentary representatives will be invited on the basis of the power of the parties. Why do you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u53	In turn!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u54	In turn!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u55	As you wish every time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u56	Oh, no. That's how I've been instructed. Please. Mr. Baltas will take the floor from SYRIZA. From New Democracy Mr. Georgiontas, from the Democratic Incorporation Mrs.Christophilopoulou, from Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas, from the JRC Mr. Giokas, from the ANELs Mr. Papachristopoulos and from the river Mr. Dannelis. The Centro Association has not declared anyone. Here, Mr Balta, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with this: it is clear that our entire region and Greece in particular are going through difficult days that need sobering and other qualities of this nature. Against this background, I think that one of our main weapons is democracy, enlargement and the deepening of the Republic at all levels, in everyday life, within the institutions, interinstitutionally - if you will - and of course within Parliament. Democracy has a quality. It is of the opinion that within a framework which we agree is governed by all of us, a sober debate can produce a result that is stronger and richer than any particular opinion put forward in this context in advance. In this sense, the Republic has a productive force that we must begin to understand how to use. I am referring to democracy for a very specific reason. Democracy, as we all know, has been discovered, invented - whatever you want - in ancient Greece. And it is characteristic that most streams of the ancient Greek clichés forget to refer usually to how democracy works, its achievements and what it teaches worldwide. Democracy was reinvented - if you wish and in a sense changed - in modernity with the great ideas of the thinking of youth and the results of the great political revolutions of modernity, English, American, of course, French and later ours. There the concept of democracy was widened, because there seemed to be a quality in the human being - the only animal that can do so - that it can represent and represent, that one can assume to represent others and be revoked by them if he does not represent them properly. And this possibility extended the area of application of democracy from the ancient city - state to larger territories. I am saying this because perhaps the Republic's main feature in all the other Member States is that it does not allow any kind of extravagant principle for its own foundation. Its foundation is based on the free consultation of the members of the society concerned and on the principle of representation. There are no more mercy of God monarchies, absolute kingdoms, tyranny, etc., because people alone can rule themselves through democracy. Anachronistic, that is, democracy is already being abolished by ancient Greece, the famous Führerprinzip, the beginning of a leader, as was obviously notorious in Germany. Democracy has another characteristic. Allow me to call it 'the humble majesty'. Why? Because a part of the Greek people has shaped a position where accumulated anger and terms of very specific anger have led him to vote self-destructively, in our view, a motif that is currently under investigation as to what it is. It is a criminal organisation. He's in court. This form, of course, is not just a criminal organization. It is a criminal organisation with very specific ideology, with a thousand documents currently being discussed in the courts. It is a Nazi criminal organization and does its crimes in practice, obeying its own nazi ideology. We've all lived. We're all watching. They continue, despite the courts, to commit criminals in this way. They continue to promote the same ideas, although for reasons of strong cowardice they are now hiding behind a new name, the name 'nationalism'. So let me say here that democracy has the potential to defend itself against such forms and, in particular, on two levels. The first level is the level of ideas, of course. And because, as a central idea of the Golden Dawn, the concept of nationalism appears, let me say what the nationalism of the Golden Dawn is. I don't want to go into the chaos talk that separates nationalism from patriotism. This debate is a little more theoretical. I want to say about nationalism as such of the Golden Dawn. Let me say that in history, from the time of occupation until today, until this day that we are discussing here, this nationalism hides something else. It hides a systemic dosing systemic, systemic from the first moment. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] When there's a Nazi conquest here, the ancestors of the Golden Dawn are with Hitler. They unrelentingly beat the patriots, who are trying to defend the country's independence and its liberation, and thus earn what they themselves view as glory. Because the dolphins were not marked as much as they had to do after the end of the war and because this is where the civil war followed, during which the dolphins themselves continued their previous work, and because at the end of the civilisation they liberated into the fringes of the state, recommending what was then called "paracon", until Constantine Karamanlis arrived to announce "Who is finally ruling this country?" After the murder of Lambraki, they continued this type of diet throughout this period. Indeed, he was continued - let me - and on a dictatorship, where they reappeared. Because, as we know, the dictatorship was not just a colonel movement. It was something that was backed up by America at the time. The president of America confessed, coming here. So, then, donors can be called, as fans of the then powerful Americans. And we're getting to today. There is no greater advocate of Erdogan's policy than what the Members of the Golden Dawn have presented to us here. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] If Erdogan had representatives in the Greek Parliament, it would be them. And I imagine that at some point, if he wins his glorious views, he's going to give them up. My position is obviously not here to talk about the Thrace MPs. They adorn the Greek Parliament and not just SYRIZA. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So, ending up because it appeared from the Cassidy talk, here people don't get any words. He'll take whatever course the court takes. Parliament must protect itself with its own means, soft things and what is there. And in view, if necessary, of the strictening of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, I, too, propose, according to what the Ethics Committee says, that - I do not know what the word is - the Golden Dawn is punished as a whole by what Parliament's Rules of Procedure say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u58	Mr Georgiodakis has the floor, and I would ask that, with time, we be a little more consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Madam President. It's not easy being a congressman. You've got a lot of obligations. Beyond the fact that the Constitution is respected, there is also one due to the Rules of Procedure of the House, there is also a code of conduct due to the Code of Conduct. Unfortunately, many times in the past we have allowed ourselves to devalue our role in this House. We have allowed them to speak in a divisive, dismantling, slandering way for colleagues. And there comes a time when you wonder what the limit is. What is the free expression of opinion and vote and what is the limit set by the Rules of Procedure, Article 2 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure for the obligations of Members? The Member is invited to avoid expressions which lead to hatred due to segregation due to racial discrimination because of origin or because of anything else. We have heard a number of slandering speeches against Members in the previous House and in this House. The truth is that we have allowed, up to a certain point, to make a relevant rule that certain limits may be exceeded. When the slander is on a personal level, if it is a slander, it could perhaps be considered as being within the ambiguity of a political controversy. However, when it comes to an entire party or is linked to a specific position, when it is undoubted, when it is unjust, when it creates a division in society, we must all be very careful. Today the different one that, with this possibility that the Rules of Procedure give to the President, we are dealing with is not so much about expressions. It has to do with the right or not of each Member of this Parliament to participate in the relevant committees of the House. This is the core of the right which was essentially questioned. That's what's important and special. It is not just about words, it is about the right of each of us to participate in such a committee, in whatever committee. That's the steak. That is the unacceptable. That's what we can't tolerate. That is what we cannot allow it to be a precedent for this House. Let today be an opportunity of self-criticism for all of us. Let it be the beginning of a new approach and view of all the incidents that despair our role in this House, which are going through the wrong messages in society. And if we are all, on the occasion of this debate, really careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u60	Are we gonna make self-criticism?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u61	Will you say about Golden Dawn?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u62	I address all Members. I have also referred to this particular fact which is condemnable and reluctant. However, the Rules of Procedure are something that must be observed by everyone. Ethics must be respected by everyone. And, of course, we must be tough when he is violated, which the New Democracy will do today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u63	Aren't you going to tell about the racist motto? You're not saying anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u64	Please, be quiet. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, every reason that is obviously insulting, slandering and every reason that offends the other person's personality is measurable. However, we cannot equate reasons which have been heard a little while ago by the Step in plenary, and words said in the Committee on Foreign Affairs in this House, with the merciful behaviour of all those colleagues who have overrun the Code of Conduct in recent years. I therefore agree that the Code of Conduct should be more stringent in all of us, but, to God, let us separate things a little, because this is a declaration of hatred, racism and intolerance and I shall say resentment. Because antheellic is the propaganda that wants the Members of Thrace as a member of the Turkish minority. For those who are talking about flags, I would be ashamed to mention it even, but here on my cell phone I have a picture of today's Members of the Golden Dawn format underneath the swastika. [[Applause]] I would agree that the Republic should give the battle of ideas and values. But the Republic should also defend its own tools: the institutions and the Constitution. Because the clearance, which some people have just spoken about, now from the Step of the House, comes only under democratic regimes to be real cleansing and not because of the collapse of the regime of violence and the establishment of other totalitarian regimes. So here we are before a threat to democracy and democracy must defend itself with its own tools. And her own tools are, as I said, the institutions. In addition, Madam President, I should like to mention - we know - but I would like to refer for a moment to Mr No 4285/2014 on hate, for reasons which discriminates citizens on the basis of the religion, integration into a minority. And what has been heard in the relevant committees, as it is, the way we have taken it from the report you have sent us, is exactly what it is. Because they are doing nothing but blaming the Members of Thrace and giving them - I do not want to mention the terms - such designations as the fact that they belong to the Muslim minority. They want to give them to Erdogan. It is a shame, ladies and gentlemen. It is a disgrace to the Greek Parliament and it is against national interests. It has already been said again, we will highlight it. And it was heard a little while ago, when this country says in all directions that it would not tolerate any trace of Greek land and water on the one hand, but respects the conditions on the other and has proved it in practice. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we, as a Democratic Responsibility, will agree on the proposal from the Committee on Parliamentary Ethics and we will urge that there be a consensus at present so that, in addition to these typical disciplinary penalties, there can also be a wider cross-party consultation of the other democratic parties - because other conditions have been heard here - so that the provisions of this Rules of Procedure that we have today are further improved. Ladies and gentlemen, we should not stop fighting against divisional speeches, because it has been shown that tolerability, which is the quality of democracy, when it is carried out beyond the limits, can result in catastrophicness. And that's what happened. It happened in the Republic of Baimar, and in the first few years of the Nazi regime, they said: "We are elected." Well, it's not Siloam's swimming pool to talk about democracy. And democracy has tolerances, and if these limits do not stick to them today, some will be able to go beyond them tomorrow. And dologues will always exist in all the U.S. regimes. That is why we call 'yes' to today's proposal and say 'yes' to our cooperation so that there is no risk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u67	Madam President, you would have avoided my introduction if you had given me the floor at first. I cannot comment on what was said a moment ago. Let me tell Mr Balta, who probably left the Chamber, that it's their real dowry. They're Merkel and the Memorandum donors. Don't talk. The political ancestors were talking about independent Macedonia and Thrace, which you are doing today. You act, especially on the issue of our Macedonia, what your political ancestors have said. And as far as the "kitto-PASOK" is concerned, it takes perverse courage so that these people can speak for clearance. The New Democracy is also "a little pregnant", "and with the policeman and the policeman", and to round things up a little bit, don't lose any pins of our extremist wings. You said, therefore, because you are the sheep wolves - the others we know - to condemn the golden ones. Isn't that what you said? So I too would like to tell you that in the Committee on Ethics I had addressed you as a man to a man, since I apologise to the ladies present - the expression says so - to tell me if he agrees with your party under the composite name, with the granting of the name of our Macedonia. And you were speechless. You didn't even talk to me in the hallway, having your men's honor and your Macedonian, if you like, origin. As today, ladies and gentlemen, eight years ago, we had received a bombing of our offices at the time, on Socrates Street, from the Fire Nucleus - your favorite children - and our offices were completely destroyed. The Chief of Golden Dawn, Nikos Michaloliakos, said that that night in a fire speech, he said that “we are now coming, we are taking part in the upcoming municipal elections of Athens”. Then we got 5.3% and it was the beginning of our political struggle, which continues until today and will continue until victory. Then a banner had a slogan and said: "The walls fall, the ideas don't." After three years, in September 2013, when persecution had been carried out after you - confessed by you - the political construction of the Archbishop Antonis Samaras of the New Democracy Party, said: "The ideas are not imprisoned." And one month later, in September 2013, "red terrorism" murders two hosts in New Heraklion Attica, George Fountoulis and Manolis Capelonis, who offered their blood to the nation, offered their blood for their homeland, for the idea and faith. And after all this, with all due respect, I am addressing the President of the Parliament: Mr President, you and your allies of the anti-Fraud Arc, do you think that the people of the Golden Dawn, whether they are MPs or we, the expressions of the real national resistance, will be bend or taken seriously into account in your spasmatic actions, these actions that are called 'bottle and fines' and other crap? We have not been solved by'red terrorism', not by the bullets, by political persecution, by imprisonment. You think you can stop the future coming? Can you stop the voice of truth? None of this can stop an idea. We're tomorrow and you're yesterday. The Secretary-General, Nikos Mihaloliakos, said so to your great disappointment in this Chamber. We entered the House in the name of the people, to tell the truth. And that will continue to do at any price. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, you will give me a little more time, as you have given Mr Balta. The defendant always has a tolerance. It would, of course, be a great omission not to thank the Syrian MPs and others who, within the secret Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, raised noise, as well as the President of Parliament, who have raised the matter and give us the opportunity in plenary to say our opinion, to listen to it and to convey the legitimate questions of the Greek people on this matter, regardless of political position. The people are asking themselves: Article 51 says that the Member is a representative of the nation. Of course, the constitutional legislature means - it goes without saying - the Greek nation. So let us state to what nation, because according to Mr Voutsi the Member can have any national conscience he wants and represent any flag he wants, only that he has been elected. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to conclude my reference to the fellow Member otherwise, Mr Voutsi, I would like to reveal from the Minutes of the Conference of Presidents that in spite of his persistence the President of Parliament's Rules of Procedure - and the new Rules of Procedure of Parliament, who you have done and you have cut your measures, cut off and sewed just to use it to plunge the third political force of the country - he said that this is a political issue - there are your words in the Minutes - and that is why Parliament and Parliamentary representatives should be given the opportunity to speak, because this is a political issue. Then why, Mr President, since this is a political issue, are you not dealing with it politically, but are you dealing with it with sanctions and penalties? I am telling you - previous competitors have told you - how interested your sentences are! So you come to confirm Mr. Cassidyris and at least create the impression that you are acting as an institution of SYRIZA and not as an objective President of the Greek Parliament. We want to thank you for what you are doing today. You will now say that - and the previous parliamentary representatives have already said so - hate rhetoric, reaction against democracy, measures against extremes or political correctness. But either way, the truth doesn't change. At a time when it is leaking into the press or leaving suspicions that it will be for one or a half years in Turkish prison the two defenders of our borders, you will punish the only party that defends Greece against the Turkish challenges. I conclude by saying that you could, because we are spending the eighteenth day of captivity of the two Greek soldiers, take political action, the fears that you accepted Erdogan with bazaars and branches to shield the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Pappa, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u69	These actions are to immediately close the Turkish consulate in Thrace, a consulate that oppresses the Greek Muslim minority and not just. Furthermore, along with this, you would be able to block Turkey's trade. What kind of stuff did you do? Nothing. You worship Erdogan and punish us, because we say self-evidently. What are the self-evidents? The Greek is Greek, Bolshevik is Bolshevik, the Euroligoris is a Euroligo, the traitor is a traitor, the Turk is a Turk, the agent is an agent.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u70	And the nazi is a nazi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u71	Nazis is nazis. Say it, say it, get you out of the house, you talking about independent Macedonia and Thrace.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u72	Come on, Mr. Pappa. You've taken more than twice as much time. You'll find more chances.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, the more you hit steel in the ace, the harder it gets. As long as we're persecuted, we'll be so strong. You stay in your glass world of on-call power.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u74	Say thank you to SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u75	And you're the same as the others. You voted in a Memorandum in August 2015. You're the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Pappa, I'll stop the sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u77	Snoop in your glass world and stay rampant. Rags you, rags your children and rags the children of your children. Golden Dawn isn't following you. Golden Dawn is with the people, Golden Dawn is with homeland.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Giokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the attitude of the Members of the Golden Dawn beyond unacceptable is basically very dangerous. Not generally dangerous, not only dangerous or mainly for parliamentary ethics, as it says. It is very dangerous if one takes account of the period when this attitude of the Members of the Golden Dawn is taking place, especially at this time when Turkish provocation and Turkish nationalism are increasing. Based on what we have heard a moment ago, things would be very ridiculous if they were not very serious and indeed very dangerous. What are Erdogan's main axes based on Turkish provocation, aggression and strategy at this time? First axis, the attempt to appear as a protector of Muslim populations in the Middle East, the Balkans - including Thrace - and to identify these Muslim populations with his policy. The second axis of this strategy is the question of international treaties, such as the Losan Treaty. [[Applause]] So, on both these issues, on both sides of Turkey's strategy, the attitude of the Members of the Golden Dawn puts water on the Erdogan mill. That's what's going on. When you name a Greek MP, who comes from the minority as a Turkish agent, regardless of the aspects, who are politically judged, you are actually helping to characterise the Muslim minority and whose representatives as a Turkish minority. That's what you're doing. Also, when you say - because this has been said in the speech of the Chief of Golden Dawn in the House - that, as Erdogan has the border of his heart so we have the borders of our hearts or what was said here a while ago, that we will go and get the rest of Thrace, then you throw water on the mill of all those who run border changes in the area and a review of the international conditions, of those who want to divide peoples, to promote their own interests. And all the things that Golden Dawn is doing in her attitude are neither washed out nor can they get into reasonable netting or we can all do our self-criticism, as Mr Georgiotis said from New Democracy. It's practically the acquittal of the Golden Dawn through the smack. [[Applause]] Finally, it turns out once again that nationalism on the one hand fuels nationalism on the other hand, they feed each other. It highlights what has been historically confirmed, not once or twice, but too often, that the great catastrophes - see Cyprus - have been done with the cloak of ultra-patriotism. It is also evident that it is challenged for politicians to talk about homeland and patriotism, descendants of Tamalayans, Hippies, docologists, nazi partners. [[Applause]] We therefore agree with the proposal on the reproach that is being made. But, above all, all of this is one more reason for the people to isolate the Golden Dawn now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, too, for the accuracy of time. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor from ANEL for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to state from the Independent Greeks my respect for the four Greek Muslim MPs. I really know them and respect them. In my opinion, the Greek Parliament is devoting itself. I mean it and I mean it. But I want to see from another point of view what is happening in our country too, but not just in our country. Many years ago the good journalist George Votsis wrote an article in "ELLEROTYPTIA", in the good newspaper that is no longer in existence, entitled "The crisis of world capitalism", in which the man who blew the Great Britain economy into the air a few years ago, George Soros said, not by kindness, of course, "we already saw the branch that holds us". What he meant, I believe, comes as a conclusion from an oldest book by Conrad Lawrence, an Austrian Nobel Prisoner who was beaten - forgive me the expression - sixty years ago that the way the planet is developing economically leads to what we see today, massive movements of populations, people born and do not have in the sun fate and concentration of wealth in a few people. In other words, the same thing Galbraith said, President Kennedy's financial advisor. He was mad at Galbraith, because he said "given debts to the poor peoples of South America and Africa". Then Pentagon's hawks said he must be crazy. Today we are all collecting, not to be hypocritical, the attempts of this reality, the attempts of offshore, economic paradises, the fact that eight people on the planet, according to the latest OXFAM survey, have assets as much as half the world's poor population. Does it mean anything to you that Sebastian Kurts is running with the far right? Does he say anything to you, not to pretend, that an official opposition in Germany is the AfD? Does he tell you anything that in Italy, Salvini is already headed for it? Does he say anything to you that Wilders is almighty? Are you told anything about the things that far right movements do right now, to raise head and show the hand? My opinion is this: The screams, the swearing for me are unnecessary. If we don't bend on the cause of all the extreme right movements, which like mushrooms fly day after day, if we don't see what it really is, we'll be in front of the surprise Thomas Man has felt, a democrat writer, when he wrote the book "Mario and the wizard" between First and Second World War. In his book "Mario and the wizard" he had predicted the rise of Hitler and Mussolini. We live moments of decline, where some of the Siomples gathered wealth and "land fire" for others. Some Sarkozy disappeared all the economic migrants in their countries and thought that some of the Diaselblums were doing something. I believe, as ever, that it is urgent if we do not want to throw other extreme right movements on the planet - the Greek Government is an oasis to this effort, like the Portuguese Government, like some of the speeches that McCron has said, such as a change of attitude that we see from Merkel - and I want to believe that if we really want the extreme right movements to disappear on the planet, the social state must come back. Social justice must come back. You can't fly in the trash millions of people to get a few riches. That's my opinion. And I think we may be a small country, but it's not a bad start that government has made, hitting corruption in its medulla. Some people have put it, whether they want it or not, hand to giggle the extreme right movements. And the notion was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Georgiadis from the Centro Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Madam President. "The donkey said the flying head." The people who worship the swastika came here to preach and equate the Greek MPs who in religion are Muslims and to tell us that they are themselves or are better than us when we have seen the greetings and photographs they have made. We owe nothing, and we have a right to talk. No loans, no loans, nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u84	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u85	I don't know what this has to do with it, Mr. Constantinople, it has an absolute relationship, because everyone can say what they want. We're clean, we don't owe anyone. Others owe and will have to account. And that is why we are against the old-fashioned system and we want there to be real clearance in this country. And because we are of the essence and not of communication - because all that's been done in here also has a number of reasons - I'm waiting for answers. We have two boys who are currently detained in a cell in Turkey and we have not received a reply on what will happen to their future and fate. I don't know if we're gonna get to the point where we're going to ask for an exchange, because many people say they've got them and they're keeping them to ask us for an exchange of eight. I don't know if we have to ask for an exchange. For the sake of Macedonia, we hear nothing. You're all ready to give it up, but we're not listening to anything. And that is why we, as a Union of Centres, have called for the convening of the President of the Republic of political leaders to be convened, to be informed of the national issues, which are at the moment major, and we do not receive any information, despite what we see on television. And at the moment I did not go up, as the President said, on the applause, as he went to the conference of the Change Movement and all he accepted was insulting, because he said truths. But truths hurt, ladies and gentlemen. They all left the Golden Dawn. They came, made their sermon, and they left, they left. He said the gentleman from Golden Dawn is tomorrow and that all of us here are here yesterday. I have to tell them it's the other day and the very old one, forty years ago. And if we want to say who's tomorrow, tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, it's the Central Association. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Danellis from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately post-military enthusiasm has not allowed us to defend our democracy in constitutional terms against its declared enemies, the deniers of parliamentaryism. In the generalized climate of upheaval, we once again considered that the Greek society is inseparable from the "violet" of neonazism, that with the suffering that the junta caused, with the culmination of course the national amputation that followed the betrayal in Cyprus, the ears of the Greek citizens would be tightly closed to neo-fascism. That is why the disgusted courage - because this is not the case, the self-evident part of the Greek people - of the apologies of the betrayal of Cyprus - has been doing so today in this Chamber as well, unfortunately, for this disguised courage to question the patriotism and integrity of any Greek MP and one more of the MPs with the morality and characteristics of Mustafa Mustafa, who has been denouncing the Greek Parliament since the 1990s. [[Applause]] Turning back to the 'romanism' that we showed, no wonder we did not do what the Spanish and Portuguese did, losing the opportunity of constitutional prediction in 1975, a ban on the operation of a party hosting parliamentaryism. Unfortunately, Greek citizens have sent to the temple of democracy representatives of the neonazi organization, which very quickly proved to be a criminal organisation. And how could they, after all, be different? I have said many times that after the Golden Dawn era it is very different from the before Golden Dawn era for Parliament. The regulatory forecasts for the proper functioning of Parliament are not enough. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the Golden Dawn is not one of us and we must understand it. It is not one of us, so it does not raise compensation for them, my dear colleague, Mr Georgioda. [[Applause]] Anything about Golden Dawn is a matter of another order. And, obviously, our top obligation is to protect democracy and parliamentaryism. Democracy can be merciful and tolerable, but without mercy for those who undermine, for those who are sworn negatives of democracy and parliamentaryism. We must, Mr President of the House, get rid of the strictness of the Rules of Procedure in these cases, but without the illusion of their cohesion. Because we know very well that stunning with their vulgar challenges feeds them. That is why not only will they stop these challenges, but they will escalate them. We must modernise the operating regulation by strengthening it with stricter measures, Mr President. The poisonous intolerance that is heard in the temple of democracy - and it sounds undisturbed - unfortunately inspires and disintegrates their fans and idols, even within the house of God, God of love. And it is not only that Ambrosios Lenis constantly opposes the shape and role of the hierarch of the religion of love, emphatically reproaching their hate sermons, but also that representatives of justice do not see the atrocious violation of anti-racist law. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the parties to the constitutional arch have to be consistent, without asterisks, without 'yes, but', without settling, reluctant and effective to deal with the misery of the representatives of the criminal extreme right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u88	Madam President, could you also give us the floor for two minutes to the Independent Members?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u89	It is not on this particular agenda, Mr Koukoutsi. The President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, it was and is very important that this debate is being held in the Greek Parliament. Those who considered it useless or thought it could cause problems and divisive dilemmas are making too much mistake because some have escaped. And I do not mean the leadership of the Golden Dawn, for which this political debate is taking place. Some people have escaped throughout Europe and have in recent years developed the revised historical schools, which have remarkably led to the glorification of martyrs - and heroes - of Nazi struggles. Some people have escaped to us as well because they have shared texts to the Greek MPs today from representatives of palmacedonian organisations in the world, which we had heard orally days ago, and we had not given them any importance. They have now shared with each Member and neither too much nor too much nor too much do we have been called for last treason. They say that the penalty is death or life, if you dare to vote for the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Greek Government, if and whenever the conditions come and mature, the proposal for a complex name in the Greek Parliament will come. Some have escaped and we are neither neutral nor bureaucrats who are going through here, to finish the current legislative work and the current problems and to do that we are not listening or that we do not know what is happening around us - around. Let me tell you that these are split sermons. I would also like to tell you the very small history on the basis of which this debate has finally taken place. It would not happen, because there is also a kind of underprivileged political malnutrition among us, and in this respect others really have to do less or more self-criticism and we are going through a number of things as if nothing were happening. At the previous meeting, the representative of the Golden Dawn had said of 'fucking Turks'. He said it three times from here, so, air-father. Where are we? How do we talk like that? What do we create? What are the problems in the country's international relations, too, but not just? So I'm saying, what is it now? At a meeting first - and I am quite clear, I am making a political assessment - there was absolutely a strategy of tension around this issue to exploit a few, but very extreme, voices at the two major rallys that took place in our country. I'm very clear. There was a strategy that one member of the Golden Dawn came, and neither much nor much did he say directly, apart from all others: "Look, when we come to things, you will go to camps to break stones" etc. It's in the Minutes of the House. Didn't we get it? Didn't we understand anything? I didn't hear it in any news releases, beating on it. Immediately afterwards - I am talking about an escalation, which no one has the right to remain silent about and to do what he does not understand - at the critical meeting of the Committee on Defence, these creepy Turkish agents, spies, say, etc. And immediately afterwards, when the discussion took place at the level of party leaders and one would expect - and then I was first placed - the Chief of the Golden Dawn to clarify these issues from this Step, they went out and said right to all other Members that you, fellow Greek citizens, these MPs - in this case four times, because for decades they have been various members of the Muslim religion - have been here to state which country they have, what religion they have, what religion they have, what religion they have, what they believe. And I went out and answered - see the Minutes of this House - that with these flags here, with the electoral law, with the Constitution, with the political laws, everything, with how the MPs are elected, and since we all know the whole institutional grid from which we come here as representatives of the people and the nation according to the article, it is at least a challenge for any Greek MP here to call on what Mr Michaeliakos was asking. So, what happened now to see how the make news process goes next door. The next day, a couple of friendly approaching gentlemen said that the President of the Parliament said that anyone can have any home and any nation he wants and any flag he has to believe, etc. Some others have gone further, now for a week. Until a Vice-President of Parliament, without reading the Minutes, said that I certainly disagree with Mr. Voutsi that anyone can have any home wants in here, say, etc. That's where we got there. That's where we got there. Because, now, we don't have speeches, we don't bring arguments, we deal with linelines, tweets and those from the media overlap us with prices, we don't read anything. We are condemning it in any way. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So this has happened, and then the procedure that the President told you was followed in detail. And we come here today and say we honor the hero Papameloliou in return, so what? Cyprus's file from here left by decision of this House. It is located in Cyprus and from July onwards, the first three volumes will come out of the thirty-two public, each now, collectives, scientists, or ordinary man, after the end of this year will be able to draw its conclusions. However, there was neither a need to open what we have seen in the Cyprus Folder nor to be made public in the day after tomorrow, to say and reconstitute collective memory, because there is a brutal conservative, reactionary, extreme right-wing revision of the grave responsibilities of the junta regime, whose worshipers and representatives are the gentlemen of the Golden Dawn in the great tragedy of Cyprus. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In the great tragedy of Cyprus, in the tragedy that Papamelou lived as commander, those two nights about how the signals went and left, about how Noratlas fell, because the signal had already come two hours before Cyprus, but had never reached him, so that our people and others could not shoot. They will all read them and understand them, and with which planes they arrived there then, after how many changes were made by the political planes at last in military planes, to get the degrees down, and after how long and what has happened with our submarines, not to say clearly the most obvious, i.e. the coup which was organized against Macarou and opened doors, windows in divisions, civils in Cyprus and in full use on Turkey's side of plans that they had prepared, to make the invasion of Cyprus. And they come today and they talk to us about these things. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this House, which is also called 'democracy', when tours are being made here, and so forth, and because it is the Greek Constitution - and, in my opinion, the Greek Constitution is correct - gives the opportunity to present, to intervene and to function equally on an equal footing with the denies of democracy, in every case, they have said so and have said so in all cases. But let me tell you that it is not possible for the House to be in a hostage, it is not possible for the House to be silent, it is not possible to make setbacks, it is not possible to give an alibi, it is not possible to grant immunity to this biased, miserable and invasive and racist speech within the House itself. It is not possible and we cannot tolerate it and that is what it is all about. That is why I said at the Conference of Presidents that this is a very profound political debate that we are having. It's not about water. It is clear that what has been said - and indeed through a strategy of tension over the last three weeks - is intended. They are trying to sprinkle a division, soaring hatred, sowing civil conflicts, and that cannot be allowed to happen. It is clear, then, that all Greek Muslim religion MPs - and some of them have been elected by citizens in Thrace - all Greeks represented are equal citizens. And huge efforts were made from this wing in the early 1990s, in order to overcome truly terrible obstacles which had been put in place to make them understood as equal Greek citizens, hundreds of thousands of citizens who are and have a Muslim religion. Not all of these are just equal to us, not just honoured, not only are they at the forefront of even the parliamentary committees that go to all the international fora and represent the House, but they must have a clear political and moral support from all of the Greek MPs, so that they do not fall back and forth - whether they are in Australia or Austria, which has been heard before, or are in these headquarters - again in this Chamber to speak of spies and agents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, a vote will be taken on this point by a lifting or raising, in accordance with Rule 71(2) in conjunction with Rule 24(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. We have two different cases. On the first case, Mr Ilias Kashiri: I would remind you that this case concerns only Mr Cassidiari for his anti-parliamentary behaviour at the meeting of the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs on Wednesday 17-1-2018. I would ask those who accept the President's proposal for a reproach against Parliament to rise. [[The vote will take place on Wednesday at 11.30 a.m.]] Obviously, the majority has risen, not to say everyone. He's a colleague from the Golden Dawn who didn't rise. The President's proposal is therefore almost unanimous. On the second case of the President of the People's Association Parliamentary Group, Mr Nikolaos Michalliakos and Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou and Mr Ilia Kashiri: I would ask those who accept the President's proposal for a reproach against Parliament to rise. Evidently most of the Members present were raised. The President's proposal is therefore almost unanimous. Following Parliament's decision and in accordance with Article 8(1)(a) of the Code of Conduct of Members of the Greek Parliament, in conjunction with Rule 80(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure, the first case of a quarter of the monthly compensation of MP Ilia Kasidiari and the second case of a quarter of the monthly compensation of the President of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, Mr Nikolaos Michaliokos and the MPs Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou and Ilia Kasiaris is automatically required. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour to announce to the House that the Finance and Foreign Ministers, as well as the Secretary of State for Finance, tabled a draft law on 16-3-2018: "Constitution of the Agreement between the Competent Authority of the Hellenic Republic and the United States of America on the Exchange of State Reports and Implementing Provisions". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] The Minister of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, the Minister of Home Affairs, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Administrative Reconstruction, Deputy Ministers of Interior, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, and the Deputy Minister of Finance have today tabled 19-3-2018 draft law: “Incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2015/1794 and other provisions”. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the second theme of today's special agenda, namely: Part II) Applications for waiver of immunity of Members: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity of Members of Parliament, etc. Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou and Konstantinos Barbarousi. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report on 7-3-2018, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed the lifting of the immunity of Anna - Asmakopoulou. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report on 7-3-2018, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed the waiver of Mr Constantine Barbarousi's immunity. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide on an increase in the hand or on the request of the Public Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of 23 March 2005, we have agreed on applications for waiver of immunity that the House should decide by roll-call vote. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents, at its meeting on 7 March 2018, the electronic roll-call system will be activated for the first time. So since the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is closed, we shall proceed to a roll-call electronic vote, as I will describe to you. The first case concerns Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou. The second case concerns Mr Constantine Barbarousis. Is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u93	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u94	Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the case concerns the period during which I was a municipal councillor in the Municipality of Ioannistes. And it concerns a unanimous decision of the Management Board of the Ioannina Organisation on the payment of the payroll of additional staff employed in the CAP. On the basis of the principle of equal treatment, I have asked the committee, and I ask this House today, for my immunity to be lifted, because I do not want there to be any shadow around the time I have been a municipal consultant. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Please also note in the minutes that I am informed that there is a recommendation from the Prosecutor of Ioannina to acquit all the board of directors. Thank you very much and ask for the lift.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mrs Asmakopoulou. The second request, is there any colleague asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u97	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u98	Here, Mr. Barbaroussi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u99	As I have said to all the immunity waivers that have taken place, how much I am interested in whether or not to waive immunity. In fact, we have never had immunity and we do not want to have immunity. As a movement we are against any immunity there is for politicians. We say: everyone equals the law, which, of course, is not the case. Because if some serious case-file comes for you, most of you are behind your immunity. I said that we have no immunity, and I want to say that so that the Greek people know that. When the incident with the fight took place in the next village, suddenly, after a while, the square of my village was filled with cameras and journalists.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u100	Please, be quiet. This process has one gravity when someone is in a pretext. And I mean it. Please. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u101	So as soon as it was dark, they came to the village over forty police cars and more than a hundred police officers. They blushed my house over fifty police officers with an attorney, so that my children would be terrified, three, five and six years respectively. We have this immunity and we have won it very hard. It's clear that what they wanted to achieve, except to terrorize my family, was to walk around my blind father, because he's also a defendant. And they say he was driving my car as well. Yeah, well, Greek people. My father, who's 100% blind, was driving! I'm the only blind man I've ever seen driving is Al Pacino at the "Woman Scent" and some Roma who get some "monkey" allowances! So it's clear they wanted to terrorize my father and other relatives. And they should be surrounded by iron buckets like preys, and in short, they should set up another show, like the one Samaras had set up. Show, though, I won't let anyone make me. Here I have the medical report from the clinic that talks about simple adolescences, that he went alone to the doctor, and then he just signed up and left alone again. This was termed after almost two years as a severely intended physical damage and a felony, for that was how it was convenient for some. Here's the forensics report from the clinic on the Minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u102	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, seventy-five students and students and five educational sessions from the 3rd High School of Ierapetra of Crete. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the roll-call vote will take place here. I have to say to you that it is all set in such a way that not only the press representatives, the parliamentary authors, are able to obtain the results of each electronic vote immediately, but also to record for each single vote the individual vote, be posted and subject to control. There is access by everyone to see how many and who have voted and what has been voted on. Either way, let me tell you that all the votes in this House are open, that is, they are nominal, except those relating to the setting up of pre-examination committees. And the vote on the Bureau is now open, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So all the votes will now be held with this system. In fact, especially for the bills that have too many articles and we understand the great difficulty there have been, the electronic platforms and programming, which we will see will facilitate our work very much, but will also increase the interest of those who are following the process. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened. We're going through the process. Please very much for your attention. We pass our card on the bottom right side of the screen to identify the system and press "CONTIN", when the corresponding icon is activated. The system recognizes us, no matter where we sit. The name of the Member and the act on which the waiver of immunity is sought, as well as the proposal from the Committee on Parliamentary Ethics, is shown on the screen. The person who votes in favour of the waiver of immunity declares his preference by choosing "NEI", that is to say, "NEI" to the request of the prosecutor requesting the waiver of immunity. The person who votes against the waiver of immunity declares his preference by choosing 'OH', that is to say, 'OH' to the request of the prosecutor requesting the waiver of immunity. The person who votes for "PARS" states his preference by choosing "PARS", that is, the "PRN". Once we have voted, we choose "OLACH" and then choose "NAH" to register and finalize our vote or "OH" to return and control it or to review it. As a final vote the system enters the last finalised vote. As you have seen, the possibility of a mistake has been predicted. Therefore, as long as the system remains open, the Member has the right to correct his vote by repeating the above procedure. There will no longer be a first and second catalogue reading. The system will be open for a period of five or even eight minutes, if some colleagues are somewhere and are coming right now or are in their office. It is the substitution of the system which has become the second reading of the catalogue. As far as 90% is concerned, we will be ready from the first half of a minute, but it will be open eight minutes so that a colleague can come. I would like to inform the Bureau that letters or faxes have been received by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, to which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. I would ask that the first vote be taken. [[VOCATIONAL TRAINING]] The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u103	The first vote shall be declared adjourned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the first roll-call vote on Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou's request for immunity. A total of 159 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 151 Members voted. On the question of immunity, 7 Members voted against the motion for a resolution, i.e. 'NOVO'. Vote for a roll-call vote 1 Member, in accordance with the following roll-call vote:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u105	The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, we must applaud the Members' technicians for the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much to Mrs Canelley, who reminds us of the slightest and self-evidentness, to applaud the House's Technical Service, which has done an excellent job. [[Applause]] I would ask that the electronic system be opened to start the second vote. The same procedure we are voting on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the second roll-call vote on the request for waiver of immunity from Mr Constantine Barbarousi. A total of 156 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAI', 156 Members voted. On the other hand, there is a need to ensure that the Community's external relations with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet "PARTS" voted no one, in accordance with the following roll-call protocol.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u109	The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, the procedure on applications for waiver of immunity has been completed here. We're interrupting for a while for Mr. Lambroulis to come to the Chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Today, three topical questions will be discussed. We begin with the sixth question under number 1270/7-3-2018 in the first cycle of the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens of Potamio Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "The Ministry of Tourism " catalyses" on the substance of the EOT". The Minister of Tourism will answer Mr. Elena Koudoura. Here, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u111	Minister, with the new establishment plan of your Ministry - which I think has been done without consultation, if that is not the case, if I am wrong to tell me, I have no reason to accept your answer, that is my information - it is investing in overcrowding the Ministry - in my opinion - of the Greek Tourism Organization but, ultimately, of the regions of the country. You know very well that the role of the Ministry of Tourism since its establishment is primarily staffed, with its main responsibility for the preparation of draft laws and initiatives, obviously in cooperation with and with the relevant ministries, towards strengthening the competitiveness of Greek tourism. In view of the particular nature of the Ministry, too many times in the past - I do not question it - the competences of the Ministry and of the Greek Tourism Organization have been involved, but until now the dismantling of the EOT by taking over the basic responsibilities of the Greek Tourism Organisation by the Ministry had never been attempted on the substance. I think that the current leadership of the Ministry demonstrates an obsession in order for it to exercise its own competence over the substance of the country's marketing, which I believe is causing problems and - if you like - as far as I know, anywhere in Europe there is no such competence in the respective ministry. Most of the aspects of a country's marketing are exercised by organisations. I have the impression that this initiative by the Ministry of Tourism also creates a legal mess, that is to say, a special section must be set up in the Ministry of Tourism, in order to assume the responsibilities that are removed from the Greek Tourism Organization, which, based on the information I have investigated, means more officials, more budget costs and all the related costs. So I ask you. What is the aim of this legislative text and what is the benefit for tourism in the country? If it succeeds, you will have the happy answer that your ambition has been accomplished. If this story doesn't go well, who's gonna apologize for it? Obviously it does not matter whether the Minister or the Minister say that he made a mistaken assessment. It's important to see if all this effort can end somewhere. The second element that my question describes is: In what logic can we go to the idea that someone decides and another performs? Will the Ministry decide but will the EOT execute and execute the EOT on the decisions of the Ministry that he has not processed them? What will be the qualifications of the officials who will be invited to carry out this programming at the Ministry? Will they be equivalent to the officials who have experienced the Greek Tourism Organization, who have, respectively, all the previous periods that have been able to do so? First of all, I would like you to reply to me and why the Ministry of Tourism was involved in the perception of its intervention in the programmes of the regions and of the Ottawa. Finally, is it true that the Presidential Decree has been offended to the Council of State, why does it amend a law without such authorisation? These are my questions, Minister, and with great interest I will hear your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. But I would like to tell you that the text of the question and the information you refer to is inaccurate and does not reflect reality. I don't know where you got that information from. I shall reply to you on the text and, in part, reply to the questions. The role of the Ministry, as you quite rightly said, is to legislate, to monitor, to ensure the proper functioning of the tourist market and to design national and regional tourism policy. The establishment plans of the Ministries as far as I know are concerned are not subject to public consultation. Nevertheless, our organizational chart at the Ministry of Tourism was prepared by a working group, which involved the heads of all addresses and departments, who presented their suggestions for improving the structures of the organic units, with the aim of correcting the gaps and problems of the past. The conclusions of the working party of the service actors were reflected in the structure reassessment report on which the new organization of the Ministry was based. Small changes focused on removing malfunctions and covering the gaps and deficiencies of the previous establishment plan. I can tell you that we are very proud to say that the new organizational chart was a product of consensual procedure of the Ministry's own officials. The role of the Ministry of Tourism is clear and there is no ambiguity. The Department of Strategic Planning based on the directions of the political leadership draws up national and regional tourism policy and draws up a long-term strategic marketing plan for Greek tourism, as it has done over the years, based on data collected from the other services of the Ministry, as well as the EOT for tourism development by geographical area, tourism product and market - aim. The EOT is a supervised body and is our national body with an exclusive role in the promotion and promotion of Greece, which has to develop on the basis of the competences of the programme of communication and marketing activities, implementing the strategic guidelines and objectives of the national and regional tourism policy established by the Ministry of Tourism. This has always been the case, and this is still happening. In simple terms for those who do not know what the difference between the strategic marketing plan and the communication and marketing programme is - there is a confusion - I say this to you. The Ministry of Tourism draws up national tourism policy and strategic marketing planning, which aims to see where we are today in international competition, what our goals are, how we will achieve them strategically, so that we can promote the Greek tourism product more effectively on the world market. It illustrates the needs and opportunities that Greek tourism can take advantage of and the development objectives set out in the strategic planning of national tourism policy, in our case the extension of the period, the promotion of new destinations, thematic products, the opening of new markets etc. The EOT, on the other hand, is responsible for how these objectives will be achieved in practice, about the tourism products we are developing, with what actions, what actions, what tools, in each region of Greece and in the foreign markets we are focusing on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm gonna need two minutes. Of course the EOT is working on its communication program, the marketing plan itself, so that we can achieve our goals of competitiveness and tourism development. This is why in the new EOT organisational programme, which was also the result of an EOT working group involving the heads of directors of directors and employees, all of whom participate in the strengthening and strengthening of the organisation, was set up in the new Directorate-General for Organisation and Promotion - to date, the Directorate-General for Promotion - Special Section for the Planning and Coordination of Tourism. This new section aims to design, develop and coordinate the communication programme of the country's tourist promotion domestically and internationally. To conclude, with the Ministry of Tourism and the new establishment plan there is no legal mess. You have been misinformed that parallel structures are being set up, as you say in your question. You obviously don't know the organizational chart of the Ministry. There is no overlap between the regional services in relation to the EOT, because the operational role of the regional services of the Ministry, which is clearly reflected in the Ministry's establishment plan, includes cooperation with the regions, municipalities, local bodies and chambers, in terms of licensing, control, sanctions for tourist businesses in their area of competence with a view to the orderly functioning of the market. The PPPs neither acquired more competence nor had communication and marketing programmes. Unlike the new establishment of the EOT, a new address is being created at the EOT, the Internal-External-External-Service Services Directorate, which strengthens the organisation and strengthens its role, so that the offices of the EOT, which are created, have the coordinating role in the thirteen regions of the country with the offices of the EOT, with the central agency of the EOT and with any other competent body, in order to support the implementation of the single national and regional tourism policy and, of course, the promotion and promotion of the single tourism identity in Greece and abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u114	Madam Secretary, you have your second language. Let's not forget that. You have time and then to develop your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u115	All right, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u116	Here, Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u117	Madam Minister, I know you're a noble man. That is why I oppose the aggression - I would not say a hint - an observation you made twice about where I came from. I do like all Members of Parliament when they exercise their sacred obligation of parliamentary control and try to formulate the facts and arguments of their question, so that you may be given the opportunity to reply so that we can all be informed here. There's no aggression of aggression. We're trying to see if some things happen as they should happen, or if mistakes have been made or mistakes are to be made, to correct - if possible - someone. I also heard that public consultation could not be held - among the directors of the Ministry. I guess you wouldn't think - or if you thought, I didn't understand - to ask EOT managers whether or not they agreed in such a direction. You'll tell me you don't need it, because you're Minister and you decide. But it's not like that. If we are looking to find an equal place to form policies, all stakeholders and those involved in the process of implementing some policies are also directly involved in identifying their own arguments. Minister, the EOT since its establishment was designed to operate as a flexible and powerful element in line with the trends and rates of the international tourism market, while successfully exercising tourist diplomacy. No one doubts that. And it is not now, but it has been since his establishment. Through diplomacy, marketing projects are carried out in a multi-level program around the world, as well as through the grid of international relations which has developed and developed with other countries for decades successfully the whole of the project. In the midst of a decade - I think you know, I do not have to tell you - and in the context of transfusions of action areas to the Ministry, all of its developmental responsibilities have been removed from EOT, as well as the control of hotels and other accommodations, the historical technical services of the EOT, development, investments, quality control and many other responsibilities, including international tourist relations. Since 2014, the main mission and responsibilities of the EOT have come to be the promotion of the country, and beyond that, none. If this process of the EOT's presence and action is brought to an end, I wonder, frankly, what its role from now on is being destroyed. If you consider that the ministry's role is developed by taking on other responsibilities from the Ministry, you may be right in the way you deal with things. In the form of an organizational plan, however, the Ministry's role as a institution for the development of tourism policy emerges. Whilst priority is given to marketing and communication from newly created organic units and executives, who unfortunately have no experience in this sensitive subject, in my opinion and all my arguments, in fact already all the most elementary marketing activities - present in all the exhibitions where they are done without selection criteria and others - are conducted by the Minister itself and by her very close environment. I'm not talking to you. I am referring to what will emerge from the establishment plan. Tomorrow it won't be you. There is no aggression against your presence, Minister. I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. I am trying to understand if, with the new organizational chart, the Ministry is leaving as much as it can, the function of the Greek Tourism Organization, on which for decades the country has drawn up its tourism policy and I think it is not without success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u118	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u119	Mr Colleague, as you can see, I just tried to answer your question, which, unfortunately, has been inaccurate as a whole. The organizational chart of the Ministry of Tourism has not changed in anything, as far as the powers it had and continues to have. The EOT has also strengthened its role and its exclusive competence to design and draw up communication and marketing programmes. Nothing's changed. That's why I told you that if you saw the organogram, if you read it, if you did have the information, you would see that nothing has changed at all. The Ministry decides the strategy and the EOT implements this strategy with its communication programmes. Now, if you're referring to the fact that the EOT no longer has control of the market, I have to tell you that since '99, the EOT's fortune and 2001 has been to the EBRD. The EOT no longer has any property to exploit or exploit. Also, when the Ministry of Tourism was created, the control went through the Ministry, because the Ministry must legislate, control and develop a strategy. So the EOT has not been weakened - so I say that it is wrong your information - the EOT has acquired the most important role, in our humble view, to be the national promotion and promotion body, which is the most possible weapon for the success of Greek tourism today. For the last three years, I will remind you that we have incredible historical tourist sizes in arrivals and revenues. EOT has a very dynamic presence around the world, exhibitions, social media. We did two hundred and fifty fam trips, when EOT in the past did thirty and forty. We have come to have thirty million tourists and to overcome historical revenues. The EOT exercises precisely the responsibilities for which its establishment plan gives it. In other words, it has the dynamic visibility and promotion of Greece, which is the most important element, so that our tourism can go forward. The strategy has always been a strategy for national tourism policy and has given it the direction. The EOT is implementing the programs so that it can bring the results that our country wants and has achieved the best. He has not been given responsibility and has barely been added to the new establishment plan which is to be posted directly, we have added an additional address, we have added many organic positions, because the EOT was undersubordinated. I must remind you - because it is very important - that in the past the previous governments tried to weaken him and abolish him, they put at the disposal of ninety-eight employees of the agency. We committed ourselves as government and restored them and at the same time committed ourselves to strengthening him to the very important role of global promotion and promotion of our country, because our aim is to have three hundred and sixty-five days a year in tourism and that is what we have done. So the establishment plan of the Ministry was and remained in its own responsibilities, that is, in the political direction, the strategy and national tourism policy to give directions, and the EOT on its part with the strengthening that we give it, makes the global projection, with communication and marketing programmes. I can't hide it from you that he's doing it very well. We won all the awards we have gone, we got the first, the second prize at our little spot created by EOT "three hundreds of sixty-five days a year". We win all the awards in the exhibitions for the aesthetics of the kiosks and we have multiple advertising, in the way we have chosen in collaboration with the Ministry that makes the tourism policy with the EOT that performs it, to have multiple advertising worldwide. That's why we have these incredible successes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u120	Madam Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u121	I would like to close, therefore, by saying that the two organograms have no overlap. Most importantly, the EOT must be very proud of the strength we have given it, since it is also strengthened with organic positions and with more addresses and with the very important work of projecting and promoting Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Minister. Before we move on to the next two topical questions, I would like to inform the House of these questions which are not to be discussed, quickly: Won't it be debated due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad, the fourth with number 1301/12-3-2018, the second time question from the MP Drama of the Democratic Assent of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Kefalidou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Killals of Nikiforos Dramas and their service: Lie in the Lies?" Nor will the following topical questions be discussed as a result of an impediment by the competent ministers: The first under number 1314/13-2018, the first question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: “Suspension of operation of the Transport Supply Training Centre as a Youth Training Centre”. Similarly, due to an impediment from the Minister of Finance, they will not be discussed: The second, with number 1269/6-3-2018, timely question of the first cycle of the MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “The choice of his political existence as a judge of his budget.” The fourth under number 1309/13-3-2018 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To be paid to the former employees of ATE everything that is due to them". The fifth under number 1310/13-2018 topical question for the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘What is the exact balance of the bank account of Law 128/1975?’ The second question by number 1299/12-2018, the second question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseyas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The National Settlement". The third, with number 130/12-3-2018, topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "What the fate of the reserves of "O.L.I.TH". S.A.’, amounting to EUR 65,108.327,16, after the transfer of the majority of the shares to private individuals.’; Finally, they will not be discussed because of an impediment by the Deputy Health Minister, Paul Pavlakis, because of a workload: The first question under number 3195/5-2-2018 question of the petitions by the Deputy Drama of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The establishment of the General Hospital of Drama with anesthetics and health centres of the prefecture with medical staff". The fifth under number 1303/13-3-2018 topical question by the Member of Parliament for the Flash of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Bargiotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Talk for thousands of patients the placing of medicines from the pharmacy of the EEA". For all these topical questions which will not be discussed, nine the number, we have received a letter of information from the General Secretariat of the Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u124	Mr Kyriazides, you have obviously asked for the floor on the question that will not be discussed. Please, Mr. Cryazides, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. You can call Mr. Polakis. Mr. Paulakis is now in the café of the House. I understand - and that is exactly what I want to point out - that the question was tabled at the beginning of the year and turned into a timely question, because I expect three months for an answer, when the Ministry of Health and the Minister in question had committed himself to the fact that by the end of this year this austere prefecture will be strengthened with the possibility of survival of specific incidents, emergencies, and indeed surgery, because the General Hospital of Drama has an anaesthetic. Surgeries, Mr President, have been abolished. You realize that from the Lower Neuroscope, to move someone into border counties, it takes an hour and a half. This depreciation cannot continue, the government's uninterest in the matter of an inaccurate prefecture. So are the other health centres, Mr President. It is regrettable that, while the Government and the Minister concerned were committed that for the more than three thousand cancer patients they would be created by the end of the year and a section for chemos, they are forced to move from Alexandroupolis to Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u126	Good. All right, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, this is the case with the Parallel Health Centre and the Immigration Pre-Accession Centre, which have not even one ambulance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u128	Okay. Don't develop the whole question now. There's no Minister to answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u129	But it's abandoned. You have to do something. It is not possible for the ministers not to come!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u130	I'm sorry, Mr. Cryazides, to get in touch with. Are you currently asking for my own intervention, so that the Minister can come to discuss the timely question, since he has declared himself a coma? I understand your indignation - to use this word, you did not say it - and like other Members who do not respond to a series of ministers in good time - to put it this way - in the timely questions they put forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u131	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u132	Let me tell you! This has been done on several occasions, I say to you, the Conference of Presidents. The President of Parliament has taken up a series of speeches to the ministers and specific ministers who are stalling, and we know who they are, because we know the number of time-consuming questions that are pending. So, well, you might have it right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u133	But he's here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u134	Because, as a first point, you told me to look for him in this House's cubicle, I would tell you that it is not the President's job to look for any Minister, wherever he is, since, as I said before, the General Secretariat of the Government has informed us about this situation. I think that this is where we can close it, because your colleagues are waiting too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, thank you for your sensitivity and your reference. But we're talking about a social asset, health. It is not something that can be done, if you like, in a later year any discussion or pressure. In any case, because next week, to be redefined, this timely question will be redefined because of the "development" conference of SYRIZA in Thessaloniki, this Minister will not be present again. I stress it, in the hope that it will come. If he doesn't come back, I call him to Drama. It's two steps. We will not do what SYRIZA did when the Minister for Health of the New Democracy came, who has received insults and propagandas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u136	Mr Cryazides, but now finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u137	We're waiting for him to see the face close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u138	Good. Your opinion has been heard. We continue with the next timely question. The first question will be discussed under number 1315/13-2018, the second question from the Member of Parliament, Mr Christos Stagiras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Enlargement and completion of the procedure for the repayment of public debt to private individuals’. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. George Juliarakis. Mr Stavoura, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u139	Minister, you will agree - and I suppose - that the repayment of public debts to the private sector beyond its contribution to the improvement of the public finances and budgets of the general government, but also to the strengthening of the credibility of the public, is a key source of strengthening liquidity in the real economy. At the end of 2012, the then government created the institutional and operational framework for their gradual redemption, which applies exactly the same and applies exactly the same until today. The result was the government’s dues from around EUR 9.6 billion at the end of 2012, according to the current figures of the Ministry of Finance, to decrease in about two years by EUR 6 billion, substantially helping the economy to obtain a positive figure for the first time in 2014. Unfortunately, however, since January 2015, the situation has changed. The outstanding public debts again began to pull up, mainly as a result of the internal posting of payments declared by the current government. So, despite the fact that more than EUR 5 billion has been disbursed in instalments of the loan contract for their repayment, i.e. from the third memorandum, these debts remain high, currently exceeding EUR 3 billion. So, Minister, you ask: First, why are the government's outstanding debts still high, despite the additional loans and more and national resources available to repay them from the surpluses, when, in fact, according to the report from the last budget, 'their repayment is a key priority for the Ministry of Finance'? Which wasn't a priority, that is. Secondly, what is the value of the new debts - why, apparently, new debts have been created - over the last three years? Third: What is the schedule for their repayment within 2018? How many of them will be from borrowing resources and how many of them will be from last year's overcrowding of the citizens? Finally, when does the Ministry of Finance assess - but I would like a specific date - that the settlement of government debts will be completed, that is to say, the government debts due will be zero? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr. Stakoura. Mr. Juliarakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. I would agree with Mr Stavoura that the overdue public debt clearing programme is of particular importance also for the real economy, because it actually strengthens the liquidity of the private economy and economic activity, but also for the further consolidation of public finances. Where I shall disagree with Mr Stavoura is on the path of payment of due obligations. Let me mention a few figures. I will begin, first of all, by defining - for the better understanding of the definition by our listeners - the overdue obligations of the general government to third parties, i.e. entities outside the general government, to the outstanding obligations of the public to third parties for more than 90 days after the date of payment. After that definition, let me give a few figures. I will accept that in January 2015-August 2015, the public's outstanding liabilities increased and increased significantly, precisely because it was a period of high uncertainty. As of September 2015, however, until January 2018, these obligations have been significantly reduced. In September 2015, the outstanding obligations, in the way I defined them a moment ago, of the general government, were EUR 5.225,000. In December 2016, fifteen months later, they had fallen to 3,689,000 euros. In December 2017, last month, they were reduced to 2,537,000, and just today it was announced that in January 2018 they were further reduced to 2,443,400,000 euros. From September 2015 to the previous month, in January 2018, they have been reduced - we are talking about the net reduction of the delayed stock - by EUR 2,782,000, both from the deadline for the European Stability Mechanism and from own resources. However, the amount of time-limits remains significant at EUR 2.4 billion. The programme of the Ministry of Finance is the full repayment of the balance of EUR 2.4 billion by the end of the programme, until August 2018, which is absolutely feasible both through the use of cash, there are corresponding appropriations and through the strengthening of these appropriations from the European Stability Mechanism Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u142	Mr Stavura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u143	From your answer and from the additional information I have not had time to develop during my protagonist, I think some conclusions are drawn. First of all, the government's dues - and it is not just expenditure - are also outstanding tax reimbursements - exceed the EUR 3 billion today that we are talking about. Indeed, there has been a systematic attempt to reduce over the last few years, but essentially a large share of responsibility is borne by your Government, which increased them in the first half of 2015, as you said. That is, in short, where we were at the end of 2014. Second conclusion: The Government, because of its choice to maintain its internal payment posture and its inability to absorb the resources available, continues to create new dues. You know, we don't say that, and the European Commission's Compliance Report, which I present in the Minutes, states: [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In these time-limited debts we are talking about, and as many public debts are not recorded, they are highlighted by the European Commission and they are outstanding tax refunds even more and applications for retirement. In addition, as the latest European Commission Compliance Report very recently points out, a month ago, of the total loan allocations transferred for the repayment of outstanding debts in 2017 only half reached the final beneficiaries. The rest of the amount was either stuck in public bodies or did not reach entities. So, Minister, you have indeed received EUR 5 billion from lenders and the outstanding debts remain about where it was at the end of 2014. Third conclusion: due to the government's delay in the absorption of the programme's funding, the procedure for repayment of therrears has been differentiated to the most unfavourable for the country and its citizens. The State now has an obligation, which it did not have in the second Memorandum, as recorded for the first time after the second assessment, to contribute from its own resources to the repayment of outstanding debts. That was not in the second Memorandum. Last year the ratio in evaluation was one to two against the loan instalments and today in the latest assessment you closed it became even more unfavourable: 50: 50. In other words, 50% of the outstanding debts are paid by Greek taxpayers with the surpluses and 50% of the instalments of the loan. That was not in the second Memorandum. Last conclusion: I have to admit, although I have heard what you said, that it has been referred back to the left. First I remind you of the third memorandum, in August 2015, should their repayment be fully completed? At the end of 2016. That is what the texts you have signed say. Subsequently, on the basis of the additional memorandum, in June 2016, this date was transferred for when? For June 2017. And today on the basis of the draft budget report, there is a reference to a further reduction in just 2018, your budget, and today you have just committed that by summer, August, they will be fully repaid. I wish, Therefore, once again, the government's weakness, incompetence and inefficiency are confirmed. It is clear that the current government does not want, does not know and cannot put liquidity into the real economy. On the other hand - and I conclude, Mr President - this financially irrational government practice, the main axis of the New Democracy's economic proposal, is to strengthen liquidity in the real economy by making use of the available European resources, by implementing the Public Investment Programme, which has not been implemented over the last three years and has reached the lowest level of the last decade, by paying off public debts and by gradually normalising credit expansion through the banking system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Stakoura. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-eight students and students and six educational sessions from the High School of Ierissos Halkidikis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Deputy Minister of Finance, George Juliarakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to clarify that the Greek State's obligation to participate with its own resources in the payment of outstanding liabilities is a sign of public finance health. I do not understand why the Greek State, the Hellenic Republic, must borrow money to repay its obligations when it has own resources. And it has own resources, precisely because the financial management of the years 2016-2017 was very effective. So I do not see it as a sign of failure, as the opposite, as a sign of good implementation of the budgets of the previous two years. And to be precise, the cash reserves of the Greek State were never at the healthy levels that are in the last year. A second comment on your remark, Mr Stakoura, that it was the government's choice to stop payment. There is a contradiction here. The contradiction is as follows: Internal posture of payments with overdue production aggravates the financial effect. It makes it worse. It doesn't improve. We note, however, that both the financial result of 2016 and the outcome of 2017, as verified in two months by EUROSTAT, was not only good, it was much better than the target that had been set, resulting in a faster restoration of the credibility of public finances than to creditors and to international markets, the faster improvement of the country's credit rating, the faster de-escalation of borrowing costs. There is therefore no strategic internal payment stop, because if it were, it would deteriorate, it would not improve the result. I recognise, however, that the positive sign in front of the size of the time is a problem that needs to be solved. I shall therefore repeat two figures: in September 2018 the balance of the late general government exceeded 5 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u146	In 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u147	In 2015, September 2015 - apologies - at the beginning of the third programme was more than 5 billion. Two months ago, in January 2018, the latest figures show that they are under 2.5 billion. Change in the right direction is important. I also commit here that the remainder of the delays will have been fully repaid, that is, zeroed by the end of the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u148	We continue with the latest timely question for today, the third with number 1297-12-2018, the first time in the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Papapas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Approval of expenditure of EUR 23,170.067 as compensation for the Bank of Greece S.A.". Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u149	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his kindness to come and answer my current question and that honour to other colleagues. I repeat the question, Mr President. It is about authorising expenditure of EUR 23,170,067 as compensation for the Bank of Greece S.A. by number 13/980 of your 20-2-2018 decision, Mr.Huliarakis, approved the expenditure - listen to the amount - is a lot of money - of 23,170,000, as compensation to the Bank of Greece S.A., having as your legal basis an earlier decision of 5 August 2016 and the new contract published in the Official Journal of the Government, published in FEK 151A of 10-8-2016. By this contract, the State is obliged to pay a percentage commission to the public limited company, i.e., for people to understand the Bank of Greece for all government financial operations, i.e. issue of securities, bonds, interest-rate notes, etc. The question is as follows and we will come back and then: The implementation of Greece's fiscal policy is meant to be outside the interests of the Bank of Greece S.A. Or is she intertwined with those interests? If the second is the case, that is, the Bank of Greece operates for the Greek state interests, and if, especially for the Bank of Greece, which is a private company and there are international speculators that drag the country into profitable for those borrowings and burdensome memoranda, why does the government offer money to a private bank and why should the public interest match the interest of the Bank of Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u150	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to say a few words about the purpose and functioning of the Bank of Greece, so that there are no misunderstandings. The first priority of the Bank of Greece, as a member of the Eurosystem, and each other of the Eurosystem's banks is the contribution to the monetary policy of their euro area in order to maintain stable inflation, close to the 2% rate. The second objective is to contribute to maintaining a sound domestic banking system. It's, if you like, the bank's supervisory role. And the third objective of the bank is to monitor the main macroeconomic sizes of the economy and its role as, if you like, an analyst of these sizes, so as to warn in time of possible risks and macroeconomic and financial risks. I think that all three roles are not only compatible, but are strengthening the public interest. So I have no doubt that there is no conflict of interest. To say a few things now more specifically on the issue of payment from the Greek state and the Ministry of Finance to the Bank of Greece for a number of services it offers. First of all, let me say we don't invent the wheel. The cooperation of the Greek State and the Ministry of Finance with the Bank of Greece has lasted for decades. For decades, that is to say, the Bank of Greece has been offering its cashiers to the Greek State, carrying out the costs that the Greek State has to bear in relation to a price that covers the provision of that service. Before 2016, this price was 0.05% of the annual total of the specific expenditure of the ordinary budget. After the contract that we signed with the Bank of Greece in 2016, this figure is reduced by 40% and goes to 0.033%. Similarly, for public investment, the previous contract provided a fee of 0.05% of the public investment programme and expenditure incurred by the Bank of Greece in this context. With the new convention, the rate is 0.03%, a reduction of more than 40%. In both cases, therefore, the new contract strengthens the interests of the Greek State. More specifically, to speak with numbers, for the years 2016-17 the Greek State's compensation to the bank for the services it offers - and if the Bank of Greece did not provide them, someone else would have offered them - cost 24 million and 23 million respectively. Let's see what happened before, that is, the years from 2011 to 2015. I repeat that in 2016 and 2017 it was 24 million and 23 million respectively. 2011 was 34 million, 2012 was 35 million, 2013 was 36 million, 2014 was 34 million and 2015 was 32 million euros respectively. The contract therefore did not increase, but significantly improved the costs of the service for the Greek State and thus is in the interest of the Greek State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Pappas has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Juliarakis, you are a technocrat who serves a Memorandum Government. And I see that you have a political reason. You're a propagandaist. There is one reason why it is called 'the tactic of half-truth'. You didn't tell us everything, unfortunately. You did not tell us that while many people believe that the Bank of Greece is a state-owned company, that is, it works for the state interests, it is in fact a completely private, multi-participating company that distributes profits to its shareholders. He's not paying any taxes. It's S.A., but it has absolute privileges over any other S.A. Greece. In short, the state has given the Bank of Greece an absolute tax exemption. Also, what the world knows, but no one dares to confess is that this bank belongs to foreign capitalist interests, foreign topics of foreign topics. In fact - and not now, but over many decades ago - it has been part of the Rothschild family. If you were called Yiannis and not Giorgos, then it would perfectly fit the "Yiannis and Yiannis drink", with Mr. Yiannis Stournaras. Your MP, Mr. Michelogannakis, had sent a letter to Mr. Stournara in May 2015 and, after saying the whole history and how it was established, with which FEK in 1927 the Bank of Greece, asked Mr. Stournaras who the Bank of Greece is serving and whether it operates as a cashier or a government trustee, or whether it belongs to private funds and hands. He says Mr.Michelonanakis: "Because it is sad, if not anti-national not to know the Bank of Greece's blog, please let me know adequately. Ioannis Micholonnakis, MP SYRIZA, 15 May 2015.’ The same question was raised in the Senate Hall, Mr Stournara, on a visit to the Greek Parliament, so that I would never get an answer. We're finally going to find out what's going on in the bank, which literally tramples the Greeks? To whom does this bank belong and what interests does it serve? That is now a rhetorical question. Because Mr Stournaras, too, - he who has very little memory, does not remember a number of things with his affairs - and the government, in essence, serves the same bosses. You are called left-wing, but in essence you are the best representatives of international capital.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u154	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. I am not going to respond to funny, arguments about the bank's ownership status and the alleged involvement of Rothschild there. I want to say two things, however, which I think are in reply to Mr Pappa's dentology. Firstly, the Greek State participates with a high percentage of the Bank of Greece's share capital, which does not mean that it does not have an obligation to pay for the services it buys. It does it exactly the same way that it buys electricity from PPC. And PPC participates, but the power consumption by the ministries and the General Government is paid. Secondly, since its participation in the bank's share capital, the Greek State wins and wins a lot. We mentioned before the amounts to be paid for the service properly paid by the Bank of Greece, i.e. EUR 24,000,000 and EUR 23,000, respectively, in 2016 and 2017. In the same years, in 2016 and 2017, the Greek State's revenues from the bank's activities - listen to why it matters - in 2016 amounted to 1.079.000,000 euros. We only paid EUR 24 million. These are the revenues of the ordinary budget. In 2017, when we paid EUR 23,000,000 for the service offered to us, the proceeds from the operation of the Bank of Greece amounted to EUR 928,000 - overwhelmingly in favour of the interests of the Greek State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-19-S1-commons.u157	With the consent of the House at 20.20 minutes, the sitting for the next Thursday, March 22, 2018, at 9.30 seconds, on the subject of the House: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
