ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Please beg the Secretary to announce the reports to the Department. [[They are announced to the Department by the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Anastasia Gara, MP Evros, the following:]] REFERENCE OF REFERENCES
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou, has informed us that three topical questions will be discussed today, and for several reasons there will be no further debate on three topical questions, namely: The fourth question under number 13/20-7-2018, first question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Kazan ready to explode the state of Skopje", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Defence Mr Panagiotis Kammenos. Grounds for: meeting with the Armed Forces' leadership to coordinate the provision of firearms assistance. The sixth Question No 1/12-7-2018, the first question of the Piraeus I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga" will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Toska. Cause: not discussed. Also, the third with No 12/19-7-2018 topical question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "DIAGORIS airport, Rhodes", will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The Ministry of Economy and Development is responsible. I have the honour to announce to the Department that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance “Prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing (incorporation of Directive 2015/849) and other provisions”. So we begin with the first with number 14/23-2018, the first question of the First Circuit of the Radical Left Coalition to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Congregations of school units in the Prefecture of Itonokarina, which cause reactions". The question will be answered by the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Gavroglou. Mrs. Triantafel, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I am speaking for the first time in the department after this unspeakable disaster. It's really a duty to express my most sincere condolences to the people who lost theirs. I think whatever we say is a little in the face of such a disaster. However, we have a duty and a duty to detect the causes and to give convincing answers and solutions so that this does not happen again. Minister, my question relates to mergers in the Aetolokarnania Prefecture. I must tell you that in most cases it is rational. Most cases concern very small schools, which unfortunately no longer have students. However, despite the fact that there are criteria now according to which mergers occur, there are reactions for three cases - particularly for the two - in Nafpaton, in Agrinio and in Vonica. I think you are aware of at least two of these three cases. In the case of Nafpaktos there are two stricken municipal schools. This means that they meet a merger criterion. There is a unanimous decision from the municipal council not to proceed with the merger. I move on in the case of Agrinio, where you know her, because you've been sent to documents. It's about the 9th and 19th. There was for one year a suspension of the merger. There were letters to you and the parents’ associations and the mayor himself. There are municipal councils and decisions from the municipal council, from the educational bodies, from the associations of parents who react to it. I must tell you that there was a positive recommendation, of course, by the director of primary education. However, when there were contacts with the regional director there was a negative recommendation. I have to tell you that in this school at the 9th School, for which the proposal is to merge, there is a special school. So I think we should be very careful about the implementation of the inclusion programme. We'll tell dentistry what that means. Very quickly, I would like to refer to Vonica, where we are talking about two very large schools, one and the second. They're close. But we're talking about over three hundred people. And there are decisions of the municipal councils, the school club, the parent and guardian associations. I must say here that there are huge building problems. I've been to these schools. Even now there's T.L.L. in school. Some attempts have been made - you will tell me what contacts you have with the municipal authority - so that the building problem can be solved. I repeat, here we have to respond convincingly, because time is going on. We must respond convincingly to whether or not these mergers are to be made. I think they should explain very well to those who recommend these mergers on which criteria they are recommended. I am also saying this because everyone has to take responsibility. As far as I'm concerned, they're wrong to the Minister. The Minister, of course, validates these suggestions or does not ratify them, must have a briefing by the Members who bring matters to the law, but in my view he must have information from the relevant persons. So when some responsibilities are taken over, and there are recommendations that these responsibilities should be raised. I therefore think that we should have a talk about these mergers, because I repeat that we are not choosing to do off-shore mergers - more than two thousand have been made in previous years - but we are choosing on criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Gabroglou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. In the past few days I have really expressed the embarrassment, silence and respect for the tragic situation in which our fellow citizens live. I want to announce that tomorrow in the affected areas there will be three schools open, the 1st Municipal Rafina, the Rafina PES and the 1st New Macris High School, where there will be teachers. Parents can go there for creative jobs, especially for conversations. In any case, there are three public schools that will be open from tomorrow. I must also welcome the contribution of the Teaching Federation of Greece, which will be there tomorrow, and our colleagues will be able to discuss with parents and children in these truly difficult and tragic conditions. Now, as far as the questions you have raised are concerned, there is a formal settlement element, there is also a substantial settlement element. Let's start with the formals. The typical thing is that it doesn't merge any high school, no high school and no PSA. Let us now come to the issue of primary schools. We have three pairs of primary schools. The first couple is the 2nd Primary School of Nafpaktos and the 7th Primary School of Nafpaktos. They are concentrated and the number of pupils has decreased. We think this should be merged. As you have rightly said, we have no confusion. This was the task of other governments and other governments. Mergers, and it is important to understand this, are made on a proposal from the Director of Education, first and foremost, if it is for primary and secondary school, if it is for high school and high school, it happens to process the regional director and comes to the Ministry. Therefore, the Ministry has suggestions from the relevant authorities who do not do so on personal criteria. There are ministerial decisions, there are subsequent laws. So, on the issue of Nafpaktos, and given that the number of students is reduced, we proceed to the merger. On the subject of Vonitsa, the 1st and 2nd Municipal Schools, and that is where we proceed on the basis of the suggestions we have received and after a discussion with the mayor, where we feel that the excuses and facts he has put forward are not exactly what he has told us. There is the theme of the 9th and 19th Municipal School of Agrinio. This last year he had taken a suspension of the merger. This year we have a request again from the regional director to suspend for another year. We accept this request and therefore there will be no merger of the 9th Graduate School together with the 19th, but suspension for another year. In order not to take too much time, in my dentistry, I will raise some issues, as I have said, of substance and not just of the type. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u6	Please, Ms. Triantafel, you have the floor for your dentology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, you told me about the 9th and 19th that there is another time to suspend, which means that it is positive for the local community too, it means that you too will be consulted and perhaps there will be one solution that will be the most appropriate. So I'm going to Vonica. There are suggestions. They're steadfast schools, I said so myself in the first place, and I imagine the primary school director's suggestion is based on that. I mean, it's one of the criteria. There are, however, other criteria, which, of course, also speak of other issues - and they are right to talk about other issues - such as, for example, the number that will arise from the merger of pupils - we do not want to see the mammoth schools, we have said so - the existing school staff for the year, which we are discussing next year and next year, the possibility of the school unit to be created by the merger, the number of pupils who are transported, which we do not yet have. I want to insist very much on the building problem in Vonica. Of course, I think you have been sent - and if they have not been sent, I will attach them to you - the elements which both the teachers and the parents' associations give us, and the fears are expressed that the membership section will also be lost. I will give it to you to bear in mind that, for the two schools, their buildings will not be enough and that they will not, in essence, be able to have all those programmes and the accession departments. I think we should take this seriously. And I think that every time we do, I say again, a suggestion, it is very important to take the responsibility of the report as well. I say this because when they become municipal councils, there are objections - and they do well - and there are objections - but we need to know and who is responsible and the Minister must have full information about the decisions he will make. I'll invite you to reconsider the vonitsa case. And think it out, because it should normally be the saying "the eating and healing." In other words, the primary director and the regional manager should rethink the issue because they have all the facts - I will not tell them to do one or the other - and, on the other hand, there should be consultation. If you do not know, I tell you that there are objections to the kind of consultation. Finally, I'm interested in the unavoidable process. We, as SYRIZA, said that we should - and that is what we did - take measures immediately so that public education does not collapse, that there are books in their seats, teachers in their seats, etc. It is of great importance that the rational management of staff should be carried out. We know all these clienteles with distractions, etc., they are well known, I don't have to say them. I'm vertically opposed to the quarrel from wherever it comes. That's a phrase I don't use. What I am interested in, then, is that we should help to ensure that the educational process is intact and that there is a dialogue with the societies. I would ask you to consider this decision, to have a re-consultation. It is really necessary, because we are talking about very large schools with problems and intense building problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u8	Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u9	Mrs Triantafel, I hope what you said is not about the government, because for the first time - this year is the third year - schools will be opened on time. This has never happened before in the last few decades. It sounds obvious, but, you know, in a lot of things in our country, self-evident is almost revolutionary. And it's not just that the doors open on time, but it's that the teachers are there, that they're the teachers there, that they're the books there and in a context of suffocating budgetary constraints. Secondly, we have to look at them again, but we have to accept that the procedures we have chosen are procedures that strengthen democracy. In other words, we have the training directors, we have the regional directors and we must rely on them as a ministry, and we must not replace them. You understand that. In particular - I am sorry, I am looking at you, but I am addressing local societies - local societies should not try to circumvent these institutions. Because in addition to people who are in every region, in every address, they are institutions of democracy. Because it is true that the Ministry is bypassing their suggestions, their proposals, their reflections and doing its own head. It's not right. Of course the Ministry has the ultimate political responsibility, so that we do not think it does not have it, but you understand that it also has a very heavy view of the regional and the manager. In addition, local selfgovernment should also be in charge of its responsibilities. You said about the buildings. I do not know the specific interventions that local government has made in your area, although I am trying to get a plan for building interventions. It's like state secrets. We ask for them from various municipalities and the municipalities never send them to us. I understand that more funds are needed, and so on, but planning interventions in buildings, which is exclusively the responsibility of local government, is one thing in which local communities should also push the municipalities, see what we need. You know very well that the Ministry of Interior recently has 50 million more for such interventions. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The third, which is not directly related, but just by the way I would like to say it and end it, is this: there is always a misconceived parental care for their children. What do I mean? They believe that the fewer children are in one class the more children will learn, the better the education process. That's what you know is not true. Because children go to school not only to learn letters, but also to socialize. So they want an optimal number of classmates and classmates to be involved in this process of socialization. I say this and I insist that it has nothing to do with the issue that you raised, but we always have parents coming - and indeed it makes me impression - with great courage, I would say, and they say that we do so at school, because our children don't want to send them elsewhere, and we know that this is five children in one class and six children in another class, when the state cares for means of transport, so that a few miles below that education will be much more essential. We will see what you have said with respect to the reports that are coming to us and I would ask you to have intervention in local government so that it can also be responsible for the issues involved in the building. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. We move on to the next timely question, which will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Apostleou. It is the fifth under number 16/23-2018 and is a topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Destructive disease damage to tobacco production in the Regional Unit of Rhodope". Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. We would like once again as a Communist Party of Greece to express the condolences to the families of the victims and to express all this enormous effort made by the firefighters, the Port Authority and especially the solidarity movement that has been manifested these days by the people and above all by the labour unions in the region, as well as by the whole of the country. We think it is a good example that words should be transformed into practice and that the affected and in no case the problems that have arisen through this tragedy do not become an alibi in order to cover up the enormous responsibilities of governments over time. I come to the question now. Minister, as you already know, our timely question is about a serious problem, I would say survival problem, which concerns over six thousand tobacco growers in the Rhodope Prefecture. The neurotic virosis disease, which affected tobacco farming in the region, effectively destroyed production at a large rate of 60% -70% and in some cases 100%. This whole situation was generally favoured by the weather, high temperatures that the region had in winter, but also by the drought in spring. This situation has led to despair for the tobacco growers, not only because they were so high the rates of destruction and basically tobacco growers are left without income, but because at the same time they have to pay all these carpets of ENPIA, EKKA, their contribution, namely premiums, to ELGA and a series of carpets, taxes, etc. However, several of the tobacco growers also went to reseeds. This means that the cost of cultivation, which is too high anyway, is increasing even more. Thirdly, we are talking about poor biopalestors and in an area where tobacco farming is a monoculture, that is to say, where tobacco producers have no place to expect revenue. We ask you in particular, and the tobacco growers in the region are asking for an answer to these questions: Firstly, what are you going to do to ensure that the damages are immediately recorded and that - and this is what this year - tobacco growers are compensated for? Secondly, do you intend to make a decision so that the outstanding debts will be frozen, as I said before in ELGA, ENVIA, the EPCA? And finally, are you going to change the regulations of both ELGA and PSEA, so that 100% of the damage is compensated and include such causes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u13	Mr Colleague, I, too, begin my response from the first place to the insurmountable tragedy that our country is experiencing, I would like to say that the mind of all of us right now is near the relatives of the dead and the missing. It is an hour that we need to offer relief to the affected, which the government is already doing with its communications every day, exhausting every possibility we have. Of course, we will look for the causes of the tragedy. Nothing will remain unanswered, as the Prime Minister himself stated with his message. I just have to stress once again that the moments are such that we are not allowed to be confronted at this time and it is good that in the political climate there is solidarity, I would say, a unity and what is important at this moment is how we will be as close as possible to the affected. So I come to your question. I will reply to you according to information that we receive from the regional authorities and in this case from ELGA Alexandroupolis, who also controls the Regional Unit of Rhodope. In Rhodope’s tobacco growers, although no damage covered by the insurer, the ELGA, was found, there were however infections from viruses - diseases. This creates an obligation for us to monitor the development of viruses in the crop and the size of the damage that may be caused, but this is after the completion of the harvest period, where, as far as they were found to have had a loss of income from the loss of income, then, of course, through procedures that are also fulfilled by state financial aid, and also by the European Commission's guidelines, we will incorporate these damages into the programmes known to farmers as PSE programmes. But the compensation for the loss of production must also be demonstrated by evidence, which we will certainly gather from the regional authorities. The second is that the damage to be compensated must be over 30%. You'll tell me now we'll make it a little younger. That is what the relevant regulation says, this agreement exists with the European Commission. So since these are adopted - of course the Ministry of Rural Development is already doing this - which means that the European Commission will also approve, because the dossier will be discussed, the Ministry of Finance will of course be able to cover us with the appropriate amounts. More about the questions you've put, I'll tell you in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u14	Mr Vardalis has the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Listen, Minister, I think that things are much more serious than what you said in your prototype. Here we have a disaster, and you tell me that we need to get information from the ELGA on an issue that does not compensate for it. Where will ELGA be found after he doesn't go to make assessments? Therefore, the first issue to be solved is that the level of damage should now be determined and, in our opinion, what you must do is that the services go now to see the size of the damage and not then to see how much production has been produced. First of all, I told you that a number of tobacco growers were forced under this situation because they had a total destruction of 100%, that is to say, to resurrect. How will they be compensated when you take into account the production they have made? Second matter. Now they have a financial problem. How will they pay all those rags you've loaded them on the back? So they have to be compensated now. We are told 'yes', after production, to see what problem there will be and what problem there will be. because the ELGA does not compensate, they will be compensated through the PES procedure. You know better than me - because I also have similar examples - that farmers and farmers, apart from receiving compensation for 30% or no more than 40% of the damage suffered, are compensated for after three and four years. After three and four years! Are you suggesting that to farmers that they be patient for three and four years? And how will they cope with these issues? To conclude, I would like to say this: there is a serious need. I imagine you're going to refer to this in your dentistry. Such diseases cannot be insured by the ELGA. You mentioned the PES regulation and the restrictions it places on it. For example, there are eighteen restrictions, not for farmers to receive compensation, but for them to be entitled to apply to join the programmes of the CEECs. There are ten more for plant production. Go over all these limitations and join these programs and finally get 30% -40% of the damage after three - four years. We should not blame others here. This regulation has your signature. This regulation passed on 30-12-2016 shortly before the year was changed. It is our opinion that you must commit that this kind of change in the regulations must take place immediately. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u17	Mr Colleagues, the loss of crops will certainly be documented by completing the growing season. We cannot cover these damages from the ELGA in this case, because in the ELGA regulation this damage has no insurance cover. To make procedures to incorporate new risks into the ELGA regulation is a procedure which requires some interventions that start from scientific study and proportionate study. In other words, it is a process which, of course, you know will also end up in a specific premium. These things need to be understood so that ELGA can respond, because it is a fund that operates 100% efficiently. What farmers pay, they are returned to themselves through estimates. In this case, pointers were made. The geotechnics went and saw that there's an insult that's going on. It cannot be covered by the insurance risk of the ELGA. The rest of the procedures can be done. That's the one part. The second thing we need to see is that, with regard in particular to these payments which want to be suspended, there are procedures in which the Minister for Finance can in an area, since it is declared in an emergency, to make such arrangements for farmers. Also, they can themselves, through economic tax, regulate their debts through the insurance funds. It's not something that can't be done. In other words, it is a process that they themselves must serve. I would like to say to you by closing that in particular the insurer, ELGA, at this time despite the many damages that you all see our country is experiencing, is trying as soon as possible to make payments at least that have insurance cover. These are paid within seven to eight months. From that point on, the rest of the procedures are time-consuming. Of course, they have been shortened by the three - four years that we had previously waited for half and less. That is the possibility. From there on, if we want - and certainly it is necessary - to see the ELGA through new proportionate studies, that is something we have already set up a scientific service, a working group, to study and present proposals. We believe that within the next six months, we will also have completed these procedures where there really is need.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much. We move on to the second, or to the second, with number 15/23-7-2018, a timely question from the Deputy Serres of the New Democracy, Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The risk of dismissal by the NSR/SR 2014-2020 of the works of Amphipolis, due to the impediment of the Ministry of Culture". The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Connordou. Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Let me and myself express our deep grief at this unscrupulous tragedy that shocks the country, humility and respect for our sincere condolences to the relatives of the deceased. It is not the time for responsibility, which is, of course, there, but solidarity and wish that these should be the last victims we mourn. Madam Minister, we are discussing today, after about two postponements and about three months, an issue which hurts - and allow me to say - the Serres, the Macedonians and the North Hellas. We are once again discussing the abandonment of the radiation memorial tomb of Amphipolis. It is a matter of fatality and de facto linked to the harmful Prespecies Agreement, this agreement of the unequivocal concession of Macedonian language and ethnicity in Skopje. And I'm sorry to say it, but echoing the popular feeling, only maybe someone can explain the indifference that your Government has shown three and a half years for this radiation-government Macedonian monument, because obviously you don't care about the story that is hidden in Tymvos Kastas. Why, Minister, what should one be able to do first? The deceasedness of your predecessors, Mr. Xydakis and Baltas? Remember what? Your statements nine months ago, that the work of this multi-storey ESDP will begin? Your commitments six months ago, that you approved the execution of the first tasks, since of course the fiasco of the initial rejection of the application of the ESDP programme had been preceded by serious deficiencies on the part of your Ministry? And after all that - words, words, words! - None - but none! - work has not been done on the Kasta hill. And as if not all of this were enough, the regulator's letter of 27 April, which, Minister, denounces that, if you do not do so by the end of July, the European Union will respond to the work of the NRP, this EUR 1.5 million, all of which you have not given Amphipolis, and of course - it is true! - not from your Ministry's resources, but from Community money. So, at the end of July, Minister, I ask you exactly what is going on with the work, what is the reason for this new irreversible delay?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u20	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u21	I would like to say in my turn that our country is in very deep mourning. It's the thought of all of us next to those who fight. The government has taken very serious relief measures. It is shocking to offer solidarity from all citizens and with them and the immigrants who live and work in Greece. They also participate in this mourning and offer. The Ministry of Culture and Sport stands in solidarity, like all ministries, with volunteers and resources for the relief of the affected. Mrs Arabatzis, I have repeatedly answered several questions which have been raised in relation to the Amphipolis issue. You have turned - I am sorry, but it is regrettable - this issue, a monument of great importance, into an outbreak of sterile confrontation which I fear misinforms and gives a wrong signal to the fair anxiety and the fair expectation of the inhabitants of the region, but also of all Greece. This monument is indeed a very important monument, which in its report, which has taken place in previous years, required very serious conservation, protection, before one reaches the restoration, because it was exposed to damage mechanisms, with the most important problem being the loads that were received from the overriding soils and the surroundings, as well as moisture and weather problems. In the past three years, projects were carried out to protect the river basins. In addition, the first sustainable maintenance interventions were carried out in stone elements, coatings, mosaics and serious enclosure support measures, and regular monitoring and monitoring of temperature and humidity recording systems and the safety of the monument. So we're not talking about any abandonment. The monument is continuously monitored and protected with necessary conservation measures and life-threatening interventions. In addition, there have been improvements in access to space, fences and safety and security infrastructures. The Ministry of Culture has met all its obligations. No response from any NSRF has ever been noted. What makes you think this will happen to this emblematic monument? During the previous period, all the studies required for the fixing, maintenance, restoration and promotion of the monument were carried out and approved by the Central Archaeological Council and, of course, a decisive step in this direction is the integration of the project into the "CENTRAL MAKEDONIA" operational programme. At the start of the first sub-project entitled ‘Technical Adviser’, from which the selection of a team of scientists to support the responsible Administration of Restoration of Ancient Monuments would take into account the fact that the drafting of the notices had to take into account both the new legal framework established since 2016 and the requirements of the competition in an electronic way. There are two ways of working with the regions, Mrs Arabaji. The first way is to return the cards. The second is cooperation with the region to correct any shortcomings. The region has chosen the first version, the return. However, cooperation with the region has not ceased. Immediately the scientists and officials of the Ministry of Culture came up, found the points that had to be corrected and corrected. On 30-5-2018, the final dossier was submitted to the Special Service of the Region of Central Macedonia. On 10-7-2018, the relevant declaration for the promotion of the technical consultant of the project was published on 9-8-2018. According to the project schedule, in September the works of reconstructing the solid device of the monument are expected to begin, on the basis of the study prepared, [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Excuse me, Mr. President. I'm gonna need some more time. Thank you. At the same time, at the beginning of August, the necessary archaeological sections are expected to be launched in the emblems, while the procedures for the forced expropriation of all the adjacent property around the monument are being promoted. The relevant topographical charts have already been prepared by the Archaeological Resources Fund and at the end of July some objections are expected from the beneficiaries. There is therefore no abandonment, Mrs Arabaji. The contents of Mr Djitzkosta's warning letter from the Region of Central Macedonia to the direction of resilience, to which you refer, regarding the failure to include the first sub-project, no longer applies. Therefore, there is no risk of the project being met, as, as I have noted above, the request for the first sub-project to be submitted on 30 May, and on 10 July the relevant declaration was published. I would like to stress here something that we citizens, who are not part of the archaeological community many times, do not understand that archaeologists receive centuries and give them to the centuries. Therefore, they need to be very careful, very coordinate and gradual, their interventions and interventions in the monuments that are revealed because they have to deliver them to the next generations as protected as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u22	Mrs Arabaji, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u23	Madam Minister, I cannot comment on your initial position that it is supposedly regrettable that we are turning the monument to a point of confrontation. I was very well-qualified when you took over the leadership of the Ministry of Culture. You remember my first timely question. I told you that your personality gives me the optimism that you will give this monument the value and attention that he deserves. So because you talked about sorrow, in relation to party controversy, I do not want to remind you of the headlines of "AUSY" of August 2015 that proves party empathy, SYRIZA's mob for this particular Macedonian universal monument, speaking of "Aphipolis, fiasco Samara". I, Minister, have been here for three and a half years, calling for the respective leadership of the Ministry of Culture to tell us what has been done in Amphipolis. We, Minister, live there. These management responses and the tactics you're trying to confuse with here, we live in close proximity. It is July 2018, you have committed yourself with written answers that within the year the work of the ESDP will be completed and has not fallen any tea on the Kasta hill. I am making a provision: until the end of August - and this is what is to be seen in the face of the European Union - you will place some housekeepers to show that there is work. You are talking again about the same management responses as you - and, of course, your predecessors - about allegedly expropriations. Minister, a year and a half has passed since the CAS's opinion, and it has taken on another service to make this positioning that you say and declare, because the archaeological resource fund has had its papers stacked up for a year and a half, and has not been transcribed. What happened to the bone analysis program? You were handed over 236,000 euros with cooperation from the Ministry of Culture, the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Democritus University for bone analysis. And this is another undisputed witness about the history and the Macedonianity of this monument. Where'd he go? You threw this in the trash too. What about the transfer of the hundred marble members from the lion of Amphipolis to the hill of Kastas, as you yourself committed yourself in November 2017? And you're telling me we're talking about this? The District Director tells you that, until the end of July, you have not done any energy and now, at the same time, have speeded up some tactical arrangements and given the tendering documents for one of the seven sub-projects to prevent the new Waterlo, you who, on your day, became the fiasco of the original rejection of the file, Minister. Do I say these or do your works and your days? Please, Minister. On the Kasta hill, right now, there's dead inappropriateness. Another summer, another year, 2018, especially the ideal year for work, leaves unrealistic and another heavy Macedonian winter due to your unreservedness and humiliation will fall on the Macedonian, the universal monument in which you have an obligation, Mrs. Minister: Behave as appropriate, that is, national.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u24	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u25	I'm sorry, but I don't think you've watched what I've already answered. I don't know if time allows me to come back. However, the Ministry of Culture, on the basis of a fair distribution of resources, of growth in terms of sustainability and sustainability, is making every possible effort. Resources of EUR 310,000 000 have been provided for the cultural sector in all sectors and regions of the ESDP. All these specialised resources have been activated. Proposals have been put forward for forty a budget of EUR 197 000, 000, which already accounts for 66% of the total call budget. This shows no delay and no indifference. EUR 130 million has already been integrated and implemented in difficult budgetary conditions. As you know, the Ministry of Culture has no sectoral programmes and works with the regions and other ministries to carry out projects. Therefore, as you can see, the protection and enhancement of the burial monument of Tymvos Kastas of Amphipolis is a priority along with other important monuments in our country. I insist and stress that it is a multidimensional project, with complex technical data. The necessary tasks are required to be coordinate. What people think of as a delay does not mean that studies, preparation, maintenance, sustainable work are not being carried out at the same time. Therefore, with steady steps and on the basis of scientific ethics of cooperation and with the region, this work is a complex work of high expertise. Only in this way are they restored, as is appropriate and avoided damage, which could be caused unreturnably to these monuments. All the subsequent work you say will take a step - step by step, as has been done with all the monuments of the territory and the result we have is a very high level, as we are recognised internationally. I would like to stress here that we are concerned about the overall emergence of the monuments of ancient Amphipolis and not just of the hill. At the same time, there is also the inclusion of the Interreg Cross-border Cooperation Programme, which provides for the creation of a tour network around Amphipolis, around the site, for visitors tour. There is also the excavation research at the Ancient Theatre of Amphipolis, which will highlight the wider area. That is why, on the basis of what I have said, we are acting systematically, using all the necessary scientific tools, without rush - I repeat - solely in view of the overall emergence and maintenance of the burial monument and the environment, by adopting for this important monument a clear and strictly hierarchical planning of actions and a global interdisciplinary approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Consolidation of contracts between the Greek State and the General Hospital of Chania and the Committee of Testament Enforcers G.G. Malinaki and the General Hospital of Kefalonia and the Executioners of the Marie (Marie) Wearer respectively." Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, before entering the debate on the bill - as we decided yesterday in the Conference of Presidents - I would like to say a few words and then to speak as well. The House, along with the whole country, watched and watched the unscrupulous tragedy, which was unfolded with dozens of our fellow citizens from the fire, especially in Matti. The country expresses its solidarity in practice through its citizens and its organisations. The Government has already taken a number of first steps with the act of legislation in the first place to set up a central account for the immediate relief of the affected and all the measures announced yesterday, which may even today be part of a respective act of legislation, so that it can immediately begin its implementation. We are in the process of a three-day mourning for the country, as it was reasonable. At the same time, from the first moment - and there were no substantial objections to this - the House said that it was present and that during its traditions it was left open. The House remains open, does its work, of course, on low tones and on the specific issues on which the committees and the Department had been convened these days, so that it is the Step, as has always been in the past decades, for the parties to be able to express their views and, of course, either government measures or anything else. It would be incomprehensible for us to be closed these three days, to be absent. I would also like to say on this occasion that I congratulate the Association of Members of the European Parliament, who have immediately expressed their solidarity with a very massive blood donation, in which a hundred and fifty with two hundred employees participated and a sufficient amount of blood was collected together with other efforts being made to ensure that the injured can benefit from this minimal contribution to their recovery and that we do not have some unpleasant phenomena there. I would also like to say to you that in the context of the debate we held at the Conference of Presidents, we accepted the proposal again unanimously, to recommend to the Permanent Committee of the Parliament, Justice, Public Order, the Ministry of Interior, these issues, in the Third Summer Section of the House, in September, that there should be a well-prepared hearing with all the actors in civil protection and that there should also be decisions to be put forward to the Bureau so that there might be a special committee or any other procedure that would stimulate this process and make it even more effective on the basis of the dramatic experiences of the last 15 years. In addition to that, and that is why I should like to inform you that after the unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents yesterday, I propose that today we take the decision to grant the sum of EUR 10 million from the Parliament's reserve, from the special account set up by a legislative act by the government through the Ministry of Finance, to relieve those who have been affected by the recent catastrophic fires that caused the human tragedy we are experiencing. In addition, the Conference of Presidents unanimously decided that the House should examine the possibility of directly contributing to the support of children affected by their family. After completing the full duplication of the situation, a working group will be set up with representatives of the Parliament, the Ministry of the Interior and regional and local government proposing concrete measures to support these children, obviously in parallel with the measures already announced yesterday by the Government and any other support measures for children. I will give the floor for three to five minutes to the Parliamentary Representatives or, at any rate, to the representatives of the parties to have a first place, say, in this proposal which is unanimously adopted by the Conference of Presidents, so that then there will also be a decision of the Department, which I hope will be unanimous on these issues, today, which is actually closed and the three-day mourning, even though it is clear that this story will seal not only in the coming months, but also in general the conscience of our people and the anger and sensitivities. It is an incision that one would say that often produces extremely heavy emotions to all. I very much ask Mr. Mada of SYRIZA to take the floor and Mr. Dimas will follow from the New Democracy. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in these days, we have seen an unscrupulous tragedy which has hit our country very hard, a tragedy involving dozens of human victims. On behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, I would like to express our regret and support for the families of those who are suffering the victims and the families of those who have missing and who are anxiously awaiting the final conclusion, namely how this scary list will be formed at the end. There is no doubt that these days are days of mourning, but also days of solidarity, manifested in the most intense way from all of our people. I think that this wave is unprecedented, but also equivalent to the circumstances that have occurred in our country, in the region, in the people of the region. This time is the hour of the greatest effort, so that the process of identifying the victims can be made as quickly as possible and that procedures can be found to find those who are missing with great care, with great respect, with a plan and systematic effort. We believe that at this very juncture no one has left behind. We must unite forces - that is what our people are showing us - we must be very determined in the measures taken and they will be taken in order to relieve the affected. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this tragedy poses tough questions which need to be answered, and of course it poses specific challenges and tasks, for the future, so that we do not have to live up to such tragedy again. I think there will be the right time very soon, so that the responses will also be given, as they are taken, and that further steps will also be taken to ensure that the Greek state decides, in deep areas, to define the conditions so that we do not relive such tragedies. I would like to express respect on the part of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group for all and all, officials of services, fire extinguishers, the Fire Corps, the Police, the Port Authority, the Armed Forces, the EKA, all the departments coordinated in the region, have worked in the first hours of this tragedy and continue to work, so that there is a rapid relief for the injured. And, of course, to express our respect and solidarity with the heroic work of volunteers and volunteers in the region. I would also like to say, on behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, our warmest thanks for the enthusiastic support shown by many countries in Europe and the world, in this unscrupulous tragedy that our country lives in. Finally, I should like to say, Mr President, that we fully agree with the measures taken by the House, which we discussed yesterday at the Conference of Presidents, so that we can also contribute to the relief of these people. I think that all of us, from all political forces, must take all those measures and continue with perseverance - I repeat - so that whatever measures are taken, they can be done in the fastest way and any areas that must be made - and institutional areas for him to be, I would say, a barrier to the repetition of such phenomena - make them as quickly as possible and with the greatest possible unity and solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u29	Thank you. Please, Mr Dimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the New Democracy, I would like to express our warmest sympathy to the families of the people who have been lost so unjustly and so prematurely by the fires of the last few days. All our thoughts and prayers are with them. The state must stand by them. We also express our sympathy to the thousands of people who have suddenly seen, within a few minutes, the waste of life, where we must stand by them as a state. Ladies and gentlemen, we have failed as a state and as a state. We have failed and there is absolutely no excuse! It is not the moment of responsibility now, it is not today. But it will come very soon, and we must be vague in the area of performance, responsibility for the events that have taken place over the last few days. At the moment, indeed, unity is required and the suffering must finally become a lesson to us. I call on all political parties to set at least an example, to get away from sterile controversy, and to have the political debate now with arguments, political controversy and not at a personal level. Allow me, however, to express my congratulations and say that I am inclined - I am inclined! - volunteers, firefighters, police officers, port and EKAV, to all these people who under very difficult conditions, at the risk of their lives, tried and gave their best self to protect human lives and property. In particular, I believe that the moment has come when the state has to recognise it and reward them. They are people who, daily throughout the country, at risk of their lives, by self-determination, have protected many human lives and property, but have not been recognized by the state. But this unscrupulous catastrophe still has to be learned. We must realise that only united Greeks will be able to avoid such catastrophes in the future. The time has come when we need to realize and find a balance between individual and collective responsibility. Right now, we haven't found her. Mr President, the measures announced at the Conference of Presidents are of the opinion that this is a good first step. As I said before, I think the state must stand, exhausting its potential, next to these people. We welcome these measures as a new democracy, but we insist that other decisive steps must be taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr Dimas. Mr Giannis Maniotis has the floor from the Democratic Co-responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, we are experiencing a national tragedy. We live days of mourning and the only thing that fits in these moments is silence, silence of all of us as a very small sign of solidarity with the suffering of the families of the eighty of a dead and tens of missing persons and victims. The whole Greek society has been shocked because we have lived and lived the biggest national disaster in the last decades. What one can say is that society has shown a very strong sense of solidarity with the victims, families and missing persons, volunteers have shown exactly how civil society and all the officials of services, from fire and port to EKA, have been standing and self-sacrificingly doing what they had to do. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, there are many relentless 'how' things. and ‘why?’ And of course these questions will be raised in the next few days. Today all we have to do is unite our forces so that the first positive step taken by the national Parliament - that is, the unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents - is to be a good example of how we should tackle national disasters, and above all how we need to learn from our mistakes, from the mistakes of the past, so that we can prevent such catastrophes being repeated in every way. Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European Democratic Alliance and our President, Mrs Gennamata, we will be able to support all the initiatives taken by the national Parliament in order to ease the suffering of the victims' families and with the experience of disasters, to take all the necessary steps to prevent such phenomena being repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Maniotis. Mr Pappas has the floor from the People's Association - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u34	We, Mr President, will not remain silent. The people are extremely affected, they are not silent and we will not do so either. We won't do it when the Greek flag flows out of this building or the sacred rock in the middle of the tissue, wounded, we won't silence, because this flag we have to lift it up again. And we need to lift it up, fighting a truly criminal structure, a repulsive, a defensive system, which drowns and burns its citizens, a state-killer of the Greek people, a state that is a monster of indifference and 'ocharmophilia', this mentality - and a political mentality - which you have raised and supported. I'm gonna stand up to something I read a moment ago and I'm really surprised. Mr. Toskas instead of being silent in front of this disaster, in this tragedy, said: "There was no time for an evacuation order. I'm not quitting. The Eye was a huge arbitrary." In other words, as it says, 'Look, citizens, when they exist arbitrarily, the state is renounced and does not protect you'. What can I say about that? I can only say three words. Shame, shame, shame! You said - we have heard this constantly these days from the government, we have heard it from the opposition just now - that it is not time for human life to be blamed. What are you telling us, humanists? Do you want to buy time? Do you want this to be forgotten, as the dead of Elijah of 2007 have been forgotten, or like the drowned of Mandra in November 2017? Do you want to buy time? 'This is not the time to be accounted for': it is barely now the time to assume responsibilities, which are fresh. When is it going to be an account? When will the weather pass? When will the calamity be forgotten and wait for the next one? Do you think - because I have heard of the Conference of Presidents - that you will overcome your guilt by EUR 10 million? Is that how you value human life? A hundred dead in the last eight months! Is that how you value human life, with 10 million euros?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u35	What are you talking about? Whatever you want to say now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u36	Please, sir!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u37	Whatever you want to say now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u38	Please! Please, Mr. Papadopoulos!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u39	The Greek people ask themselves: this is an unambiguous indifference, cynicism, inability to the detriment of society as a whole.Huh? Is it criminal offences on the part of the government or ministers? And I don't just mean today's government to be fair. Are there things we are ignoring, things in Parliament that we do not know about? It's all about people. And these questions I am moving here today. It was what happened. We have these dead people. Wouldn't anyone ask for an apology? Aren't we even going to have a minister's resignation? I would remind you that in Japan with tsunami, a Japanese Minister made a raki. Of course we're not Japan, but I'm wondering: May an apology? Instead, we have the courage of the government! He says Mr Kourublis, 'Let us not become overreacting', referring to the tragedy in Matti. At this point I have to tell you that firefighters did everything, they exaggerated themselves! The police, the porters, the Navy, who went to the beaches in Matty. The Greeks, with this altruistic spirit that possesses the Greek, that is, solidarity with the fellowman, did their duty. All this makes me wonder: Did you do what you had to do? The government did what it had to do? And as atheistic left, now invoke God and say "them." Woe-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo! It's disgraceful! Godfather! We're throwing them to God. It's not God's fault! It's your fault and I'm sure you'll get the answer you need. You'll leave the political scene and with the Greeks, we'll lift the wounded flag back up. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, Mr President - and I thank you very much - I want to put in the Minutes the announcement of the Riding Left Coalition office of 26-8-2007. It's a communication that suits you perfectly. How do fate bring them? What you wrote back then fits you perfectly. I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u40	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u41	I shall also read to you - and this goes to the previous speaker in the New Democracy - the following: ‘The Members of the Greeks, the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee on the study of the problem of fires in depth and the suggestion of ways of organisation and means for their long-term and effective response. May 1993'. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What did you do? The conclusion says very good things. 1993! What were you doing until 2018? Nothing! You're all co-responsible! Outside, in Matty, it smells burnt. It smells rotten!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u42	I very much urge the spokesman from the JRC, Mr Karathanasopoulos, to take the floor. Before that I feel the need to tell you that every political force, with the reason it emits in here, just repositions and confirms its identity, mood and ideology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u43	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u44	Please do not write in the Minutes what Mr Pappas said, what he said about today! Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, the Communist Party of Greece expresses its condolences to the families of the victims of the fires in the region of East Attica and of course calls on the Government to take immediate measures to relieve and protect all those affected by the catastrophic fires. We call, in other words, for family information to be provided to the missing persons, for there to be immediate measures to support public health infrastructures in the region so that they can assist and treat the needy, and for safe housing, cleanliness, hygiene, clothing and firefighting to be immediately restored to the basic infrastructure, i.e. the water supply and electricity networks in the region. And, of course, recording the damage must lead to total compensation for disasters caused by these murderous fires. Mr President, we have stressed that national mourning cannot be an alibi - we will discuss more fully - to cover the time-consuming responsibilities that exist, which led Athens to be an irreversible city, which resulted in a substantial lack of planning, a substantial lack of prevention and timely treatment of such phenomena. Despite the heroic, some moments, efforts by rescuers, fire extinguishers and the rest of the bodies that contributed to this effort, it was not possible to prevent the presence of victims, this specified result, which was, in essence, a predetermined. Of course, the measures announced by the government cannot and must not be forgiven. We and yesterday at the Conference of Presidents accepted the two measures announced by the President of Parliament, although we have reservations - which we stressed yesterday - on the special account, because we also have experience from previous specific accounts, such as the Molyviat Fund: where the money went, how much money went, how it was spent and what the end was. Because it is not just the issues of transparency and sound management of the account, but there are also issues relating to funding priorities and planning. Here too, the government's responsibility for direct financing and planning must not be concealed. I will conclude by saying that the Communist Party of Greece calls on its members, friends, but above all the workers, trade unions and mass media, not only to organise their solidarity with the affected and to take immediate action, but above all to organize their struggle to claim full recovery from the disasters.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. I would also like to clarify from the Step of the House, on the basis of yesterday's announcements and the act of legislation in which this special account was established, that clear consideration is also given to transparency and to the time when the money is being paid. Most of all, however, it comes under the control of the Court of Auditors and regular audits of accountants. It is not, in other words, a government, arbitrary or any other type of attempt through an account to have solidarity from there and beyond, some to ask - or all of us - where the money goes, etc. Just because this debate has been held and because there are the experiences you have mentioned, this special account has been shielded. It is an issue which we discussed yesterday at the Conference of Presidents. I note, of course, your comment. It's in the Minutes. Thank you very much. Mr Katsikis has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of the Attica Region, which are the two municipalities of Marathon and Rafina - Pikermio, I live the grief of my fellow citizens, I experience unprecedented situations and I realize the responsibilities of all of us. You know, sometimes words fail to describe what happens to the soul. And the souls of all of us are as tan as much as the black that left behind the neck of fire. Monday afternoon was one of what no one thought would live in. Parents strive to save their children, grandparents struggling to save their grandchildren and men. These are scenes that the mind really refuses to record and strive to erase. I do not know whether the term 'tragedy' is sufficient to describe everything we have seen and our fellow citizens lived that night. I don't know if there's tears to wipe out, comfort to say, wish to express to these people. The financial support announced is self-evident, and it is the least we can do directly for our fellow people and, of course, it is welcome, Mr President, that the decision following the Conference of Presidents for further financial support. Today, the state contributes by providing all possible help to the firefighters. I walked the area two and three times. I felt people's pain. For their relief, daily, the measures taken really catch a place. The Armed Forces are there, present, the police, the fire brigade. All the state mechanism is now making its effort. The uncontrolled effects of natural phenomena tend to become unmanageable anymore. At this time of the imposed silence, let us all consider citizens and politicians, what we did not have to do and what we did not have to do. That's where we'll all find our responsibilities. But not now. This is not the time and, of course, I would be the last person to take advantage of politically, confronting this national tragedy. We are still in national mourning. Now we have a duty to kneel down to pick up those who fell. The state is invited in less than a year to face two unprecedented phenomena: an unprecedented flood and an unprecedented fire. Both were the result - as much as it sounds wooden expression - of extreme weather. And the incredible rainfall rates when they hit Mandra - Idyllia in the west Attica last autumn and the winds of the eleven bottles that were blowing the other day are not included in normal weather conditions. At the beginning of the summer, at a meeting of the Committee on the Environment, I had expressed my concerns about our readiness to deal with such phenomena. I had also wondered about our readiness in the field of prevention. I do not know, of course, whether the brutality of the matter before us could be dealt with by any means. The tragic speed with which it evolved really surprised everyone. I am pleased, however, that both the Greek Parliament and the Government, in these times of economic distress, have responded with unprecedented bravery, helping and financially supporting the affected. I think it is a surplus to talk about the self-sacrificing of uniforms and ordinary citizens, because all their actions have been dictated not by the obligation, but by the humanity that distinguishes them. And this is a component of the idiosyncrasy of our people who never succeeded in destroying it. Both of these natural disasters occurred in areas I know very well. I don't know if these areas will ever be as they were before. They hit people I know personally and - believe me - all this management is really difficult. On behalf of the Group of the European Democratic Alliance of Independent Greeks, together with any support for the affected and firefighting, we express our deep regret and grief. Our warmest condolences to the relatives of our wronged fellow citizens. I bet life, whatever position we may have happened to be and serve the state, to overthrow the characterisation of Thucydides: 'the viewers of the words and the listeners of the works'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u48	Thank you. My colleague, Mr Mavrotas, has the floor from the Potamian Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Today's sitting is the first after "Black Monday". July 23, 2018 is a date that will haunt us. This meeting cannot begin with the condolences of the tragic victims concerned, but also with an apology I feel at least that it is necessary for me to say on behalf of the state that it has not managed to protect them even in the face of extremely difficult circumstances. It's still a day of mourning and crushing. We won't be criticising. We don't have all the data yet. We will expect the ashes to despise, and when we stop counting victims, each to assume their responsibilities, not so much to be punished - a greater punishment than our own conscience - there is no - but to diagnose what went wrong, what was to blame, so that no such tragedy is repeated in the future. So we must try to heal the wounds, run without bureaucratic delay the procedures in Matti, Rafina, Marathon, Kineta. In the medium term - and those who are wiser - we must look again at the issues of fire protection, the residential expansion in forests, the legalisation of arbitrary and settlements, and not be afraid of the 'bulk' of political costs. Political costs are ultimately completely insignificant in the face of the dramatic cost of human lives. We realize it after every disaster, but a few days later we forget it. We continue business as usual in the next setup, in the next bill. Pleasants in the country of arbitrary. Today's mistakes cannot hide the mistakes of the past, nor can we call on them to cover the current ones. So let us keep the solidarity and lessons that the citizens have given us on offer at the moment. To keep the self-renunciation of security forces, volunteers, nurses, doctors, who in very difficult circumstances gave themselves the best. The responsibilities for the others will be attributed to their time. We, too, agree with Parliament's predictions. Some of them were even us who proposed. To close with something our national poet said: 'National is the truth'. We all need to look into it together, looking at ourselves in the mirror. We need to change our behavior if we want the country to go forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Black. Mr. Saridis from the Centroon Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. We've been living for days of national tragedy. We have before us a mourning that should be managed in the next few days as it stands. The Centro Association wants to express its sincere condolences to the relatives of the people who have lost their lives extremely unfairly. It wants to express its thanks to the officials of the port, the army, the police, the fire department, for the self-determination they have shown on this extremely difficult day under extremely difficult and difficult conditions. Are there any responsibilities? There are. Are they responsibilities now? I'd say no just. They're responsibilities over time. Mr President, everyone knows these responsibilities in this Chamber. At some point, then, we should discuss them, but not now. Now the government must go ahead and give what it has chosen to give, stand by these people and support them with all its powers. One day we will come and have the opportunity here - and it is also a proposal from the Central Association - to discuss any responsibilities that may be borne by the government, by the executives, by the district, by the municipalities. What we have experienced, Mr President, was the result of the implementation of the policy 'Look at yourself and don't care if they are drowning next to you'. We have been experiencing this policy, Mr President, in recent decades at all levels in our country. I have been shocked, Mr President, for two days to see the picture, the description of this word in all the media. And I say it shocked, because I wondered what I've done wrong and I'm not so good that we're all here to get better, as it's worthy of this Greek people. Now it is the right time to make our decisions, ladies and gentlemen. Neutral time, we screwed up. That's the truth. Now, I insist, we must first say our staff 'to this end' and move on to the collective 'from now on'. I cannot accept, Mr President, that there is no scope for majority voting. I cannot agree, ladies and gentlemen, with the idea that as much water as water and fertilizer as it is to be cast on this land, this land will remain sterile. The Centro Association supports the proposal and the measures taken by the Greek Parliament. It's a start. Let us all see the responsibilities that we may have, each one of our side, let us consider, let us ask ourselves, and at some point move on to all these steps so that such a phenomenon does not happen again. Be well, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Ladies and gentlemen, does the Department approve of the proposal from the Conference of Presidents on the measures and initiatives to be taken by the House in the context of the overall effort to solidarity with the people?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u53	The department unanimously agreed. Mr President, I would like to ask you to continue with the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not really have - and I have to speak personally. With what has been heard in this Chamber, I will agree, but I think we should actually prove all parties, all the wings, that this will really be the last disaster. This means that we all have to agree on measures which are not 'philolaean', which, as we know, organised interests each time prevent each government from applying them. I said at the Conference of Presidents that it is typical of this regime that even the military dictatorship, which in some way did not need to vote, in these areas in Matti, in Zubery, etc. It allowed the arbitrary construction up to a few meters further from the beach. This means that the responsibilities are everything with different percentages of responsibility. However, it is up to us in the House to in practice relieve the country of these multiple disasters.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u55	However, let us inform you that the area was in the plan and was not arbitrary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u56	It wasn't arbitrary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, following the views of the honourable Members, we are continuing on the agenda for legislative work, and in particular the Ministry of Health bill. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 19 July 2018 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. However, since the bill was passed in the Standing Committee by a majority of four fifths (4/5) of the number of members, in accordance with Rule 108(6) and (1 ) of the Rules of Procedure, it is proposed, during today's debate, that only five minutes should those who object to ratification be given the floor. That's what the Rules of Procedure say. I propose, since the Department does not object, that all the rapporteurs and special speakers be given the floor and that, because there are also legislative amendments and Members who have tabled to support their amendments. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u58	So the Department agrees. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Kostopanagiotou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I would like to speak for half a minute on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u60	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u61	I propose before the first rapporteur takes the floor, if the ministers are ready for the amendments, to support them and to tell us - beyond the ministers, of course, because there are several Members - which of the Members of Parliament are acceptable, so that we too can know how we will be, whether we will be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u62	I have now discussed the matter with Mr Polakis and told me to continue with Mr Kostopanagiotus first.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u63	You said that we would have the floor once to put the amendments to the substance. That's why I'm making this proposal. If you think that you want it to be done differently, I have no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u64	Since Mr Paulakis has no objection, I have no problem. How much time do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u65	I will present the two of the five ministerial amendments, the other three will be presented by Andreas Xanthos and I will say for the acceptance or not of some...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u66	Is that 5 minutes enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u67	I think so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u68	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my speech on the presentation of the amendments, I too would like to express our deep grief and condolences to the families of all the victims of the tragic fire. I want, as the Ministry responsible for this part, to thank all the staff of EKAV and the hospitals, which actually stood at the raids that night in an unprecedented way. Thirty-eight EMCDDA ambulances, four mobile units, two special mass catastrophe treatment units were found from the first moments of the events in East Attica. They helped transfer the vast majority of the injured. Over a hundred and sixty-four people were taken over the first night and eleven entered intensive treatment units where bed was secured the same night, with the opening of new beds and especially the "Evangelism" and "KAT". I really thank all the staff of the National Health System, who, with all this, helped to escape more victims and to address the needs of the injured immediately. Of course, as Mr. Xanthos corrects me correctly, there are all twenty-three children who have been transferred to the "Children" who have also been treated. Until this morning, only four were left for hospitality. The rest came out safe for their homes. First of all, I will present the amendment with a general number of 1700 and a special number 123, which concerns a number of arrangements for the National Central Procurement Authority, which clarifys the contents of paragraph 1 of the Common Ministerial Decision, concerning the special fee for the central tenders relating to the resources of the ESDP. The employment status of the members of the Management Board shall be defined. The Chairperson shall be full and full-time, the Vice-Chairperson may be full-time or partial, and members shall be compensated only for meetings and not as salaries from the beginning. The other paragraphs regulate these changes. The seriousness is from paragraphs 6 and 7, where it is essentially added to the responsibilities of the National Health Operations Centre and the control of intensive care units. A three-member committee may be set up with a decision of the Minister for Health, so that there can be control of the units. An electronic platform has also been set up by EEAS, which must be in place simultaneously in EEAS, ECAB and EMCDDA, where the availability in beds is declared daily and the monitoring mechanism for the declaration of availability is also created, which has not been in place until now. This will start to apply from the private ITHs which have a contract with the EEAS and will move on to the public sector beds. I think that this will be more functional and safer, without even underestimating the work done by the EAW over the years in relation to units. However, we want an instrument specifically concerned with this subject, which is a point that hurts the system periodically, especially during outbreaks, etc. With paragraph 7, in order for the EMCDDA to be able to carry out its mission better, we regulate the issue of inauguration there of health scientists, doctors, who can on-call, how they can on-call. Because this is an additional task, the on-calls will not be counted on the number of doctors of the ESS and the military in their organic positions. So we'll have a successful 24-hour EMCDDA staff. This system will be applied progressively as soon as the mechanism is set up. After all, today the EMCDDA and the EMCDDA are working together. A key staff of the EMCDDA from doctors comes from specialists in this matter of EKO doctors. I think this will help much better to regulate the completeness of intensive beds and to respond to moments of immediate need when a mechanism is created that at all times we know what is available and where. The other amendment is the general number 1711 and special 130 where, under paragraph 1, we have to move until 31 August to zeroing the hospitals' delays, we are giving an extension of the legalisation of expenditure up to 30 June for those hospitals which have not completed the central invitations to tender. Paragraph 2 regulates an old topic that was then created with the availability for 'Amalia Fleming', where they had been retained before the closure of the above procedure and which we consider to be fair should be repaid. Also, due to the change in the character of the former YAN to the Center for Documentation and Costification of Hospital Services, a bureaucratic problem was created. Because of the reduction in the share capital it was not possible to approve its budget in the other legal form, so we are basically approving the expenditure it had made for the payment of the rents of its offices, the accounts of the EKOs, the remuneration of its accounting officer and the remuneration of the members of its supervisory board. These are the two amendments that I support. I would also like to say that we will accept the parliamentary amendment of a general number of 1698 and a specialist of 121, tabled by Mr Rizzos, which effectively solves the problem with a small part of the ancillary staff serving in the hospitals of the 4th HR. They are about twenty people who, due to the previous regulation, because they were appointed after the date that we set then as a limit for who is catching the regulation, are outside the two beneficial arrangements that have passed now and which practically extend their terms until 31-5-2019, which we believe will have been completed the tender of permanent posts. We also accept the parliamentary amendment with a general number of 1697 and a specialist of 120 in relation to the regulation of certain outstanding issues relating to the acquisition of a certificate of professional experience as a therapist. It regulates a number of issues in relation to the license for these people who have been able to practice them for years, but now we have been in some other arrangements that we have not all been able to complete. This is how this issue is solved. We also accept Amendment No 1699, and Mr Balaura's specific figure 122, which actually solves the problem that has arisen in a few areas of Greece - because in the other part there are no Commissioners again - who say that the pharmacists of hospitals who serve and the pharmacys in Europe cannot afford to have afternoon shifts in order to be able to serve the world. At some points there is a legal dignosis and some Commissioners do not issue the newspaper payment orders they make there. This amendment solves the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u70	Thank you. I would ask Members who have tabled an amendment to tell the secretariat that they want to support it when it is time. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u71	Thank you. I shall also present three other ministerial amendments. One is a general number 1702 and a special 124, regarding the reform of the administration of the National Helped Reproduction Authority. In our view, it was very distorted the way in which this principle was formed, which obviously has a very important role. Such principles also exist in other European countries, but not in the status of the independent authority. That's the problem. This has caused various malfunctions and a lack of supervision, in our view. For example, there was the prediction that the appointment of the President and the Deputy President of the Authority was by way of a presidential decree on a proposal from the Ministerial Council. We think these were exaggerations. There were malfunctions. What we are doing now is that somehow we remove the status quo of the independent authority. Of course, it will remain the area of intervention and responsibility for a very sensitive, I think, issue that has both the aspect of public health and the aspect of social sensitivity. There is also a very important part of a bioethic approach. We are institutionally providing for the representation of the National Bioethics Commission, we are reconstructing the Board - from nine to seven, I think it is more functional - and in particular we are making provision for the possibility of administrative control by the Health Inspectors' Board, that is, the Ministry's control mechanism, and by the Public Administration Inspectors' College. That is what I think it will help to enable this national authority to do better. That is the amendment. I would remind you that the relevant Committee on Institutions and the Transparency of the House has already been chosen. It has been expressed positively in the selection of the new president and the Deputy President of the national authority. It is Mrs Kalandaridou, Professor of Gynecology at the University of Athens, for the position of President and Mrs Foudedakis, Professor of Civil Law at the School of Thessaloniki, for the position of Vice President. The second amendment concerns financing through CEDEFOP, which is the management body of this project, namely the financing of a specific programme for the management, health care of refugees - migrants, the so-called 'PHILOS' programme. The duration of this programme is 18 August. What they have prepared is the migrating of funding from European programmes - the AMIF programme - to a programme financed by the national IDP. Due to bureaucratic malfunctions, the notice has delayed a little, and in this way we regulate the possibility of extending the current programme for another two months with a financial responsibility for the budget of the CEDEFOP until there is a smooth transition to the new 'PHILOS II', which will be financed by the national CEDEFOP. We therefore give the CEDEFOP Board the power to choose which 'open hospitality' structures, in which centres to support, receive and identify migrants and in which other public structures, which are currently supported by the 'PHILOS' programme, will remain their staff for another two months, until the recruitment of new staff, which will be twice as high as the present one. The notice will cover about a thousand four hundred people from the seven hundred who are currently serving and will have a spread throughout the country, both on the continent and on the islands. Approximately eight hundred of them - health professionals, doctors, nurses, psychologists, midwife, EAW rescuers, interpreters and other staff - will be concerned with strengthening adjacent public structures, and the other six hundred will deal with organised health and state presence in "open hospitality". This is a very important programme of EUR 50 million, lasting for a year and a half, and will enable us to increase state care in this area. And where, of course, it is necessary, there will also be cooperation with non-governmental organisations, with volunteers, with medical associations, etc. So that is the second amendment. The third amendment is Amendment No 1703 and Amendment No 125, which concerns arrangements and regulations relating to pharmacy. There are five points in this amendment. One is that it is regulated - and this was a consistent request from the Pan-Hellenic Pharmaceutical Association - the obligation to keep the time by pharmacies which declare extended hours. This has so far not been regulated. They had a disagreement with the institutions, and finally they were convinced that there must be a regulated landscape in the context of the liberalisation of the working hours, which, in our view, facilitates citizens' access to pharmacies, especially at the time of on-call and the better service of citizens. I think that was a very important change that the Pan-Hellenic Pharmaceutical Association had proposed to us for some time now. The second is that the indicative retail price for non-prescribed medicinal products is abolished. We had anticipated this on the basis that it would be a restraint mechanism, let me say, for pharmaceutical companies at the apparent trend in price increases in non-prescribed medicines. You know that it has been abolished by an earlier Memorandum Act of 2014, the valuation of these medicines. We saw, then, after a year and a half of implementation of the measure that it does not have any impact, on the contrary it creates problems for the citizens, who cannot understand why else it writes the box and others are called upon to pay. Because the indicative retail price obviously does not bind the companies, which had gone to increases. It is therefore abrogated. The effort we are going to make is through an Observatory, which we have set up in the EEO, to have a monitoring in this case and not to continue the current trend of growth, which was mid-termically around 20% in MUSYFA prices, even though in theory the IMF's idea was that price liberalisation and competition would drop prices. This has unfortunately not been confirmed and has, in our view, been an ideological obsession on the part of lenders. There was also a percentage of four thousand of the wholesale price charged by the pharmacist. It is collected by the pharmaceutical company at the expense of the pharmacist and renders it to the Panhellenic Pharmaceutical Association. It was, in other words, an assistance which, after the unification of the EFCA and the change of the old funds, has created problems of institutional regulation, which are now being dealt with and which is obviously in line with the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association. It is also optional, while so far it has been compulsory, to supply drugs, i.e. morphine and pethidine to private pharmacies. We believe that this was indeed an anachronism. There are today new substances and preparations that can serve people who need to deal with chronic pain. In any case, morphine and pethidine now mainly have hospital use, so we believe that this requirement was too much for the pharmacy to be put back on for these substances. They had to buy new ones and it was an unnecessary burden, in our view. One final element of this amendment is that a new presidential decree has come out, which regulates the pharmacies' ownership status. This President-in-Office decree stipulates that twice a year local regions place vacancies in order to obtain new permits. It therefore provides for this to be done twice a year, in January and June each year. As the presidential decree was delayed, June of this year was gone. There are many demands from pharmacists, graduates of pharmaceutical schools, who want to have the vacancies that exist on the basis of population criteria, to apply and obtain permission to establish a pharmacy. These licenses were frozen. We are giving the opportunity to make a further call now, in September, and to be normally the next one in January 2019. So, basically, we are trying to make it easier for pharmacists, young scientists, who have finished their studies and who had blocked the start of their business. These are the amendments. The last amendment has just come, but it has not been shared yet. Should we present it after we share it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u72	Yeah, when she's ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u73	Okay. It is another amendment that has been tabled now, because we have had a legal difficulty. He'll share you and I'll present it in a little while.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u74	Is it ministerial or parliamentary?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u75	Ministerial.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u77	You're welcome, Mr. Balaura.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u78	I would like to say, by agreeing and extending Mr Lambroulis' proposal, that, as you have done with the ministers, I think you should do with the Members who have tabled amendments. I propose that they take the floor for a minute, before the rapporteurs speak, to place the rapporteurs, if any, in the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u79	I mean, before we get into the bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u80	Are you saying any amendments that have been accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u81	Oh, no. You may not be acceptable. We want you to do it. Mr President, I suggest that you give us the floor for just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u82	I say this, that you suggest before the rapporteurs take the floor on the bill, that Members' amendments should be developed. I, at least, accept that as a Bureau, since the rapporteurs or ministers have no objections. Mr Balaura's proposal is to be accepted by the rapporteurs. Do you accept that the amendments should be preceded and that each Member should be given a minute's amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u83	Mr Balaura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs. I think this is a better process. I am talking about Amendment No 1699 and specific number 122. It is for EEA pharmacies, in which pharmacopoeias have already been employed, available by state hospitals in order to meet emergencies, due to a lack of pharmacists in ERCY pharmacopoeia. In order to compensate for the new pharmacists involved in the full-day operation of the EEAS pharmacies, such a regulation is necessary. Here I want to do, Minister, and a legal correction. At the end of the article, which reads: 'The validity of the present' shall be added to the words 'and the decision referred to in the preceding subparagraph, shall start retroactively from the beginning of the employment of those officials'. I'll give it to you. I will only say one sentence for why this amendment is being put in place. As we know, in many prefectures hospitals have pharmacists. However, since there were no pharmacists in the EPOY pharmacies, these people went and helped by on-calls at the EEA pharmacies. However, they could not be rewarded because their wages were cut by the Court of Auditors in many cases. It's about four pharmacies all over Greece. There was therefore no clear legislative provision and that is why we are moving on to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u85	Please, Mr. Rizzos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. The concept of the amendment, which concerns general health care, other than doctors, has already been explained. They are ancillary staff supporting the 4th Health Region’s nursing establishments. For objective reasons and conditions, they were unable to sign their contract in time - they were signed later - and they should be covered. That's right and moral and meets needs. All these people covered the needs of the 4th Health Area. That is the point of the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u87	Thank you. Mrs. Scouffa has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. I feel the need - and I apologise for making this aside - to express my warmest condolences and the support of the entire House to the victims of the tragedy. Also, because it happened on Monday that I was close to Kinetta, travelling on the highway before the fire crossed on one side to the other, I sincerely wish to express my admiration and warm thanks to all the Security bodies, who in good time and effectively evacuated the area, at a time when they had to deal with many different fire fronts surrounding Attica. I would like to support and ask for the vote of all the parliamentary groups on the amendment with a general number of 1707 and a specialist of 127. This amendment is tabled because according to L.4368/2016 the municipal councils were given the opportunity, by decision of the absolute majority of their members, to grant a reduction or exemption from municipal fees and taxes to more specific vulnerable social groups such as disabled, third-party, single-parent families, long-term unemployed plus the beneficiaries of L.4320/2015. However, since the validity of Law4320/2015 has passed, in place of the last social group, we add to the beneficiaries of Social Solidarity Income.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u89	Please, finish because you're talking for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u90	I'm so sorry. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, because we are used to committee meetings in this Chamber, we are all seated. However, the Rules of Procedure stipulate that we must speak up at plenary sittings. And now we're at a department meeting and not a committee. As a honourable Member has made a point on the phone, I have to mention it. Mr. Gregorakos has the floor. Mr Gregorakos, you have two amendments. You'll be placed for each individual.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u92	I have one amendment, Mr President. We have tabled an amendment with my fellow Members of the Democratic Independence. But before I refer to the amendment, I would like to make a comment. Towards knowledge and compliance, in the summer part of the House, no amendments were ever discussed and they were not accepted. Because it was the precincts. Secondly, there are not only Members of the House. There are MPs in the opposition. I say this because all the amendments tabled by colleagues in the Com mittee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection are usually accepted and none of the amendments tabled by the Com mittee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection are accepted. That is a view of politics. But because politics is not something static and changes, we should look a little at the future, because politics usually does not respect it, punish them very often. My amendment is a proposal that I made to Mr Polakis for patients in the provinces, when there is no available bed in the public sector, because they have actually paid from their wages the insurance system has taken their money, transferred to private sector units that have been available. I don't understand why Mr. Paulakis didn't accept that. The other thing is the day I've brought here. What does today's subject say here? There are too many patients who are uninsured and whom you have given a good solution. We had tried to give. They are uninsured and are in hospital corridors and usually these sick people are not taken by the Intensive Treatment Units of Hospitals who are and are hospitalized, and that is why I will be placed in the amendment you have brought to the EMCDDA. As you can see, these people who are uninsured are in the unclaimed. Our proposal with the amendment is: Since there are uninsured and insecure hospitals, they can have the beds of the EAW that the government has rented in the private sector. Why don't you do it? What logic lacks this amendment? You haven't commented on it at all. What logic lacks this amendment I have tabled to you? Greek citizens, on the one hand, have paid their premiums and are entitled to the EAW. And why don't we go to the private sector for a syndicate, and why don't we take the sick? If the public sector doesn't have a bed, where are we taking them? Secondly, what I'm telling you about uninsured people. Because they can't go to EKAB's beds. That's all. For your own amendments, I will be placed differently. I have now placed myself on my own amendment. For the others, I'll be placed later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Maddash has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u94	It is an amendment, Mr President, entitled 'Transfer of pharmacy to the limits of the same municipality', with a general number of 1713 and a special 131. The proposed amendment deals with the legislative gap in the transport of functional pharmacy whose authorisation is revoked by irrevocable judicial decision, because the land used in the establishment area is not allowed. These pharmacies lead to a forced and definitive closure, since, due to the restrictions on land use, they cannot be transferred to a neighbouring property within the same municipality and at the same time, because of the population criterion, they cannot be transferred to a adjacent municipality of the same municipality. Having said that, Mr President, the proposed regulation, which allows owners of these pharmacies to carry out a pharmacy in a different municipality, with the exception of the population criteria and thus to continue to operate legally, appears to be necessary. This is a regulation which, on the one hand, does not alter the rational and balanced distribution of pharmacy throughout the country in order to ensure the immediate and qualitative security of the entire population with the necessary medicines, as the protection of public health, and, on the other, deals with an understanding of the existing and undeniable problem for licensed pharmacies owners in certain areas with the prohibitions and restrictions on the use of land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, could I answer everything that has been said, so that you can keep it in mind and then put it in place?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u97	Yes, of course. The Deputy Minister, Mr. Paulakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u98	Firstly, the amendment supported by Mrs Skoufa is accepted. The amendment supported by Mr Mandas is acceptable. Legislation is accepted in the amendment tabled by Mr Balaurras. And Mr Gregorako - I was keeping it as a surprise to you, I wanted you to defend it first - we are accepting your amendment. And the reason is this and I will tell you why we did not accept it before: by this legislation that we are going through today, the way the control system is organised through the EMCDDA and the private ICU beds that have contracted, we can now accept it. Because as you would have noticed - because you have been following them - you have seen that in the EEA's new Single Health Service Regulation, we have corrected a number of things that they had to do with Intensive Treatment Units and what they can do in both the public and private sectors.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u99	I've agreed on it and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u100	I know. For example, for many years they have not been able to support the chronic renal failure patients in private ICUs. And that is what we are placing it in place now, and we are reintroducing it. There was also no central control mechanism in relation to what some of the private clinics in these beds charged, which is wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u101	We've agreed before. Tell your colleagues. We fully agree on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u102	But now we're setting up the control mechanism for this thing. Based on this - be careful! - We, as a government under the 'parallel programme', did what you said before, and you did the solution to cover the uninsured, and we deleted debts secured by previous governments and said that this was done in public structures. Here was a special charge. When a person is severely ill and is able to offer him health services, if there is no public sector, what you say is not true, that he is unclaimed. Because you're pulling it a little bit to support your position. In these critical situations, I don't think our doctors are treating us depending on whether someone is uninsured and not insured. Anyone who needs and is in a public facility goes in there. It's not true that he's staying in the unclaimed because he's uninsured. That's not the case. From there on, from this tank of insured and uninsured people asking for intensive beds, now on the basis of the regulation that we are downloading in relation to how this system of control and private ICUs are organised for beds paid by the EEAS, we can accept this amendment for this category. No, of course, an uninsured person can't go run tests, get hospitalized. So, because of the specific nature of the problem this is done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u103	The first rapporteur therefore has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA. I would remind you that everyone has the floor for five minutes and that is what the Rules of Procedure say - in order to proceed properly. Here, Mr Kostopanagiotou, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first of the two private legacy contracts we are debating today, that of the Malinaki legacy, which makes use of an important part of it for the expansion of the General Legal Hospital of Chania, is a good example of the way in which things were moving in the service and political leadership of the ministries so far. The starting point was the 31767 and dated 14-8-2008 public covenant of George Malinakis, George and Alexandra, published by the Monomele Court of Chania, in accordance with the practice of the meeting of 11-12-2008. The owner leaves, according to his will, all his property at the General Hospital of Chania for the construction of a seven hundred square meters wing. This property - mobile and immovable - is estimated at EUR 4.20,000. Execution of the will is a five-member committee, the respective Metropolitan of Kydonia and Apokoronou as president, members of the respective commander of the Hospital of Chania and three other members of doctors, psychiatrists of the Hospital of Chania. The General Hospital of Chania, with No.12 practical on 17-2-2009, accepts the public will from 11-12 as it stands. On 4-5-2009, three doctors are designated as members and the executing committee is now set up as a body, which meets on 11-5-2009. The Committee's work is under way with visits and asset records. The committee was legalised by the Court of First Instance of Chania on 29-10-2009. There's a check in a mortgage, bank accounts, bank lockers. The Ministry of Finance, Department of National Heritage, is informed. A ceremonial program was drawn up by the doctors of the committee in collaboration with the Technical Service of the General Hospital of Chania. A preliminary study was prepared with care of the Committee, the architectural resolution of the extension together with the pooling and utilization of existing spaces and facilities. Based on the estimates of the hospital's technical service, the new psychiatric clinic along with the addition will have 1,000 square meters of functional surface and 1,800 square meters of mixed surface. Note that it extends the psychiatric section, which is currently suffocated and housed in a building intended from the outset for a unit of infectious diseases. We note, therefore, that it took too many years to find ways of making use of an unpredictable amount of money for public good in the critical health sector. Slowness is given. We still have to assess it as a fact and, in particular, draw what political conclusions we have to draw. I do not think there is anyone here who thinks there is normal for money, for the executive committee to press the wills and for them to remain in drawers' plans and decisions. One could justify the delay if there were technical or legal problems, but there were no problems. What we must not do is to reconcile the overall situation of the Arab, with which the administration often operates, but also with the absurd and often excessive demands of bureaucracy. On this occasion I would like to stress that the procedures in the National Committee on Heritage must be simplified and accelerated, and that there should be more substantial and no formalistic control over the activities of all sorts of clearers. What we are stressing in any case is how necessary the existence of a political will combined with the methodicality and the labour force of the leaders, which characterise the current political leadership of the Ministry of Health. We are all living for it - and we are all living for it in the area of public health - for a different model, with wisdom, with methodicity and above all with incredible work that obeys the only purpose, the upsurge and the fixing of a truly citizen-friendly public health system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This model necessarily prioritises the health services sector by the State rather than private individuals, as it was in earlier times. This priority is combined with the regenerative odor which, as the whole of the country has understood, passes through the current political leadership of the Ministry of Health. It also combines with the personal integrity of their ministers and partners, which inspires confidence and will lead more and more of our fellow citizens to material offers to improve the conditions of care for the Greek people. Finally, always for the first ratification, let me make two more brief remarks. The first is that within the Malinaki covenant there is the condition to cover part of the operational costs of the new wing, as well as the possibility of creating new psychiatric care structures in Chania. My second remark, which concludes the first part of my report, is that I consider it necessary to thank the Executive Committee from the Step of the House, particularly its chairman, most respected Metropolitan Chania, for helping to complete the effort.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Kostopanagiotou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u106	I will not be late, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u107	Your time is five minutes and we've reached seven.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u108	But it's a suggestion, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u109	We are rapporteurs, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u110	The suggestion is five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u111	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u112	Others speak five minutes of an amendment and the rapporteur...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u113	The amendments were one minute and they were extended.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u114	Finally, let me say that self-evident. Following its construction, the new wing will be appropriately staffed on the basis of what is envisaged by the laws. The promise, like the commitment we have in the convention, is that it will be completed within twenty-six months at the latest. For the second contract, which concerns the ratification between the Kefalonia Hospital, the Greek State and the executors of the Mary's (Marie) Werkert regime, for the performance of work to support and improve the functioning of the new wing "Maria and Georgia Werkert" in the general hospital by the legacy of Maria Werkert, I have to say: The legacy was accepted on 25-10-2005 from the US $10 million in her will, which was closed by Maria Vergert. They were used and became a new ward of intensive monitoring at the Kefalonia Hospital. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The sum that has been raised - and that is EUR 1,200,000 together with the VAT - will be allocated to carry out some work that will upgrade the operation of the hospital. These work are: Renovation of the hospital's central sterilisation and replacement of sterile, 270,000 euros, replacement of two ambulance lifts, 85,000 euros, transfer of blood from the existing building to the new hospital ward, extension of areas I Aids and the creation of new LAGs, replacement of central low voltage electrical panels, general low voltage fields of the existing hospital, 215,000 euros. A total of 1,240,000 euros. In view of the above, I invite you to vote in favour of the Ministry of Health draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u115	First of all, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Fotilila, has the floor. However, I wanted to tell you, Mr Fotella, that we have given you a minute of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u116	Yeah, but they got more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u117	Only Mrs. Scouffa got more and I told her. It has, however, made a more general suggestion than the amendments. Everyone else was in one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u118	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u119	Why am I saying it? As far as possible, we must respect the Rules of Procedure. If we give more or less a minute, it doesn't change anything. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, after expressing my warmest condolences to those affected by the fires, I will only stand one minute at the genuinely shocking offer of our fellow people, from institutions, from clubs, individual people who make tails to give even blood for our suffering citizens, apart from food, clothing and medicines they collect. It is also shocking - and thank you - to help from abroad for the affected areas. Finally, I would like to say a huge thank you, too, to the staff of hospitals - many of whom came voluntarily without being asked, interrupted their permissions and they also came to give their help - to the EKA, to the firefighters, to the police, to the port, but also to the Armed Forces, who are making superhuman efforts to help these critical times. We won't talk about responsibility. This is not the time. This time is for unity and solidarity. The time will come to talk about responsibilities, which are there, and there are many. As far as the bill is concerned, we were generally in favour of ratification and, for one legacy, for the other in committee. We just asked for some clarifications especially about the legacy of Chania, which were not actually given to us. We have actually asked for the relevant documents of the legacy and the covenant, because there are questions for the committee to be set up to oversee the implementation of the donation of the late Malinakis, but we have not received any reply from Mr Polakis. Mr. Xanthos spoke specifically about Kefalonia and promised the hospital that the seats would be reopened. In fact, we hope and expect, Minister, that there will be no machinery in the ICM, but because of a lack of staff that the unit, which is so critical for the health of the citizens, does not have to be available to other hospitals. I now come to comment on the ministerial amendments. With Amendment 1700/123, which concerns the employment status of members of the Board of Directors of the National Central Health Supplies Authority, we are negative. We have told you, first of all, on several occasions that you have created a framework for health supplies completely bureaucratic and wrong. Proof of this is that you keep bringing adjustments to your agonizing effort to correct its obvious imperfections and to make it more functional. But here, what are you doing? While you have had all the time to choose the members of the EACH Board from the Executive Officers' Registry, through the EACH, you have not done so and you have deliberately now prolonged the temporary term of office of your party appointed to the Board so that they remain in your post. Under another provision of the amendment, you are transferring the auditing and management of the IMIs from the EMCDDA to the EMCDDA, namely to a three-member committee of the Minister. And you do so without explaining what the management of the EAW is assigned by the EAW which has both the know-how and the experience of the non-health EMCDDA. So we cannot agree with such regulations that are now necessary. We will vote against the amendment, despite the fact that paragraph 7 is positive, since the doctors obviously have to be paid. It would be fair for you to break the amendment so that we can support and vote for the right request in paragraph 7. Under Amendment No 1702/124, you are effectively abolishing the independent form of the Helped Reproduction Authority, namely the State body which lays down and monitors the scientific, legal and moral frameworks for those who provide assisted reproduction services and ensures women and candidate couples that the services they receive are safe and reliable. You put the authority under the supervision of the Ministry of Health for the exercise of its powers, changing the way in which the President and Vice-President are appointed, and providing that the Board does not need to be composed of teachers, but simply of qualified scientific staff. I think it needs, if anything, a legislative improvement. What exactly does "qualified scientific staff" mean? I ask because the painter is a skilled scientist, but he has nothing to do with assisted reproduction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u121	Clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u122	That is what I am saying, that is whether we should just clarify it, because all scientists are specialists. That's why I talked about the usefulness of a legal improvement. Also, what I do not understand is that you abolish the provision for participation by a psychologist and a person who has been subjected to medically assisted reproduction methods. We do not understand why this abolition exists. We understand that it is obvious that the SYRIZA Government has an allergy in general with the independent authorities, but I wonder what better it would be than party hugging with the independent authority. With regard to Amendment No 1703/125, which regulates issues relating to pharmacy working hours, we support that it should also be broken, otherwise we will vote'residents'. We say this because it has positive aspects by regulating issues relating to the extended hours of pharmacies - not least - with an earlier amendment by the government, obviously only after it has been reintroduced. In addition, we realise that there may also be public-private problems with drugs in pharmacy. Pharmaceutical clubs say so themselves. However, it must in some way be ensured that a certain number of years of ill will not be forced to wait for these endless tails of the EEA pharmacies in order to obtain the substances it needs for its illness. Finally, on No 1706/126, an amendment giving up CEDEFOP contracts, but also in general public bodies for individual contracts of employment, we obviously vote against it and consider you to be exposed to it, because, although there is a need for further rescue - and not only in the islands where hot spots exist, in all the islands, there is a need for rescue - but you are doing so completely in the wrong way, because both individual contracts and their extensions are done without any further administrative act being required and even the four-member committee of the refugee committee consisting of the Vice-President of the Government as President, the Minister of Interior Decentralisation and Electronic Governance, the Minister of Finance and the Secretary-General of the Government. These arrangements, moreover, create a new generation of contractors and expect them to be permanent in the future by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Of course, now this is a little inappropriate, because we are talking about 'future' and 'SYRIZA - ANEL government'. These two don't go together. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, too. Mr. Gregorakos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, I am very positive about the bill and will only comment on the amendments. First of all, however, I would also like to express my condolences to the relatives of the victims of this truly inalienable event, of the tragedy which has struck Greece and to say that only under conditions of consensus can we move forward. We must correct what at least in the previous years we have not corrected. Let's try to make it better for the next generations. I shall refer to the amendments one by one. I would first like to refer to Mr Polakis' amendment, but at the moment he is not in the Chamber and I shall go with the next one. With the Minister's amendment on reproduction, I am very positive. I think a correction had to be made to this amendment. You did well to go on like this. This amendment is also more flexible. I agree with all the amendments tabled by my fellow Members. These are requests that should have been solved a long time ago. That is the role of the Member. I believe that Parliament has worked positively today and the Ministers have accepted the amendments tabled by my colleagues. But if in the past few years in the summer - I do not know which law had imposed it - they did not accept any amendments, especially the MEPs. And you know better that the President was coming up and said that no amendment is being made today either by the Minister or by anyone. Here the subject of the amendments is a daily one. So let's go talk about the EMCDDA, dear Minister. When we were government, I personally disagreed with the existence of this institution because I thought it was a corruption instrument and I had sent it to the prosecutor. You're here, you've made the partnership with this ANEL format. Because the press said it was ANEL, he stayed there. I, as Minister, have sent it to the D.A. Four years, nothing has happened. Now what do we do? Instead of getting an agency to manage all beds and be an auditing mechanism for the National Direct Aid Centre, which is its object, they also build another agency next door, which is parasiticly working. It is only the cost of this centre that you see, especially with the amendment that the Minister brings today and puts in the way that military doctors, doctors and hospitals will not have unlimited on-calls. I don't know how many they are. I once saw that they invented a hundred and eighty. I said, guys, a hundred and eighty! And I said let's go to the D.A. I've sent it to the D.A. Voice voice in the wilderness! Anyway, we are coming today to welcome the operation of this EMCDDA body and we are making it stronger than the EMCDDA, and we are making it more auditing so that someone who wants to play their games more clearly than first and foremost legalised, and once they were not legalised. I therefore disagree with this amendment. I want the tests to be carried out at Intensive Treatment Units. There must be a control mechanism. However, there must be the control mechanism through the National Center for Direct Help, which manages beds usefully and transparently. In other words, I fear that if this amendment is passed this body called EICS will not manage beds transparently. We are going to the other amendments which I see really positive, especially with the arrangements for workers in the fourth IPP, but also with regard to the money that they really had to pay to nurses, doctors 'Amalia Fleming'. These amendments are positive and we support them. Mr Minister, you tabled an amendment ten minutes ago, which I think brings a great turbulence to the ESS. We could have discussed it and you had given it to us or brought it to the bill and discussed these because they are now suffocating. Ten minutes ago you testified her. I saw the amendment. Beforehand I say to you that I disagree with everything, because you cannot make a real sense of what you are bringing to this amendment. That's why you bring her ten minutes before the House closes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Aivatidis, the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to begin by expressing my deepest grief and grief for the loss of our eighty-two fellow citizens from the fiery tribulation that struck Attica and led to this unscrupulous disaster. I would like to say, Mr President, that for us, for the Golden Dawn, yes, it is time for the responsibilities. We have to look for responsibilities. Mr President, the government follows a methodology of trying to dismantle its responsibilities. It started with the speech of the Prime Minister on asymmetrical phenomena and we arrived at the report of the representatives of the ANELs on non-manageable physical phenomena. Sweden, too, is affected by a fiery forehead, fifty the number, without any human victim at all. With regard to the draft law on the ratification of contracts between the Greek State and the General Hospital of Chania and the Enforcement Committee of the Testament of Georgios G. Malinakis and the General Hospital of Kefalonia and the executors of the Marie (Maris) We will vote "residents". We will also vote on two amendments which are parliamentary: The first is the amendment which you have tabled, Mr President, among other things. The second thing we will be voting on is the amendment on reducing municipal taxes or charges for beneficiaries of Social Solidarity Income. In conclusion, I would like to say that there was not a single resignation, Mr President, on the issue of this great massive fires in Attica. This means that there is no sign of ethics in any of the relevant ministerial officials. We believe that there is an analgesia in practice, although some favourable measures have been taken, because clearly our fellow citizens need them and the state needs to take care of them. However, the loss of at least eighty-two people should lead to at least one resignation of Mr Toska, at least once there has been a risk predicted by the General Secretariat of Civil Protection for a very high fire risk. So the argument about'surplus' is not correct, so Mr Toskas should at least present his resignation, regardless of whether he will be accepted by the Prime Minister. Finally, Mr President, I shall refer to an issue which is a major issue in public health. It concerns Corfu, the disposal of mixed waste in the Lefkimis HYTA. It is a major issue for public health. The main ministers are co-responsible. The aqueous horizon is contaminated. Under HYTAS there is shallow water, there are studies and you should, Mr. Xanthi, see to it that you are the Minister of Health and Mr. Paulakis Deputy. Public health is at stake in Corfu. Of course, the MATs, which you have effectively activated at the call of the mayor, are keeping this disposal of the garbage in the HYTA. Public health is at stake. You are co-responsible, Mr Ministers, and you must at least see to it that some measures are taken to stop this crime. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u127	Since, Mr Aivatidis, you referred to me saying that I have signed the amendment - and of course I signed it - I must remind you, Mr President, that I was the Minister who reinstated the full and exclusive employment of the doctors of the ERC which had previously been abolished and the doctors who did not accept it left the ERC. I have also, while I was Minister for two and a half years, signed no private clinic or diagnostic centres. But unfortunately, the times have changed. And I say it "DISTANCE" in capital letters, because I myself am, I have not changed, but unfortunately the times have changed, the circumstances have changed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the Department that the Ministers for Education, Research and Religion, Economic and Administrative Reconstruction, the Deputy Ministers of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Economy and Economics, as well as the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs submitted a draft law on 25-7-2018: "University of Ioannina, Ionian University and other provisions". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Please, Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Lambroulis, take the floor as a special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. As mentioned at the beginning of the meeting, we voted in favour of this bill, the specific donations to the General Hospital of Chania and the General Hospital of Kefalonia. We want to say a few words on this. In committee, it has been slightly opened up - let me say the subject for these donors. And in the past there have been many Greeks, most unknown donors, who have supported through donations the needs of the people's family, our youth, either in matters of health, whether in matters related to their education, or in matters of restoration of structures - infrastructure, or in terms of culture, donating their properties, without asking for consideration, such as the specific donors mentioned in today's bill. In no case, however, is the problems solved, for example, by the Public Health System and much more so by the respective responsibilities and obligations of the State and the governments concerned. Nor can employers' crimes spread out of donations and any charities of some donors, who usually do not do so for their mother's soul, but because they expect something directly, whether it concerns the health field or some tax exemptions, and of course, such visibility and advertising, by means of so-called corporate social responsibility. I close with that, as far as the draft law is concerned. We had tabled our reservation - we simply wanted it to be recorded in the committee, but also, of course, on the occasion of the debate in plenary - on the General Hospital of Kefalonia, the donation that has to do with making use of part of the remaining amount of the donation to cover the needs of the hospital, for which we had no objection. At the same time, however, through this motion for a resolution, a project before us, which we have no information - we have said so to the committee - nor want to blame it - is, of course, about economic data, there are reports from the committees - and let us present our commitment to this issue. Of course, we are voting in favour of both articles, if you like, of the bill. I shall now proceed to the amendments. Allow me a short, for seconds, planning. Firstly, it is unacceptable because we are talking about an amendment industry. Secondly, there are articles or paragraphs in the amendments, where, if you wish, we agree, and elsewhere we disagree. For example - and I turn to the amendments - in Amendment Nos 1711 and 130, we dominate the vote in paragraph 2 and, of course, dominate the vote in favour of the amendment, because it is a return to the workers of the ‘Amalia Flemming’ hospital who have been made available. At the same time, however, at least we disagree with paragraph 3 of the same amendment. We are voting against it and we are saying it. However, we cannot do this because we will then be accused of not wanting to support paragraph 2, which is, in essence, the return of workers' money. That is why we shall be voting in favour of this amendment. We say this in order to record this and that paragraph 3 would be voted against if it were not in the same amendment, but it came separately. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President hits the warning.]] As regards the fourth Health Region, an amendment had been tabled some time ago - I will need some more time, Mr President - to extend the term of office of auxiliary staff, nurses, etc. but doctors, leaving this group of workers out. The amendment is coming. We shall vote on it, as we voted on the previous amendment. In that debate on the amendment, however, the Communist Party had tabled a proposal to the Minister to include these workers, in particular the 4th Health Region, the 15 - 20 people, making a legislative improvement with regard to the date. Instead of ending on August 1st, it was until August 10-11 to include these workers. Of course, the workers under the mobilisations and the pressures they have exerted have led to this solution, that is to say, a solution. A fundamental criterion for us and for voting in favour of this amendment is the need for workers to continue to have a job and, of course, for a further few months in substance, but above all the needs of patients, who without these workers there will be even greater deterioration in the already unacceptable conditions they face in the public health units of all levels. As far as Amendment No 1699/122 concerning the on-calls of EOPY pharmacists is concerned, we are not opposed to workers being paid for, of course, work carried out. But do we want to testify: First, is there a need for pharmacopoeia to be recruited at the EEA Pharmacopoeia? It exists, it has to be done. So when is it going to happen? [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Secondly, there is no excess of Pharmaceuticals in public hospitals to be made available to the EEA. It's clear and that looks like it. Nor do we agree, of course, with the need for double standards to be applied to the detriment of workers of pharmacists, because, in other words, the way to extend this measure to other sectors also opens up. As we also do not agree with the self-financing logic of both the pharmacys in public hospitals and the EEAS, in order to recruit staff for the so-called full-day operation. As far as Amendment 1700/123 is concerned, we would like to say a few words about paragraphs 6 and 7. The real problem with the ICMs - it has also been heard on a similar matter to Mr Gregorakos' amendment to the Democratic Partnership - is that due to state sub-financing, some fifty beds remain closed. This is not the case today, it has been the case for years by the previous governments. Why don't they open the hundred and fifty beds? They're waiting for beds, respirators, infrastructure. What does he need? Personal, doctors, nurses. So what should be done? The current government does the same, it maintains this regime, as does the previous ones. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing again and again.]] Regarding doctors who will be on duty in the EMCDDA: Good, extra on-calls will be paid. It is right that they should be compensated. But it's one side. However, the fact of subsistence of public health establishments which obligate doctors to many on-calls and the extras they will carry out in the EMCDDA is also, in our view, a fundamental problem. Here too, the sub-financing and sub-station phase is affecting both the organic health units and the functioning of the EMCDDA. In bad faith, Mr President, this is a poverty-management measure in terms of staffing public health units. As regards Amendment 1702/124, for the National Medical Helper Reproduction Authority, institutional changes are made to this principle. However, it is well known that in this area too, subsistence and lack of equipment in the public sector, along with the insufficient development of such units, actually prevents new couples from using the method of medically assisted reproduction, since it is a one-way approach to the private sector. So the proposed amendments do not change the situation and much more any institutional changes proposed or promoted by means of the amendment for the National Medical Helper Reproduction Authority. As far as Amendment 1703/125 is concerned, we distinguish paragraphs 1, 2 and 5 which define both our negative position and our negative vote in this amendment. As far as paragraphs 1 and 2 are concerned, there are, therefore, essentially rules on the conditions for implementing the so-called extended pharmacy time. In other words, it is about applying rules in the context of the liberalisation of working time, which is one of the aspects of support for competitiveness, which in fact favours big business pharmacists, to the detriment of small self-employed pharmacists and to paragraph 5, which abolishes the obligation to indicate to the unprescribed pharmaceuticals the indicative retail price. These are medicines that patients pay in full. Their number is constantly increasing because medicines belonging to the positive list are classified as non-prescribed, so that the EEAS does not participate in their compensation. In addition, under previous laws, their price has been fully liberalised, initially the highest, later the lowest. That is why, on the basis of our position on these three paragraphs, we will vote against this whole amendment. With regard to Amendment No 1706 and specific number 126 for CEDEFOP, we would like to take this opportunity to say: in paragraph 1, through which the total vote on the amendment is to be taken, the criterion is that workers should continue to have a job for even two months, as you suggest, in order not to make any further deterioration of the already unacceptable situation in the health care of refugees, but also in the public health units of the islands. In paragraph 3, we would like to point out that the extension of this law does not in any way mean that today's workers with individual contracts are being extended. In essence, the Government is prolonging the time that the legislative instrument will be used to ensure cheap, multi-exploited and recyclable workers between work and unemployment. This is where of course there is a need for permanent staff of the necessary qualifications, whether doctors or other staff. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u129	Thank you. The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks Mr Katsikis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stay a little on the part of the benefit of both donors and say that these people have done a good job, helped, contributed, benefited. That is the will, the will, the desire of every donor. That is why these two contracts under vote are charismatic and heterogeneous, without the donor's requirement of counter-compensation. The only state left for the Hospital of Chania and the Kefalonia Hospital, therefore, is to ensure the functionality of these two donations, making it both socially rewarding. I am convinced that we will do so through the sound management of the funds allocated in the context of the improvement and development of the public health system, which is already under way. The amounts allocated on the basis of both beetroots are more than six million euros, not least for the current situation. At the end of the binding work, as provided for in the terms of the two covenants, the above-mentioned two hospitals will widen the possibilities for providing care and reception services for both citizens and visitors in these areas. In any case, I believe that the present draft law of the Ministry of Health, which includes the exploitation of two legacy sites to upgrade the buildings and equipment of both Chania Hospital and Kefalonia Hospital, is another step in the right direction. Then I shall repeat from this forefront that we are in favour of voting for this draft law, since both conventions are judged in the public interest, and their content is a model of national benefit, serves and defends the good of public health. In addition, as far as the ministerial and parliamentary amendments are concerned, we are voting in favour of them once and for all, since the positions of the main ministers with regard to their content and the Members of Parliament demonstrate that yet another legitimate and just request takes the form of the legislation in order to define that framework that solves time-consuming problems and eliminates anchorages and diseases of the system. Mr President, to conclude, I cannot reply to Mr Gregoraku's comment, which is not omitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u131	I'm listening with care.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u132	And always be careful to listen to me, because that's the way it is. Mr Gregorakos, whether or not he is satisfied with the provisions of the bill, whether or not he is satisfied with our consent to the amendment which they tabled - in this case positively, because both SYRIZA's colleagues and I have thus decided positively - to describe the Independent Greeks as a form. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I want to tell him that as a doctor he knows better than I am not a doctor, that the form seriously harms health - often the patient dies - and is more connected as a medical term that is also a diagnosis for the patient. I would therefore like to make my own parallels to the party that he serves. As the patient dies from a motif, so does PASOK, KINAL, the Democratic Compact since it, as a motto, reduces his electoral force and from 50% to 5%. So let the future PASOK look at his house and let the Independent Greeks do their job, a democratic, patriotic, but also right, if that bothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u133	The special speaker of the river Mr Mavrotas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. This bill relates to two donations: For the General Hospital of Chania, the covenant of George Malinakis and the General Hospital of Kefalonia the covenant of Mary Werkerti. We voted in favour of the committees. The explanations were given to the questions we had from the ministers. But, Minister, you have sinned! In a bill of ratification of contracts of thirty-nine pages you bring more than sixty-page amendments, six ministerial and six parliamentary committees, which are essentially ministerial, but which do not have the Report of the General Accounting Office of the State. For example, is the framework for assisted reproduction so secondary that it will come with a ten-page amendment to a penalty? Why change to the regime? Are there any convincing excuses? Is your allergy to the independent authorities and your will to define all of them? Why change of standards to members? Why would it all be cut and stitched in your footsteps? The provisions on pharmacy are also important. But why should they come with a late amendment, and indeed all, in an article, so that we do not have to vote on it and not on it? Time has also been lost and you come with parliamentary amendments to extend them. In relation to the newspapers of EPOY pharmacies, which also come with a parliamentary amendment by Mr Balaura, our question is: Why does it not cover us with the current status under Article 13 of Law No 4052/2012? Any matter has arisen - and Mr Balaur said that there were issues with Commissioners, etc. - it could be solved as part of a clarification circular by the Ministry of Health. The fact is that a number of state hospital pharmacists in the framework of the full-day operation of the EOPY pharmacies have also worked and must be compensated - and that is not why - but on the other hand it is the responsibility of the administration, namely the executive authority and not legislative authority, to clarify the matter. Whilst, in any interpretative misunderstanding of the law on the part of the commissioners, the legislator may come in to amend and clarify by making new laws to remove any doubts and questions of bureaucrats. Is the question of the therapists also a secondary one, so that it can come with an amendment and, indeed, a parliamentary one? What is the case with the censorship practitioners about free school recognition will also apply to all from now on? Are there any other qualifications available in freelance schools, or are we simply enacting ad hoc for the occasion? The last amendment, with a general number 1714 and a special 132, which is a mini bill, was tabled at 11.30 p.m. and went up to the system at 12 noon. It contains quite serious provisions to deal with them so lightly. We strongly reject this practice which does not even give us time to look at it. It went up to the system at 12 noon and now that it's 12.55' should have read the 12 pages it contains, all the provisions and rule. I should like to close, Mr President, by saying that, unfortunately, there has been a legislative mismatch. Legislation and in particular sanctions operate essentially as hosts of the amendments. Without consultation, without sufficient time for debate in Parliament, without all the data in our hands. Fast track legitization. And that's why? To close holes in the previous clipping, however, they will open new holes, precisely because they are made roughly. That's how we get into the vicious circle of evil, without the beginning, the middle and the end. Only with patches. Attention, because within these legislative patches, within these legislative practices, if we unfold the thread backwards, we will often find the causes of tragedies, as will the latter. Apart from the operational centres and offices, the responsibility of this Chamber, which is thus not small, is not enough. We should all take it seriously, especially those in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u135	Mr Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. We were well placed in the bill for the two donations, for the General Hospital of Chania and the General Hospital of Kefalonia. I will take my time to talk about the amendments that have been tabled. We will once again denounce the way in which you legislate. At least ten amendments have been tabled. I shall start from the last amendment, last minute's amendment, Amendment No 1714. Here we have an entire bill that came to us an hour ago to assess it, understand it and take a place on it. We cannot do that, Mr President. We shall vote against the amendment only for the way it came to us, once again denounce the way in which the government legislates. I am going to Amendment No 1713, tabled by Mr Mantas, on the transport of pharmacy to the limits of the same municipality. When the pharmacies were opened, did they not know the land use that the municipality had there? Were land uses unknown when business opened? "Except for the population criteria," he says here. So this is, on its own, an argument? The rational and balanced distribution of pharmacy throughout the country is not altered. But, at local level, won't it be altered? We cannot vote for this amendment. We will stand down for the reasons why arguments alone are not enough, they are not enough, they are not understandable and, obviously, they may also photograph pharmacies. As far as Parliament's amendment is concerned, with a general number 1697 for therapists, I would like to say that it is a positive amendment. It's something missing. He's coming to fill the gaps of our legislation. But this is where what starts for the therapists should also be done in all the other professions. This, I believe, is understandable to the government and not just legislate for a special category of professionals. The amendment to the regulation of ancillary staff contracts other than doctors in the 4th Health Region is a serious matter. And that will be passed by the Centroon Association. With regard to Mr Balaura's amendment to compensate for these pharmacists who participated in the short-day operation of ECYY pharmacies, it is obvious. We'll support it. It is also obvious that Mr Gregoraku's amendment from the Change Movement is also described. We shall also support this amendment. For the amendment under the general number 1702. The Centro Association always says that all issues are better, better and much more just, when we have independent authorities. So here comes the government and effectively abolishes the independent authority. We will be voting against this amendment because, by abolishing the independent authority, it takes the opportunity to cut and sewage according to what, in any case, the Ministry is in the interest of us. The amendment on pharmacy, Amendment No 1703, the Centro Association will vote on it. It will say 'yes' to this amendment, and it will also say 'yes' to Mrs Skoufa's Amendment No 1707 on the exemption or reduction of municipal fees to beneficiaries of social solidarity income. We think it's right. We will vote against Amendment No 1700 for EKPH and EKPH and we will say'residents' in Amendment No 1711, not because we are opposed to paying the money to the people who worked at the Fleming Hospital, but because you are putting us in the third paragraph. What does the third paragraph have to do with serious accountability to these people for their work in economic exchanges for whom they have offered? We shall therefore vote on this amendment, 1711, precisely because there is the third paragraph in it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. On the list of speakers, there is a record of Mrs Theopevetou. Before giving her the floor, however, the Minister asked to speak about the last amendment. Here, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. I want to make a comprehensive speech on the bill and I will present this amendment which has been tabled late. First of all, the title ‘Other provisions’ was added in this bill. I agree with the climate which has been reflected in the previous debate on these days. These are days when the country is experiencing a great tragedy, they are days of distress, days of thought and fortunately and days of solidarity. The reflexes of society, of ordinary people, of bodies are very hopeful at this time and I think they will help to heal the wounds of this great tragedy, which is in progress, in fact, these days until the final record of the victims in our country. I think it is a general feeling that the services of the National Health System and its people, despite adversity, have managed to respond to the duty of early and effective care of the victims of this tragedy. There was a very good response from both EKAB and from the neighbouring primary care structures, the Rafina, Spata and Nea Macris Health Centers, and of course from the hospitals of Lekanopedi, who took the weight of the specialized care of the wounded and especially those who were in a very bad state and needed intensive treatment. There were no people who were invaded and didn't find an intensive bed these days. There was a superhuman effort. Right - I think - a reminder that people have turned from their licenses and have done their best to provide equal and effective care to everyone. I think it is our responsibility now to organise the availability that exists either in material or in health services in a structured way. Especially in the area there, to strengthen health centres, to facilitate, for example, people's access to prescriptions in their medicines, to have the necessary psychosocial support. There is a project at the moment, under the responsibility of the 1st Health Region, which provides for the presence of mental health professionals in the region, to meet the first urgent needs arising from this great post-traumatic stress. I think, then, that this culture of solidarity that is developing is a very important investment in social cohesion in our country, and I think that this bill also includes a sense of solidarity on the part of individuals and institutions towards public care. I think that we have now managed, as we have said in committee, to have a stable and constantly improving functioning of the health system. The health system heals very quickly his wounds. There are still problems, of course. I think these donations contribute to this effort to upgrade and develop the National Health System. I think it is also a sign of credibility and trust from the private sector in contributing to an investment and a strengthening of public care. Obviously for us too, it is very important that these donations take place and exploit themselves in the day-to-day operation of Chania and Kefalonia Hospitals. I would like to say a few words and a few comments that have been made about the amendments we have tabled. I think, for example, that the issue of the management of IF beds is very important. Mr. Gregorakos is wrong to think that management by the EMCDDA is going to cause a problem. The EMCDDA, the National Health Operations Centre, is the competent state body, which has the power to effectively manage this very difficult issue and not the EAW. I think that this idea is right in principle. So the EMCDDA can organise, coordinate, make the necessary interventions, impose, if you like, on hospitals and the structures of the ERC the rational and equitable management of beds. There are no hundred and fifty closed beds in the country. They've been halved. It's under a hundred, two hundred, two years ago. There's been a big investment in this field. They have proclaimed all empty organic positions of doctors, about two hundred, in intensive care units and intensified pups throughout the country. Now with the new system of rapid selection of ancillary staff through the lists of nurses from the health regions, we will be able to quickly meet the needs, because the term of nurses recruited through the CEDEFOP expires, so as to ensure not just continuity but also the possibility of greater development of IF beds, which are not currently being used. I shall now refer to the subject of medically assisted reproduction. Today’s system had problems and distortions and Jerusalem’s presenters know them very well. The status of the independent authority has not been safeguarded by these distortions and we cannot make independent authorities everywhere. No country in Europe exists such a status. We are in line with Europeans in force. This is a specific area, it needs a national committee, as we have relevant committees on transplants or other issues. We have a National Transplant Organisation, about on this status now. We're taking care to have administrative control. It was out of control and there were issues to be very clear. We therefore provide for the possibility of auditing by the JHA and the Public Administration Inspectors. I do not really understand what Mr Fotillas said earlier. The composition of the seven-member board. is: a legal person with experience in medical law and subject matter, a member who is designated by the National Committee on Bioethics, two doctors - and not generally scientists, my dear fellow Member - of the National Health System or members of the University of Obstetrics, who is experienced in medically assisted reproduction, a doctor of the National Health System or a member of the National Health Institution, a specialist in urology with experience in male infertility and a scientist of the National Health System or a member of the PPC with experience in medically assisted sciences, the subject of biology or biochemistry or embryonic or genetics. Where does this provision result from selfishness and party targeting? I would ask that there be criticism, but that it be substantiated. With regard to the criticism of the public units made by my colleague Mr Lambroulis, I must say that there is indeed a delay in the public health system. It's more private-sector units, but we have nowadays launched the development of a Public Helped Reproduction Unit at the University Hospital of Patras, in Rio. As far as the refugee is concerned, I also do not think it is a problem. The procedure is transparent, through the notice made by the competent body managing this money, which is the CEDEFOP. The problem is that, especially for doctors, we have an inadequate response, as well as for the other positions we are placing in the health system at this time. It's a difficult job to do. It's not a privileged intake. We are talking about people who provide services to vulnerable populations, with specific problems, defending public health. I think, therefore, that with the extension we are giving and the new programme which is now supported by national funds, by the national ILO, we have an upgraded state presence at all places of residence of refugees and migrants in the country right now. This is a very important investment in the health of society, public health, and I think it is also social cohesion. I conclude with the amendment, which we have given you, that we shall be tabling, under the general number 1714 and a special 132. It is also accompanied by a legislative improvement, which we have shared. This amendment has three or four points. The first is that it solves procedural problems and legislative gaps in the process of assessing and developing the doctors of the ESS and in particular doctors of primary care. The second is that it provides for the possibility of switching to a vacant organic position of doctors who have moved more than nine months to certain hospitals and, obviously, due to the prolongation of such movements, they are now necessary. Also, there is the possibility of transferring the former school guards, some of which were re-entered, as you know, to the health system and serving in personal positions. We allow them to be transferred to empty organic positions of the U.S. Auxiliary Staff Division that exist in hospitals. The Minister for Health is also authorised and there is no need for a Presidential Decree to make changes to the status of barren specialists, to the process of opening and acquiring specialisation, to the way in which examinations, to the content of the training, will be carried out, to the extent that the skills of qualified doctors, etc. will be certified. This is a proposal that obviously comes from the ERCF and will always be made by suggestion from the ERCF. I think it facilitates the process of upgrading medical education, which is currently under way. And one last change is to the National Committee for Rare Diseases, which we have formed with Law 4461. This committee is widened by four scientists, in addition to thirteen members, who will be invited, having a expertise and experience in a rare disease, because the permanent members of the committee cannot have specific knowledge of diseases involving, for example, five or ten people in the country - can be invited and contribute with their opinion to assess the centres of expertise and how the care of people with rare illnesses will be more upgraded. That is the amendment we are tabling, even late. The criticism of an incorrect legislative procedure in this way is acceptable. Unfortunately, however, there are very large institutional loose ends which we are trying to deal with in each bill, because that, in our view, facilitates the functioning of the public health system and the care of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u139	We shall give the floor to Mrs Theopevettus, who is the only speaker, because the other colleagues have taken the lead in supporting the amendments they have tabled. Then the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Kefaloyannis will follow, and I do not know whether any of the other parliamentary representatives will want to speak. Mrs Theopevettus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. I would like in my brief position - to inform the National Representation - as a minimum tribute to the Bertiet family to say a few words at these difficult times of general suffering and reflection that we are living in. In these hours, which are very early for conclusions, I too would like to express our sympathy and gratitude to all these people who are anyway involved because of their capacity, but also to all those who have voluntarily contributed to all those who have helped to ease the suffering of our fellow people and give their own battle of solidarity and offering. Our islands, the islands that I represent, i.e. Kefalonia and Ithaca, have experienced such tragic moments and fires, in 1988 we had human victims, but mainly from earthquakes, and in 1953, mainly, but also so far, in 2014. It's painful to see people lose their property, but mostly their own people. In these tragic circumstances, support and solidarity from all over the world and from the reputable homosexuals was important. A family like this is the Webster family. They have begun their social and beneficial work since the 19th century. Remarkable spiritual people, while engaged in shipping operations outside Greece, never forget their place and their history is intertwined with the fellowman and the benefactor. From whatever location or place they were finding and found, they always put their love for Kefalonia and Greece high and practically support their homeland in matters of education, health, sport, culture, financial support for students, and social needs where the state fails. So it became the Foundation of Georgiou and Mars Verotis. Georgios Wertertis was honoured in 1964 with a rare gold medal of the Athens Academy for his seldom offering and his wife, Mari Vergoti, wanting to do the desire of her husband, defined the establishment of the Foundation of Georgiou and Maris Vergoti, with which the donation of ten million dollars was made to become a unit of ITH in our hospital in Kefalonia. And now with the remaining amount the facilities, sterilizers, lifts, main electrical tables are completed in order to upgrade the function of both the intensive care unit and the hospital as a whole. Here I would like to say that this unit is still not working, not only because of its lack of staff, but mainly because of the lack of staffing of our hospital. For years there have been doctors leaving, mainly because of retirement, who, in recent years, despite constant recruitment, do not come to our island for appointment to the hospital and we need to see it. You know that very well, not just Kefalonia. In order to honour our benefactors, the intensive care unit must also function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u141	Good. Thank you, Mrs. Theopevettus. We shall now give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Kefaloniann. So far there has been no other picture from the Bureau. Mr. Mada, will you intervene?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u142	I guess not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u143	Good. Another parliamentary representative has not told us, at least until now, that it will intervene. We'll hang up with Mr. Polakis. Excuse me, Mr. Kefaliannis. Minister, would you like to say something earlier?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u144	Not after we're done, I'll see you together.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u145	Any legislation? Anything else?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u146	Some remarks to Mr Gregoraku's amendment. We'll change something.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u147	You got them ready? Will you give them now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u148	We'll get them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u149	Good. Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the tragic events are concerned, our rapporteur and I have also been put in the Chamber and for economic reasons I will not do so here, and that is why I shall be very briefly addressing the amendments. While listening to the comments of the main ministers, although our rapporteur has also been mentioned, I am unfortunately going to start once again by the fact that the amendments are more than the main body of the bill. And, unfortunately, we have amendments to ratification and even a sanction, which relates to donations and amendments, which are basically overdue, without, on many occasions, a substantial debate. For example, the last ministerial amendment, developed by the Minister a moment ago, was tabled just an hour ago, and you realise that it is humanely impossible to assess it effectively and to be able to get on with it. Of course, there are also amendments which often amend your own provisions, namely laws that the government majority voted a few months ago, and I think that is another sign of reluctance to legislate. In other words, when you come here and change your own laws, your presidential decrees, which had been passed either in 2017 or in 2016 or even in 2018, I think the National Representation understands that in fact there is an indirect confession of maladministration, perhaps some of which did not work in practice, but when we criticised you at the time you voted, you did not actually take into account our own remarks. Very soon I come to the ministerial amendment with a general number of 1700 and a specialist 123. There are, of course, some provisions with which we are positive, as we have said before. For example, paragraph 7 is in the positive direction. Unfortunately, all the subsequent other provisions are negative. If it does not break, we are negative, as our rapporteur has said, and, of course, we are firmly opposed to many of the things that it includes. With regard to the Ministerial Amendment No 1702 and a special number of 124, I think that the current government - almost the Minister said before - has an allergy with the independent authorities, and the reason now is that you 'experiment' the National Medical Helper Reproduction Authority. But we think you're doing this, because you just don't understand its function and its mission. Her mission, Minister, is to ensure women and candidate couples that the services they receive are safe and reliable. I therefore think that it should have an independence so that it can carry out checks, make recommendations to the government and, of course, gather information to ensure that citizens seeking in-house fertilisation services are informed objectively. We do not really understand why this situation is bothering the government and making these arrangements. That is why we, too, will be negative on this amendment. With regard to Amendment No 1703 and number 125, we are positive, especially as regards the rate of 4, due to the inclusion of the CSAF in the ECA. After all, this has been the case for too many years and is paid by the pharmacists themselves, and so far the CSAY has received it. Of course, we have some reservations and concerns about other provisions concerning penalties for pharmacies carrying out extended hours, especially those outside the urban centres, but also about voluntary and not compulsory supply of drugs by pharmacy. That is why, and in this amendment, we will be voting'residents'. As far as the amendment is concerned, with a general number of 1706 and a specialist 126, we will vote negatively. We believe - for reasons of economy, I will not go into detail - that it is the definition of a rhesophical policy which, unfortunately, the government has used to us with too many of the amendments. With regard to the amendment of a general number 1707 and a special number of 127, Members of the SYRIZA, we will be positive. As regards the general number 1709 and specific 129 tabled by Mr Gregorakos, we are also positive. With regard to the amendment of general number 1697 and a specialist of 120, of the SYRIZA, we are negative. And, of course, with regard to the parliamentary amendment tabled by Mr Manda, with a general number of 1713 and a special number of 131, we are negative because it raises a number of concerns about its regulation. In fact, we are wondering why he serves such arrangements, if you like. If it relates to a large number of pharmacys, we understand that, but we fear that it may be a provision which refers to very specific persons, if not to a particular person. And, in any case, the fact that he makes an exception to the population criterion - as you know, ladies and gentlemen, a pharmacy per thousand inhabitants is created and, in essence, there is this amendment in favour of it - and this, in itself, creates a belief that we must vote against this amendment. Finally, as far as Ministerial Amendment No 1714 is concerned, which, as I said earlier, was tabled a little while ago, we consider that it should also be voted against. We were unable to study it - to tell you the truth - in depth, because we actually had little time. I see, in fact, from the special report that expenditure is not even determined, because there is a general reference to what might result from this amendment. We believe that there too are some rhetorical provisions in place, such as paragraph 2 or paragraph 3d, and that is why we will be negative. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Another parliamentary representative, I repeat, has not said that he wants to intervene. So we can give the floor to the Minister and to close down slowly and move on to the vote. Minister Paulakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. I don't want to say much. I think that the draft law was analysed in the committee which discussed it and brought together the vast majority of all the parties in this House to accept the ratification of the conventions. I will only say a word about the Malinace legacy in Chania, that there were 5 million euros available for twelve years and practically, because with this we started to deal with '17, overcoming a laureate of bureaucracy and pluralism, arrangements, etc., we finally managed to unblock it. At the moment, the contract has been signed, it is ratified by law in the House, in order to begin the construction - at last, many years after the will of the owner - of the new psychiatric ward of the Hospital of Chania. The colleague, Mrs Theopevtatus, spoke about the donation of Werperti to the Kefalonia Hospital, which makes use of a remnant of over 1,000 euros to upgrade the hospital's infrastructure. This must, of course, give us some thought - that is to say, that we are drawing on donations and all these things - that a series of such procedures should also be simplified in the context of possible constitutional revision. Because it is not possible to afford large sums of money to upgrade hospital infrastructure and build new hospitals and pass a cost of bureaucracy. To start, one can eat from two, three to ten, fifteen years. That's a problem. It's a problem of our political system. It's a problem of our legislative grid. I have to say two words to Mr. Kefaliannis, who is now talking about graceful arrangements, etc. No, we regulate a series of fair requests from many groups and people, which reach a limit and require regulation. Unfortunately, in this life, time plays a part. So, do you want us not to extend the contracts of people who work for the service and health coverage of refugees and migrants? Since the procedure, which has been legislated for years, for how to prevent it, has gone far. Do these structures have to be vacant at this time? I'm talking about an example. To make use of the Malinaki donation, twelve, thirteen years have passed because of this legal and institutional framework, which we must change. It's a breathing term for our society to change these things. Only they are confronted with the Constitution and they also need constitutional changes in order to go ahead with some things. At the same time, though, if we are talking about 'Dynan', because I want to say this example again, in five months' time, in the last half of the governance of the previous government, in 2014, we organised and legislated for its sale. Then we got over the problems. Now, here, in order to make use of the donations of some people, we have to eat ten and fifteen years. For the amendments, I think we have all answered them. I just want to do this because I understood it a little differently, Mr. Gregoraco. Your amendment is accepted with the following legislative improvement. He can't pay the hospital, where the uninsured man went, the private I.T. The improvement is as follows, that the costs of hospitalisation are borne by the EEAS, under the contract signed with the private clinics that have ICU beds and on the basis of what is envisaged for the compensation of ICUs in the Single Health Regulation of the EEA. In this way, it's accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u153	Deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u154	I do not have to say other things about the amendments. I think Mr Xanthos answered in detail earlier, and I think we can move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u155	Deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u156	Minister, do we not have any other legislation?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u157	No, that's legal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u158	What you testified to. So, necessarily, we're interrupting until the bill is prepared with the latest legislation. We will have a five-minute break until the so-called'spider' is ready. Then we are coming back to continue with the vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health is closed: "Structuring contracts between the Greek State and the General Hospital of Chania and the Committee of Testament Enforcers G.C. Malinaki and the General Hospital of Kefalonia and the Executioners of the Mary (Marie) Testament Questioned by the Department: Can the bill be accepted in principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u160	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u163	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u168	Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Health: “Consolidation of contracts between the Greek State and the General Hospital of Chania and the Committee of Testament Executives G.C. Malinaki and the General Hospital of Kefalonia and the Executioners of the Mary (Marie) Wearer, respectively, and other provisions’, was accepted in principle by a majority. We shall now vote on the articles and amendments. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 1 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u172	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u173	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u177	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u178	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u181	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u186	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Asked by the Department: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number of 1700 and a special number of 123 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u188	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u189	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u190	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u191	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u193	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u194	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u195	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1700 and a special 123 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Asked by the Department: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number of 1702 and a special number of 124 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u196	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u197	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u199	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u200	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u202	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u203	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u204	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1702 and a special 124 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the section be asked: is the amendment accepted under a general number 1703 and a special number 125 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u206	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u208	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u209	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u211	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u213	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1703 and a special 125 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Asked by the Department: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number of 1706 and by a specialist of 126 in its own right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u215	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u216	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u217	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u220	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u221	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u222	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1706 and a specialist of 126 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Questions to the Department: Can the amendment be accepted by a general number of 1711 and a specialist of 130 in its own right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u224	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u226	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u229	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u230	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u231	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1711 and a special 130 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the section be asked: is the amendment accepted under a general number 1714 and a special number 132, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u233	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u234	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u235	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u238	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u239	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u240	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1714 and a special 132 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the Section be asked: is the amendment accepted under a general number 1697 and a specialist of 120 as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u242	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u244	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u249	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1697 and a specialist of 120 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Questions to the Department: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number 1698 and a special number 121 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u251	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u253	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u256	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u258	The amendment of a general number 1698 and a specialist of 121 was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Questions to the Department: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number 1699 and a special number 122, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u260	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u262	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u263	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u267	The amendment of a general number 1699 and a specialist of 122 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the Section be allowed to accept the amendment with a general number of 1707 and a special number of 127 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u268	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u271	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u275	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u276	The amendment, by a general number 1707 and a special 127, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the Section be allowed to accept the amendment under a general number 1709 and a special number 129, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u280	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u281	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u284	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u285	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1709 and a special 129 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Questions to the Department: Can the amendment be accepted by a general number of 1713 and a special number of 131, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u286	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u287	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u288	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u289	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u290	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u291	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u292	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u293	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u294	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1713 and a special 131 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We shall now proceed to the vote of the President-in-Office. Questioned by the Department: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u295	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u296	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u297	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u298	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u299	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u300	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u301	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u302	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u303	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Health: “Consolidation of contracts between the Greek State and the General Hospital of Chania and the Committee of Testament Executives G.C. Malinaki and the General Hospital of Kefalonia and the Executors of the Mary (Marie) Wearing covenant respectively and other provisions’, a majority of the articles and amendments were accepted. Questioned by the Department: Can the bill be accepted in the whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u304	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u305	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u306	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u307	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u308	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u309	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u310	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u311	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u312	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Health: “Consolidation of contracts between the Greek State and the General Hospital of Chania and the Committee of Testament Executives G.C. Malinaki and the General Hospital of Kefalonia and the Executors of the Mary (Marie) Wearing covenant, respectively and other provisions, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u313	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the Chamber to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u314	The Department therefore granted the requested authorisation. Ladies and gentlemen, on this point we shall proceed to the second draft legislation on the basis of the supplementary agenda for legislative work. Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing (incorporation of Directive 2015/849) and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 19 July 2018 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles, amendments and all. Does the Department agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u315	The department agreed. The rapporteurs now have the floor, with the first rapporteur of SYRIZA, Mr Konstantinos Pavlidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u316	Mr President, when will the amendments be presented?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u317	Mr. Mada, that depends on the ministers. If the ministers are ready, I would ask them to support their amendments, as we did in the previous procedure. Mr Pavlides, you have a warm request from the Bureau to give us your turn to precede the Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u318	Yeah, like we did last time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u319	Good. Where do we start? From Mrs. Papanatsiou?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u320	Let Mr. Kouvelis begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u321	So the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Kouvelis has the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u322	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one amendment which concerns...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u323	What's the number?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u324	I don't have the number, Mr. Katsiki. But I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u325	It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u326	This amendment concerns the supervision of the Construction Cooperative of Permanent Officers of the Hellenic Army who remains at the Ministry of National Defence and continues to be governed by the provisions of the forced law of Law No.564/1968. Within the last quarter of the period referred to in the preceding subparagraph, the Governing Council of the building cooperative in question shall harmonise the statutes of its operation with the provisions of Article 39 of Law 4030/2011, otherwise paragraph 14 of that Article shall apply with the registration of the statutes in the relevant register of the competent court at the place of court, as provided for in the law. That's the setting. We are essentially asking for an extension in order to bring about harmonisation and then implement nr 4030/2011. I have two other amendments. One concerns the calculation of dividends paid by the Equity Fund and the Equity Fund. It is about harmonising the operation of the Shared Navy with regard to the payment of dividends following the change in the United Nations wage. I hope the amendments are in your hands. Another amendment concerns the amendment - supplementing the provisions of Article 26 of L.4258 and of Article 32 of L.4361 on the completion, firstly, of the necessary work and testing for the certification and operational integration of the submarines 'PIPINOS', 'MAROZOS', 'KATSONIS' and 'OKEANOS' and, secondly, the programme for the construction of torpedoes with numbers 6 and 7 respectively. If you need any explanation from me, I'm at your disposal. I would simply like to point out about these two amendments that they are in progress, the specific work, both for the submarines mentioned above and for the torpedo-building programme. The Ministers responsible have approved the grant of this operation with the sums of 30.1 million in the case of torpedoes and about 35 million in the case of additional work for the abovementioned submarines. I want to give you an explanation about the delay. You realise that we are urgent to complete these procedures for reasons which are obvious and obvious and I call for their approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Papanachiu, will you talk now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u328	I'd rather be posted after Mr. Pavlides, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u329	Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Kuveli a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u330	On the amendments, Mr Vardalis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u331	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u332	Sure. And that can be done by anyone else who wants it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u333	I would also like to ask the Minister something, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u334	Let us give the floor to Mr Bardalis, who is ahead of us, and then you will take the floor. Here, Mr Vardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to ask you about the amendment of a general number 1701 concerning the Building Cooperative of the Greek Army officers. At the end of the amendment you say that it will be referred to the general assembly of the cooperative in order to make the decision. However, on the basis of Article 12 of the Statute of the same cooperative we are discussing, the general assembly does not exist as a supreme body in the cooperative. Only the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board shall be appointed. So what exactly is it now? Is what it says in the amendment? Will the statutes be amended in a second phase? We would like to know exactly what we are voting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u336	Mr. Kouveli, if it's easy to collect all the questions and answer the whole question. Mr. Maniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u337	Minister, this amendment you tabled for the submarines is referred to in Article 26 of L.4258 of 2014. It is the contract signed by Vangelis Venizelos as Minister of National Defence. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u339	It is precisely this contract for the three submarines denounced by the current Minister of National Defence. There was a whole series of complaints from Mr Kammenos. I now read in the rapporteur's report: In the submarines 'PIPINOS', 'OKEANOS' and 'MARROZOS', the fully or partially executed tests successfully certify the respective systems of submarines and therefore, in the present situation, they can meet a significant part of the operational requirements. Under the submarine ‘KATSONIS’, the final stage of carrying out acceptance tests is under way in the proper shape of the systems of the vessel with satisfactory results so far. All consistency - if I understand - politically, on the basis of this amendment you are tabling as the Ministry of National Defence, do you think that the 2014 Convention, signed by Venizelos, was a benefit to the Armed Forces and the Greek public contract, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u340	Good. Thank you, Mr. Maniots. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u341	Mr Maniotis, I would tell you, with a very friendly attitude, to avoid this dilemma that has emerged from the end of your speech. As far as the content of the Convention is concerned, I have not heard exactly what the Minister for National Defence, Mr Kammenos, said, but I would say to you that, regardless of criticism, objections concerning problems of the original contract, what I want you to keep from today's debate is what is stated in the explanatory statement. The explanatory statement speaks today of the success of the respective systems. This, as you can see very well - and that is why I cannot interpret your question - does not go into the content of the original contracts. And if you want, this is another conversation, which you would be happy to have with me or the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Kammenos, to whom you referred. As far as my colleague's point is concerned, I would like to say this: Mr Colleague, what the Ministry has done is to transpose the provision of this law as well as the general assembly. It is true that the general assembly - as far as I am aware - is concerned, despite the fact that it does not belong to my exclusive competence - does not work. The board of directors is working, to which I wish to tell you that it is also a representative of the following military personnel, of course from the pensioners' ranks. That's what I wanted to say. Of course, I also come to answer a question which has not been raised, but I feel obliged to make it clear. You'll ask me why this arrangement comes only for the Naval and Air Force Equity Fund, and it doesn't come for the Drought Army. There is one issue that needs to be addressed in terms of matching the police with the military. In particular: Previously, police officers from the rank of police director - in line with the colonel's rank - received the dividend corresponding to the rank of general, without the Brigadier's intermediate rank. This is one issue, because there is a slight difference, which will be dealt with and brought to an end by another amendment. As far as your basic question is concerned, however, what has to do with the general assembly, things are as they are. More precisely, because it does not work despite the prediction, at this time with absolute honesty I tell you that I have no more evidence. But I will be happy to see it, and I will be able to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We will begin with the speeches of the rapporteurs and speakers, with Mr Pavlides first from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u343	Mr President, I am sorry, but I would like to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u344	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u345	I have omitted to refer to a legislative improvement in the draft law. In the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of Articles 1 and 2, the words ‘either the ordinary budget or’ shall be deleted and the arrangement shall be made directly by the second reference.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u346	Mr Pavlides, you have the floor and thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the report and on the main issue, I would also like to talk about these difficult, nightmare moments that we lived in Athens and the country at night. It is a heavy national tragedy, a great natural disaster, with extreme, exceptional tension, weather phenomena, with dozens of lives and other living beings, with a great disaster in property and environment. I think that the time of collective and time-consuming responsibility will come for the growth model that has been selected for decades in this country and for any other responsibilities that proves to exist. I would also like to express my warmest condolences to the families of the victims, to speak of the need for direct and consistent support for initiatives, but also of the brave measures of solidarity, relief and relief to the affected, which the government has already announced, which, of course, we all know, unfortunately do not bring back the dead. And there must also be acknowledgment and gratitude for the men and women of the Fire Corps, the Port Authority, the Security Bodies, the EMCDDA, the medical staff, the Armed Forces, the tens and hundreds of anonymous volunteers who have made a decisive contribution to reducing the losses and saving hundreds of people. By entering the bill, I would like to say that it aims to improve the existing institutional framework, as the directive incorporated, includes arrangements in line with the revised recommendations of the Financial Action Group and the standards developed within other international bodies. It also seeks to create a regulatory environment in which, on the one hand, undertakings develop their activities without having a disproportionate cost of compliance and, on the other, the processing of personal data is considered to be a matter of public interest. Cooperation and exchange of information between competent authorities shall be strengthened. The existing framework shall be updated and upgraded by establishing a real beneficiaries central register. The material of the draft law is divided into two parts for reasons of compliance with specific legal principles concerning the incorporation of a directive into national law. In Part 1, Articles 1 to 46, it includes the incorporation of the provisions of the Directive, the basic conditions relating to the purpose and purpose of the law, the basic offences, the persons liable, the institutional issues relating to the identification, the role and functioning of the competent authorities on issues of dirty money laundering and terrorist financing. Appropriate customer due diligence, information on the actual beneficiary, reporting obligations and a prohibition on disclosure, collection, storage and provision of information, protection of personal data and statistical records, criminal and administrative penalties, and seizures and confiscation of assets shall be specified. In particular, I would like to mention the most important points, as expressed in the existing first part of the draft law. Part One defines the scope of the law and the definitions of money laundering and terrorist financing are given. It contains the basic definitions of concepts used under the Act in line with the relevant definitions in Article 3 of that Directive and amends or removes certain concepts, as reflected in Article 4 of Law No.3691/2008. It is also provided for the definition of the actual beneficiary, with a view to identifying the identity of any natural person who holds, or exercises, control over, the natural person. In order to ensure effective transparency, the wider range of legal entities established in the country shall be covered. The verification and verification of the identity of the real beneficiaries shall also be extended to legal entities holding other legal entities and the persons liable seek ‘the person’ or ‘the natural persons’, which ultimately exercise ownership control. The exact offences of dirty money laundering are defined in accordance with the provisions in force. It defines the persons liable. For example, credit institutions, financial institutions, accountants and companies of the oathed accountants and auditors registered in the public register of the Committee on Accounting and Control, as well as private accountants, accountants and accountants - tax advisors, notaries and lawyers, where, acting on behalf of and on behalf of their clients, they participate in financial transactions or transactions in real estate, casino brokers and casinos operating on board vessels in Greece or under the Greek flag, traders and auctioners of high value goods when the transaction takes place in cash of at least EUR 10,000, as well as pawners and silvers. It shall also designate the competent authorities responsible for compliance and the obligations of natural persons, as defined by the law, and the categories of persons liable to be supervised by each authority. It describes in detail the responsibilities of the Ministry of Finance's Directorate-General for Economic Policy, which will act as a coordinating body in the application of the provisions of the law. Article 8 concerns the Strategy Committee and its new responsibilities. In more detail, the responsibilities of the central coordinating body, which is the Ministry of Finance, are redefined in relation to the implementation of the provisions of the law to be adopted and the way in which the Strategy Committee, set up in the Ministry of Finance, is set up and the mechanism that determines at national level the strategy for these actions, are redefined. The Committee includes, among other things, the Director-General for Tax Administration of the ADP, the Director-General for Customs and Special Taxation of the ADP, as well as the Special Secretary of the Financial Crime Corps. The cooperation framework shall be redefined in relation to the exchange of confidential information between the authority and the co-authorities, the AACC and the IAEA. In addition, the provisions of Article 25 set out the following concerning offences of tax, customs and other control offences of the IORP: Firstly, the IAEA also submits at the beginning the audit reports or conclusions on money laundering from criminal activity and can now cooperate with the authority by conducting joint investigations into cases of common competence. Second, the DUs, the audit centres and customs reporting to the authority, while informing the Directorate-General for Tax Administration of the AUTO and the Directorate-General for Customs and Excise Taxation of the AUD for breaches of tax and customs legislation falling under the main offences with effect from 26 June 2017 and for amounts exceeding EUR 50,000. The first part also refers to the private sector consultation to deal with money laundering and terrorist financing. The customer due diligence measures and the verification and certification of personal documents, such as identity, as well as full-time documents in cases of authorisation, shall also be specified. It is clearly stressed that such procedures are explicitly prior to the conclusion of business relations or transactions. It also provides for increased due diligence measures in cases of cross-border transactions and relationships with politically exposed persons and transactions with persons from third countries, defined at high risk, for money laundering by the European Commission. The provisions of Article 20 provide for the following: Establishment of a Real Beneficiary by the corporate and other entities based in Greece. Non-compliance with that register entails administrative penalties, such as the suspension of the issue of tax information to the responsible legal persons and entities and the imposition to them by a decision of the competent authority of a fine of EUR 10,000. In the case of non-compliance or relapse, the fine shall be doubled. The establishment of a register of Actual Rights, in the General Secretariat of Information Systems, which is linked electronically to the VAT of any legal person or legal entity. This register may be linked to the General Registry of the Ministry of Economy and Development. Third, provision is made for a Special Register of Real Trustees by Trustees. Access to the register shall, except for the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority by Judicial Income, and public prosecutors or other authorities with investigative or audit powers in the area of money laundering, basic offences and terrorist financing, without any restriction as well as the competent authorities and persons liable solely in the context of the implementation of the ‘delegation’ measures. The data shall be transmitted to the respective authorities of the Member States of the European Union upon a reasoned request. A special procedure shall also be laid down to report suspected events relating to tax or customs matters. It shall be prohibited to disclose information on suspected transactions and money laundering. The first part excludes credit institutions, financial institutions and debtors established in Greece and branches established in a third country, provided that they fully comply with the conditions and procedures at group level. Pursuant to Article 44 of the Directive, the process of collecting and processing integrated statistical data by public bodies is also envisaged, which is an important prerequisite for preparing risk assessments and evaluating the effectiveness of the existing system to tackle money laundering and combating terrorist financing. Cooperation and exchange of information between the Authority and other competent authorities and the Financial Information Units of other Member States of the European Union are also defined. The obligation is laid down for the persons liable to take measures to identify and assess the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing, taking into account risk factors mentioned in the provision. It also provides for the establishment of an internal procedure for complaints by workers of infringements of the provisions of this Law by persons liable, through an anonymous and independent channel, in order to ensure the protection of the complainant. It is provided for the appointment of a manager in the case of credit institutions and financial institutions, in which employees will report any suspected transaction, and for internal procedures to ensure the uninterrupted submission of a suspected transaction, if the conditions for its submission are met. In addition, it is laid down that those provisions may also apply to other persons liable by decision of their competent authorities. It also provides for the definition by each group of directors of the largest group as coordinator in order to ensure compliance with the obligations of this law by the individual companies of the group and also provides for the definition of the obligations of groups and individual companies by decision of the competent authorities. Procedures are provided for the legitimisation, detection, confiscation and confiscation of proceeds from criminal activities and for the financing of terrorism and for the confiscation of organs and proceeds of crime in the European Union. The provisions of Article 50 of Law 3691/08 on the access of judicial authorities to archives and data are transposed into the new law. A set of administrative measures and sanctions which the competent authorities may impose on the persons and members of the board of directors, managers and officials of the persons liable for infringements of the obligations under this Regulation of 2015, in 847, and the relevant decisions adopted under their authority concerning the prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing offences shall be adopted. In the second part, now, Articles 47 to 55 include the organisational provisions for the Criminal Income Legalisation Authority, as well as transitional and repealing provisions. The law also includes, as an integral part of, two examples with indicative lists of factors and types of evidence regarding the existence of potentially lower and higher risk of money laundering from criminal activities and terrorist financing, respectively. In summary, it sets out the purpose of the authority, which is now renamed to the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority by Criminal Activities. It is provided for in the second part, as in this legislative framework, that the Authority is composed of three separate units with distinct competences, staff and infrastructure under the joint chairmanship and the necessary quorum and decision-making process are regulated. The powers of the units of the authority shall be defined and the access to each form of a public authority or body and shall be repeated without any substantial differences. It shall specify the procedure for the secondment of officials to the beginning. The duration of the secondments shall be three years and may be renewed upon a proposal by the President of the Authority. It includes transitional provisions relating to the maintenance in force of the regulatory acts implementing Laws 2331/95 and 3691/2008 and to ensuring continuity of the principle of Article 48 of this Law. Finally, two months shall be allowed to appoint the additional members at the plant of the authority to the new posts set up by this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr. Pavlides. Mrs Papanatsiou had asked for the floor after Mr Pavlides, to be placed on the amendments. Here you go, Mrs. Papanatsiou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u349	The amendment under general number 1712 and a special number 257 have some articles. The first article concerns the amendment of the compulsory law, of Law 1920/1939, concerning the Zappeion. The process of raising members of the Olympian and Heritage Committee is being modernised, in order to achieve a greater linkage of the important legacy of the great national benefactors of the Gospel and Constantine Zapas with the social actors, in order to highlight the history and work of the country, as well as to strengthen the links and the social and economic life of the country. I should like to mention, among other things, that, apart from the chambers provided, a representative of the Municipality of Athens, the Region of Attica and professional bodies proposed by the service of the public institutions to the Ministry of Finance is provided for. The position of the Secretary-General of the Committee, which falls within the positions of executive management bodies, for which L.4369/2016 is applicable, is defined as follows: In other words, it will be elected by the administration register to modernise and make better use of the possibilities of the very important legacy of the benefactors. We believe that the times have passed which a board of directors, which is not even rewarded, with a term of office, can command all this great piece called "Zapeion". And on that basis a Secretary-General, who will have all these possibilities, will be able to make use of some plans. In this sense, it will make better use of the legacy of the benefactors. Also, because the term of office of the board of directors was three years and without remuneration, we are doing the two-year term instead of the three-year term that was in place today. And we have a transitional arrangement for this council. The second article relates to the ILO. Following the decisions of the Council of State which considered this provision to be unconstitutional, the great extent of tax evasion due to vagueness in the wording and the amendment of the provision is necessary in order to allow the relevant provision to be applied by the IORP within its competences for economic crime. In this case it may open the accounts for the benefit of the audit. The third article is about the heated tobacco product. In the first part, all the heated tobacco products on the Greek market can be legalised, with the standard that has been in place so far. The second paragraph of the provision also extends the possibility that tobacco industries will already be able to give tobacco to their employees. Now they also have the possibility of supplying heated products to workers, instead of the tobacco they have given up to now. Fourthly, it has two arms to do first of all - in view of the need for the auditors to do at the Ministry of Finance and the Independent Public Revenue Authority and for as much security and protection as possible in their work and for the cases that we had on the islands and, most importantly, in the tourist areas and last year and this year, some - by imposing very strict penalties where these officials suffer physical damage, threats or exacerbation when carrying out their duties, in order to limit or suppress them more effectively. In the same article, the second paragraph creates a full system of legal protection for civil servants of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, which has so far not existed in cases of examination or prosecution in the performance of their duties, which may be represented by a member of the Legal Board of State, if they are chosen or represented by a lawyer of their choice while covering their expenses. I would like to point out here that if they are not justified, there is no right to compensation. The fifth relates to the amendment of the third Annex to Article 196(7) of L.4389/2016, i.e. to the TSE. Here we have the Hercules Pigs, which are now coming to ETA, which will make use of them accordingly. It is an area that hosts uses of a socially beneficial character and will use them accordingly in the local society of Heraklion. Also, the last article, although it solves issues of the ECO, because we are not very pleased with its wording, we will withdraw it and revert it to the next phase.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u350	What article is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u351	The last article.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u352	What about increases in administrative earnings?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u353	Madam Secretary, this is the last article in the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u354	Yes, the amendment. I am presenting for the Minutes the legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u355	All right, so the article will be withdrawn here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u356	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u357	Mr. Maniot, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u358	I would like the floor for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u359	I too, Mr President, would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u360	All right, let's give Mr. Maniots the floor. Soon, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u361	Mr President, can I have the floor to read out the legislative improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u362	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u363	The last article of the amendment entitled 'Amendment of Article 28 of the n. 4354/2015’ is deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u364	For wage increases, Mr President, the Presidents, the CEOs and the existing ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u365	Mr Maniatis, you have the floor to ask the Minister, as you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u366	Madam Minister, if I understand correctly, you are deleting the entire article, on the basis of which the salaries of presidents and advisors were to be increased from EUR 4.631 to EUR 7.483. This article is deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u367	That's what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u368	No, I'm reading from page 36. Is that what I read? This article you're withdrawing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u369	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u370	Yes, you're withdrawing it. The second question concerns the Zappeion. I must say that I did not understand the documentation at all and I want an explanation. You told us that for so many years the Zappeion could not function properly, and that is why you consider it appropriate that there should be a place for an unpaid Secretary-General, for which, on page 37, is provided for in the report by the General Accounting Office of the State, EUR 56 000 annually. I understand very well that you are creating an additional position of Secretary-General for Zappeion, where the costs for the Greek State of the remuneration of this person will be EUR 56,000, because you think the Zappeion is not working properly so far and you want to improve its operation? These are the two questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u371	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u372	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u373	And you, Mr. Sandy?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u374	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u375	Let's get the questions together. Come on, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u376	I will be brief, Mr President. Madam Minister, I, too, would like to ask you an extension of the Zappeion question. This amendment, therefore, provides for expenditure of EUR 56 000 for the establishment of an organic position called the 'Secretary-Secretary-Speaker', but without any qualifications and conditions being laid down. How do you earn without qualifications and conditions and cost, so to speak, the work of the man who will take over the new post at EUR 56,000? I'm sorry to say this, but is this Zappeion position so complicated? I don't think they're doing nuclear physics or experiments at the CERN. Is the amount of EUR 56,000 reasonable to run the Zappeion a year? I find it unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Madam Minister, will you answer now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u378	Now, Mr President, there are no impressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u379	Because we're in the process of positioning the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u380	Now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u381	I'll give you the floor. I'm just suggesting something else. If you don't accept it, no objections. Answer it, Alas. As the rapporteurs, perhaps, raise the issues of the amendments, you will also be able to answer them in the end. If you want now, alas. Two minutes, I think it'll be enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u382	Wait a minute, Mr. President. We need to clear up some things. First of all, everything that is going on in Zappeion has nothing to do with budget and public expenditure. It's about the legacy of the Zappy. Even the salaries and pensions of workers in Zappeion are paid by the legacy. They're not burdening the state budget. We're making this clear. From that point on, the position of the Secretary-General was in the organogram of Zappiio. It's nothing new.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u383	But he's never been paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u384	He's never been paid. We think it needs to be paid, and we don't want to appoint any of our own, none of our best friends. We want the Secretary-General's choice to be made through the register of public administration officials, as is the case with all the Secretary-General. And these are precisely the conditions for the Secretary-General to take the place. Until the position, with these possibilities, will be filled by the already existing staff, with someone who can take the place, to proceed with the management of the Zapatiou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u385	Good, Minister, thank you. Mr Christos Dimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u386	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with the amendments. Madam Secretary, you have considered it appropriate today that the Government, the Ministry of Finance and you personally bring to Parliament an amendment which increases the remuneration of the Presidents, the Chief Executive Officers, the Chief Executive Officers of Public Undertakings and their subsidiaries. It increases the remuneration to EUR 7,483,10 from the EUR 4.631 that is today. The only word we have to say is 'wrong'. It is shameful today to discuss this amendment, despite the fact that you have withdrawn this article.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u387	Then why are we talking about her?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u388	Because you brought her to the House, Madam Secretary. If that's possible! These days and under these circumstances, do you bring increases to your own people who you have in the CECE? Aren't you embarrassed? And you only withdraw it after the social outcry? If ever possible! With this curiosity, you legislate, unfortunately. Is this how the country's gonna go forward? Really embarrassed. And if the Opposition, journalists and others did not come out to support this amendment, you would not have withdrawn it. We really demand that you apologize. Secondly, I was absent at the second and third sessions of the committee because I had to be on fire. I read the Minutes and read, Mrs Papanatsiou, during your debate on the bill on words, your words: "And a third on the basis of some issues that have already been raised in committee so far, such as the proposals made by the Opposition on English, we also include them in the conflict of interest. These are a number of remarks that we have taken into account in order to include in legislative improvements. When I read the Minutes, I said to the Minister of State, he has included them and given me real impression. Of course, when I read the relevant article, I was sorry to see that there was again an inconsistency between words and actions. I'm referring to features.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u389	Now, in about an hour's time, the law school's coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u390	Don't interrupt, Minister. Keep going, Mr. Dimas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u391	I read: 'Article 48 describes the units and responsibilities of the authority. In paragraph 2: Financial Reporting Unit. The unit shall be composed of the President and eleven members of the authority with their alternates, with knowledge of the English language.’ In the second unit set up: ‘Financial Penalties Unit. The Financial Penalties Unit shall be composed of the President and two members of the Authority, with knowledge of the English language.’ In the third Unit, the Asset Statement Control Unit, does not include the knowledge of English. When I asked you at the first meeting, you told me that there were no international obligations. Of course, if you read a few times below, you will see that the unit is involved in European and international organisations as well as in information exchange bodies between them, monitor their work and participate in working groups for these bodies on matters of its competence. So we are indeed waiting to see the legal improvement for English. A second point we made to you is the conflict of interest. And over there, we're waiting for a legislative improvement. Again in Article 48 on page 30 in subparagraph (b): ‘Two or more positions of scientific staff may be fulfilled with persons outside the public sector, with highly scientific or professional qualifications and at least five years of experience in the field of the establishment. Such staff shall be recruited at the choice of the President, by way of derogation from any other provision, by means of a contract of employment of private law which is automatically resolved by the removal of the President. The provision of a service to such posts does not give rise to any right to compensation or to any other claim. The status of the scientific partner of the authority is not incompatible with his professional activity. By decision of the Minister of Finance, matters relating to the remuneration of such staff shall be regulated by way of derogation from any other provision, in accordance with the case of L.4354/2015.’ What we have asked for, and we consider it absolutely essential, and we expect legislative improvement, is to exclude cases where there is a conflict of interest. One cannot be hired at first and the bank in which he is likely to work or any other body in which he works. So we are waiting for the legislative improvements to be consistent with what you said in the first committee. Today we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Finance entitled 'Prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing'. Most of it concerns incorporation of a Community directive in 2015, the 749 European Council. As I pointed out in committee, the first part of the bill, which concerns the transposition into national law of the directive, is not very critical of its content. Its purpose is to prevent and suppress money laundering from criminal activities and terrorist financing, as well as to protect the financial system and the risks they pose. I think it is right to replace the entire entire villages of money laundering legislation in order that there is no flat-rate legislation, but a coherent piece of legislation in the spirit of the directive and the latest updates of Community legislation. Incorporating the provisions of the directive, I would mention that the basic definitions relating to money laundering and terrorist financing are clarified, the basic offences, the persons responsible, the role and functioning of the competent authorities. Information on the actual beneficiary, reporting obligations, collecting, keeping and providing information, protecting personal data, statistics, criminal and administrative penalties, and confiscations and confiscation of assets shall be specified. It is also clear that the money laundering offence is being committed and therefore falls under the jurisdiction of the Greek courts and that the criminal activities from which the property to be legalised originated have taken place in the territory of another State, since, however, the double-worthiness criterion is met - that is, these activities would be a basic offence if they were taken into account in Greece - and are considered criminal and in accordance with the law of another State. What is identified by the directive shields the national law and provides the necessary tools for authorities to deal with offences with many aspects. With regard to the structure and functioning of the anti-money laundering principle, as described in Articles 47 to 55, there is a number of comments we have made. We said about the knowledge of English. What you did not clarify, Madam Secretary, is the part of the experience. In Article 48, the units and responsibilities of the authority are defined and the qualifications of those involved, according to the draft law you brought us, in such a critical service. As a qualification, as we have said, the possession of a university degree and the provision of special knowledge is replaced by the general provision, without any specific knowledge being specified or certified in any way. I think we would like more clarity on what is considered special knowledge. And that's where we'd like an answer. Is special knowledge the service that already exists in these positions? Don't you think it's appropriate to clarify it? The amendments will be put to the vote, Mr President. All I want to say is that bringing amendments to an incorporation of a Community directive into a Summer Section, amendments by several ministries, amendments by fifty-five pages, I think it is the definition of poor legislation. We have told you several times. Obviously, you don't care.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr. Dimas. Mr Maniotis, a special speaker from the PASOK - DIMAR Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u393	Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I do not know, for the first time, how to begin my speech. Honestly, what we saw earlier is shocking. An amendment of shame, where the entire government has dealt with the second day of national mourning, in order to increase the wages of presidents, the advisors of state-owned companies, whom it has itself appointed and to increase from EUR 4.631 to EUR 7.483. And do you know why, ladies and gentlemen? It says it on page 7 of the report. I read: 'The aim of the proposed change is to provide incentives to enable these officials to pursue, with all their powers, the achievement of the objectives set'. The teacher in the village or the child of the MATs or the MAT team of 700 euros or the firefighter burning in the fires, what will he say after this documentation? And you know what the worst is? Do you know who is signing this amendment? I read to you: Panagiotis Skourletis, Ioannis Drasakis, Konstantinos Gavroglou, Happiness Ahtsioglou, Nikolaos Kotzias, Stavros Kontonis, Euklidis Tsakalotos, Olga Gerovasili, Lydia Konordou, Evangelos Apostolos, Elena Kountoura, George Chouliarakis, Aikaterini Papanatsiou, Anastasios Petropoulos. One didn't say he refused to sign it? Has not one person been found to say that 'I do not sign such an amendment'? I really don't know what to say! Of course, the withdrawal of the amendment does not lag behind the shame and the feeling that I am sure all Greek citizens will feel when they know what happened in this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to come to the subject of the directive we have to discuss. I had prepared a whole speech to place myself on the articles and in the first place. But I prefer to ask the government some questions about the substance of operational and administrative efficiency, about how we fight black money. Because in a people hurt and after eight years of memoranda it makes perfect sense and to create principles of combating black money, principles of combating tax evasion, but also to prove by your actions that you have the political will to implement it. During the committee's discussions, I read the four laws that, in 2010 and 2011, the then-alway government of PASOK went through in order for there to be a real fight against black money. And one of these laws is the law that created the Anti-Black Money Fighting Authority, which the current government comes and adopts and simply renames it, so that it fits more closely with the specific Community directive. SYRIZA, however, did not pass this law on the creation of the Black Money Combat Authority. And this is one of the main reasons why the country continues to be in memorandums, because there has never been, especially in the first few years, the political responsibility for a fundamental national understanding, so that as the other countries have done so, we can quickly overcome this crisis, to which we have entered. They got it from Portuguese, Irish, Cypriots. We weren't capable. And the responsibilities are personal and policies of the fact that there has not been, especially for the first two - three years, the necessary national consensus. But now I come to what we do in this matter. How does it fight black money? Because now we come to incorporate a Community directive into national law, since we were referred to the Court of Justice of the European Union after a year of delay, after having passed the time when we should have incorporated this directive. Questions, then. Firstly, in relation to the smuggling of fuels that was to make public revenues one or a half billion, depending on whether Mr Tsipras or another of the SYRIZA's chosen member has referred to the House, I will read you three figures to know what is happening with the smuggling of fuel. I won't say why there's not yet GPS in the tankers. I will not say why the necessary systems have not yet been installed in customs. I'm going to report three numbers on how they already operated workshops have gone out of the way. The Ministry of Environment and Energy has the Fuel Traffic Control and Storage Schedules, the CEDEFOPs. Every day the Ministry of Environment and Energy was taking out workshops to check in gas and fuel warehouses what happens with smuggling. How many checks were carried out in 2014? Four thousand eighteen checks were carried out. How many checks were carried out in 2016? A thousand eight hundred seventy five checks were made. We've got a 53% reduction. It is evidence that the current Minister, Mr Stathakis, sent me to a relevant parliamentary question. And the worst. How many checks were carried out in 2017? I would remind you that four thousand checks were carried out in 2014. How many were in 2017? Seven hundred forty-eight checks. We have a 80% reduction in controls on fuel smuggling and illegal storage. I believe that only these figures are sufficient to demonstrate the absolute incompetence, but at the same time also the absolute lack of will for the current government to strike, to hit the smuggling of fuel. I'm on my way to the rest. Lagard list. Careers have been set up on the Lagard list. There should have been two thousand sixty-two checks. They've only become two hundred and fifty-three. Borgians list. There should have been ten thousand five hundred eighty-eighty-eighty checks, four, four thousand, four. The fifty thousand foreign transfers, which were given in 2014 by the government at the time to the national Parliament. Fifty thousand foreign transfers that should have been checked. How many have been checked? Just a thousand forty-two. Question: For the lists referred to above and for foreign transfers, there is a risk, Madam Minister, that such infringements or infringements will be dropped or, at least, that you have ensured that they will not be retained? Third case: From the Independent Public Income Authority they were sent to the Economic Police to check five thousand cases that should have been checked. Do you know how many executives the Economic Police have to carry out these five thousand checks? Not more than ten. That means in fact the five thousand cases will be left out of control. Last: with a serious risk of limitation if they really want to discuss the fight against black money and the fight against tax evasion. With the administrative change that took place twenty-six thousand cases controlled by the ILO went through the Independent Public Income Authority. Is there a risk that these twenty-six thousand cases will be dropped due to an aptitude of time, yes or no, or are they to be checked? Ladies and gentlemen, because we are experiencing real difficult times and, above all, because there is a huge suspicion of the ordinary citizen against the political system, it has a duty to the political system, we have a duty to all parties and, above all, the government, which makes decisions, has to prove every time that at the sacrifices of the ordinary Greek citizen, there are multiple sacrifices or multiple attempts to recognize the sacrifices of the political system. If we don't do that, the snake egg is already out. Zeroism, isotopeism, the estimate that everyone is the same, the estimate that nothing changes in this place is the cement barbecue that will take us to the bottom. You have no right, you as a government, and you have no right to the whole political system to allow the country to sink. It is therefore necessary at these critical times, apart from humanity and solidarity, which society itself demonstrates, that the political system itself stands up and honors citizens' confidence. Otherwise, you as government will walk where history seems to have taken you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u394	Mr. President, can I testify to the legislature?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u395	Yes, of course. If you are ready, Minister, please testify to the legislators for them to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u396	Just as I said to the committee, the legislative improvements - a total of sixty-three - have to do with the amendments to the new directive which we have already incorporated, as has been requested by several rapporteurs. So the number 1 to 5, 20, 29, 39, 40, 41, 58 to 63 is the new 2018 directive that we incorporate in the current directive. Also under the number 8-14, 16 and 42, because of the development of evaluation by the FATF, we also incorporate the comments from our cooperation. There are some other legal improvements in terms of the central register of real beneficiaries. Also, at Nos 49, 51, 52 and 54, the proposals of the Opposition on English and the conflict of interest mentioned by Mr Dimas are incorporated. I'm making the legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u397	(h) The Secretary-General of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights shall be added to the new indent of Article 8 of the draft law as follows: In other words, we include the Secretary General of the Ministry of Justice in the committee. The second subparagraph of paragraph 2 of the Internal Article 3A, added by the amendment after Article 3 of Law 4182/2013, is added as follows: ‘As opposed to the economic operator, no liability of the donor-public body shall be established.’
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u398	Mr. Kouzilos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u399	Thank you very much, Mr President. Three-day national mourning and we come here today to talk about the prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing in accordance with Directive 2015/849. The directive follows a number of other recent sanctions concerning provisions on new taxation and criminal treatment of so-called criminal activities related to the financing of terrorism. We cannot emphasise and not mention the great turn of SYRIZA and ANELs towards the European Union in these directives. All you have voted against all these years, all you have said is unacceptable, and you are now bringing them in and voting very easily and very quickly. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] With great diligence you turn all the directives into national law, in the worst way we would say, without any legal treatment. And all that can be seen in a very simple way. Just put together and compare the English text with what you have brought, we will see a lot of failures and a lot of great differences, with the legal processing of incomplete, we would say, which are not related to Greek law. It is another creative ambiguity and this one - the current one - or a deliberate one, we would say, creative ambiguity from the European Union. Like previous directives, this is based on the utopia of achieving an integrated, single European judicial system which is not only possible but is not legitimate. The European Union has not concealed that it is working in favour of globalisation, nor has it said that it does not want the nations - states. It wants to enslave all nations - states and control through the government of the European Union. The current national legislation is codified by this directive, with the repeal of the corresponding provisions of Law No3691/2005. The flow of illegal money remains an important problem, both at Union and national level, which could harm the integrity, supposed stability and the supposed validity of the financial system. There is a reasonable question as to whether all these instructions can help. Reading this bill very carefully, this directive, one finds that behind the alibi of preventing and suppressing money laundering, suspicious provisions affecting sovereignty are hidden, do not guarantee confidentiality, nor protect citizens from criminal acts, which they are supposed to want to safeguard. The European Union is making the Member States handlers in substance and there are many provisions which conflict with forms of exercise of state power. Terrorism and financing of criminal organisations are not solved by the internationalisation of the banking system and by the abolition of individual rights. The only way to combat terrorism is to ensure, guard, control national borders, strengthen internal legal structures and, of course, to repeal the Dublin II Treaty. The bill has two parts. The first part incorporates Greek legislation, the second part regulates matters relating to the directive relating to internal legal order. We are voting against this directive for the reasons that will be mentioned below. There are in Article 3, definitions, unacceptable generalisations on issues relating to freedom of trade, such as paragraph 14 for what is considered a suspicious transaction. The activity from which it is estimated that remote indications or suspicions arise. And all this without being able to intervene with the prosecutor. The structure you make will be as follows: They will enter, control anyone with suspicion and control anyone without a court order. For someone in the evaluation, they refer to as criteria the use of or non-cash, occupation, economic surface, reputation and past. That is to say, they make accountable to anyone in fact. If this is not an electronic envelope from the European Union, what is it? Of course we see that with this article in fact what is happening is that there is no individual freedom, no confidentiality. In Article 4, basic offences: there is no paragraph 'trade in human beings'. Very good, we agree. Will you check on NGOs and hot spots to see what's going on? Will police forces intervene to see what happens that you've lost control? In Article 5: He makes accounting for a large number of occupational categories by extending the so-called ‘obligated persons’. In fact, a wider range of economic activities are being targeted. Article 6: No judicial authorisation for appointed persons to process the data and have direct access. There will in fact be no personal data. In Articles 7 and 8, on the so-called central coordination body and the strategy committee: we are not inspired by any confidence and all that you do is so that there are always some of your people in this game, so that they can control whoever you want. Article 12: With suspicion - as you say in definitions - we'll probably all be considered suspects. Articles 22 and 26: They obligate citizens who have simple suspicions, suspicions, so vaguely for transactions regardless of the amount they actually have to nail to the competent authority persons who consider suspicious. This reminds me of the situations in East Germany where anyone who nailed anyone like this just with suspicions, with some indications and, of course, will not get approval from any prosecutor. Article 23: Mandatory abstention from transactions. It shows us the distorting tactics that are completely contradicted by the Charter of the European Union itself. Speaking of the European Union, we have heard - to see how it all relates - that the European Union and Japan sign a trade agreement, will be called JEFTA, answering Trump for the protection of products and imports into America. Can you tell us, after you too will agree to sign this convention, this agreement, what is the trade balance between Japan and America? To see that American products will come through Japan. And it's very simple what's going to happen. In fact, the Americans "take us Americans"! As regards Article 29, it is unacceptable, it obliges lawyers to provide reports concerning alleged or suspected reports or unusual activities. Now, how does that directive mean 'unusual activity'? In essence, it exposes the whole framework of their orders from the client, in accordance with the Code of Lawyers. In closing the first part, what we would like to say is that we are seeing a European Union that is trying to do all these years is political. Trying to make a single state, trying to control the citizens of the European Union and, of course, those exercising this policy will never be controlled, they will never speak of anything. Part two refers to the organisation of the principle of money laundering with a recommendation and the supposed functioning of independence and transparent operation. The second point is that there are vague and ambiguity throughout the whole area. We're seeing a lot of strange things. We don't think Part Two will help. And not only will it not help, but it will create more problems. The European Union wants to control everything. It is emphasizing the globalised system of control and has gradually started to abolish the individual rights and freedoms of the citizens of the European Union. Today what is being voted, as with the previous sanctions and bills you have brought - according to the European Union's directives - runs counter to constitutional order in many parts of it. If you want to do something, see a survey by the European Union Intellectual Property Office that revealed that the Greek consumer pays 125 euros a year for counterfeit products, which destroy thirteen branches and have lost 1.5 billion euros a year and that 15 000 jobs are lost. These, how are you going to check them out? All this can be financed by criminal organisations of terrorism. Because we know that the trade is carried out by specific circles of illegal immigrants. I am going to go a little bit to Amendment 1710/256 for the submarines. As I said to Mr Vitsa, Mr Kuveli, you are making the submarines with amendments. Unfortunately, we have reached the point with amendments to have made the submarines. However, it is necessary to do so. We have also had a recent communication and have been informed by the people of the Skaramaga shipyard about the problem and the anxiety they have on this issue, namely whether they will continue to work and have a job. That is the basic problem of workers at the moment. We believe that with this programme - and we see it through - jobs are guaranteed. We have now reached the point of saying, fortunately, that there is the Navy and that it maintains five hundred families, in fact. But I'll make you a correction. There are no torpedoes anymore. They're fast-tracked crash boats. They are not torpedoes, as you said at the beginning of the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u400	Would you excuse me, Mr. President? The designation is ‘TSC’.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u401	Yes, "TIC", Rapid Strike Patrols. This is a simple correction for the Minutes more so that we don't get confused, because torpedoes have been decommissioned for too many years. In conclusion, what I would like to say, particularly in relation to the European Union's directives, is that the Golden Dawn is fighting for a Europe of nations and that is why it will continue to fight, for a great Greece in a free Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u402	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Athanasios Bardale, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, indeed the amendment you have brought and which gives rises of 60% to presidents, Vice-Presidents and appointed consultants of the ECHO shows that you are breaking one single score after another! You may have withdrew it, but the logic that made you bring it remains. It doesn't change to anything. What's that logic? Give gifts - with or without introductory terms - to those who serve the policy of privatisation and, more generally, to the objectives of this anti-French policy. In our view, the withdrawal is not enough. It is certain that, when you consider that the conditions will allow it, you will bring it back. That is why, in our view, the people and workers should be alert, not only to put an obstacle to the implementation of this anti-grassroots policy, but to overthrow it. Ladies and gentlemen, once again it is shown that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is doing everything in its power to implement its commitments so that the plans of the European Union and, more generally, other imperialist organisations can proceed. This time it is going on modernising legislation in relation to money laundering and terrorist financing. But everyone can easily see the great hypocrisy of both the government and the other parties of the Opposition, about the control of the black money. It's not the first time we've said that. What's our opinion? That you neither want nor can you, not only in our country but in other countries of the European Union and internationally control black money. With the incorporation of Directive 2015/849/EU for the prevention, repression, money laundering and terrorist financing, the aim is to fill gaps and adapt the arrangements for technological developments that have emerged in the meantime, such as electronic payments, trust, gambling and others, and the convergence of legislation between Member States of the European Union. Amongst other things, in the name of transparency in financial transactions, the exchange of information between Member States is strengthened, the amounts for which banks are obliged to carry out checks, for example prepaid cards, are interconnected with the national registers for the actual beneficiaries of the accounts, measures are taken to protect suspect transactions. However, in the recent past, you have amended and modernised the relevant legislation too many times. You have incorporated a number of European Union directives and all this without result. As part of building the well-known reactive area of security and justice, measures such as confiscation of property in the context of combating money laundering from criminal activities were taken. A new anti-money laundering principle has been set up. In addition, over the years to deal with the phenomenon has been active and a number of other transnational bodies such as the Financial Action Group, the Council of Europe Special Representatives Committee, the UN, the Egmont Group and others. So why did not all of these efforts tackle the problem? Because, as the system operates with the free movement of capital, offshore, the development of competition between monopolies, the hunting of the highest profit rate, such phenomena not only cannot be fought but can not be controlled. Where and where, of course, some cases will come to the surface through competition between business groups. However, these cases do not negate the basic thing I have said before. The situation will not change either with the incorporation of this directive, because the free capitalist market, the competitiveness and the entrepreneurship that you all drink in its name, is dominated by water. These are, however, the greenhouse of the concentration and rinsing of the black money. These, though, you don’t even think to touch them. They are - and they will - doing - every effort and they will find every way to circumvent any difficulties and obstacles that they have put on any legislation that they can make to launder black money every time. Therefore, the paths of black money and its laundering are a phenomenon, which no matter how many laws you vote, any transnational cooperation through committees and groups, and if you develop, if the evil is not addressed, will continue to be recycled and will always be one step ahead of any control mechanisms. That is why we say that it is hypocrisy of those who say 'yes' to the free market and the free movement of capital and that they give oaths of faith to the development of competitiveness and, on the other hand, believe that this situation will be dealt with by such legislation. To address the problem at its root, what is needed is another way of organising the economy and society, an economy that is designed in such a way as to satisfy today's, modern needs of those producing wealth rather than the profits of a handful of parasites. We, as a Communist Party of Greece, have tabled proposals at times which, in our opinion, could, at least, limit evil. We don't have a delusion that they'd solve it. However, it does not go through your mind that such proposals could be adopted. What have we said from time to time? We have proposed denomination of all public shares and securities, abolition of bank and tax and any confidentiality, control over capital movements, both within the European Union and in other countries. We have said 'no' to trade with offshore companies and that these should be abolished. If such rules are not in place, if such measures are not taken, we cannot, in our view, limit the laundering of black money. But this is one side of the issue. The second has to do with terrorism. For us, for the JRC the concept of terrorism is a political term, with very specific content. In this position we mean that the term 'terrorism' includes the violence of the bourgeoisie against the people to keep its power or to regain it. There is a reason for an unresolved state terrorism, a state of violence aimed at the people's compliance with the sovereign urban choices of the bourgeoisie by means of a threat to the use of the state law and its mechanisms, state, but often para-state. Of course, terrorism does not exist within a country alone. We have the modern phenomenon of international imperialist terrorism, for example, the right to NATO, the US and other powerful states of the European Union and others to intervene in other sovereign states and then to create reactions. In other words, as our people say, 'where you sow winds, you reap storms'. Obviously in your view, the first part, namely the interventions by NATO, the European Union and the other imperialist forces, is not visible. But the European Union itself - to remind you - also defines the concept of terrorism. In fact, in the name of her approach she opens dangerous roads. With regard to terrorist acts born on the territory of imperialist antagonisms, it has formulated a dreadful legal framework that, at best, can also exploit against the working people's movement by criminalising the intention of committing terrorist acts. How does this logic of the European Union express itself in the bill that we are discussing? Look at Article 50. In our view, it is very characteristic. With this article, the competent authority can impose sanctions not on persons who have been proved to have any participation in any of the so-called terrorist offences, but on persons who are simply suspected, that is, there are only signs of participation! In particular, it is planned to draw up and maintain a specific list of such suspects, a list of suspected terrorists, who are subject to financial sanctions on the basis of all kinds, even completely vague information. The suspect on this list has only the right then to prove that he is not an elephant to be able to leave these situations. With such legislation as the so-called democratically sensitive government of SYRIZA - ANEL, strengthening the reactionary and authoritarian framework of the previous governments, it is not a question of wondering how we have cases like those of Herianna and Pericles, since the administrative and prosecution authorities are able to wrap people up in a paper glue. So, here's what it turns out to be? Let me remind you that, as a Communist Party in Greece, we have tabled an amendment to abolish the terrorist and introduce some even basic guarantees on the issue of receiving DNA, which you rejected. Let me not even remind you that when you were in the opposition, you - as a government - had announced the abolition of the terrorist. So we see that, instead of this abolition, you are strengthening exactly the same legislation in an even more reactionary direction. European Union legislation says: 'Trorism is when one puts at risk or tries to destroy policies, constitutional, state and other structures' and brings as an example power cut or water cut and more. For the European Union, the term 'terrorism' in this sense becomes convenient, it leaves the door wide open to join in the term terrorism and forms of struggle that it chooses itself the organized, working, popular movement, and this is dangerous to people's freedoms and rights and must not, in our view, be underestimated. The terrorists of the European Union are more and more frequently seen as serotype serotypes of 'rotativeisation, extreme ideologies'. All of this must be a risk bell for the populace, a bell for the criminalisation of the ideological perceptions and its struggle. And what's this bill doing about these issues? See Article 9(4) and (5): It maintains and expands control over associations and non-governmental organisations. At the same time, with these objectives and on the pretext of combating terrorism, the repressive mechanisms not only of our country but also of a number of other urban states are being strengthened. More and more initiatives are being taken in areas such as cyberspace, strengthening security in the EU's internal policies in areas such as energy, health, customs, or space. A series of repressive tools such as EUROPOL, EUROJUST, national police and judicial authorities, databases and a number of others are being created. What is being served is not, in fact, transparency, but the competitive interests that are multiplying within the European Union rather than just. After all, it is the interests of capital that have sometimes dictated and the funding, equipment, education and support of so-called 'terrorist organisations'. All these unacceptable phenomena, such as money laundering, terrorist financing - which are inherent to the capitalist economy in how this economy is organised - all of which do not receive corrections to such an economy, in an economy organised on the basis of profit. They are only overthrown when the working class takes in its hands the wealth it produces. On the basis of all this, then, we are voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Konstantinos Katsikis from the ANELs has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u405	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I thought that this bill of the Ministry of Finance, which with its consent began to be worked out and discussed in the relevant parliamentary committee, with the same consent, would end up with the Department until it was voted on. However, the spearhead was an amendment by Mrs Papanatsiou, whose content was not only malicious but also distorted. And I feel the need to make this report, starting, ladies and gentlemen, with my position. Because you know what? Whether the Minister is ANELs or is SYRIZA's big and small government partners are co-responsible for everything that is observed within the field of law, for whatever is haunted and documented for both. So, without apologizing - not to give that impression at the moment - I would like to say at the same time to you, by asking myself, if it really is on this amendment, which concerns two or three ECHOs, which has thousands of workers, and which has revenue and balance sheets and hundreds of millions of millions of dollars, it should be on the same scale. Where else did you see this in the private sector? Where else did you meet this on the private initiative, on free business? Where else did you see it? Is everything to be assessed and characterised by the economic situation? And the competition between the public and private sectors? What are we going to say to a man who really fights business and his company, his business is public business, when he responds to his duties and the competition from the private sector wants to take him? The criterion, the delear we should give him, what will it be? The deprivation of 1,000 or 2,000 euros above? Is that going to be a burden on the budget? Is that gonna save us from the economic crisis? Is this going to balance the balance of the economic crisis? May I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that BMW worth over EUR 700,000 from Mr Venizelos? May I remind you that you charged half a billion of the Agricultural Bank, went bankrupt and gave it to another bank? That was today the object of confrontation and the head of the spear? Are you really saying that? But do you know what you're doing? You give me the right and the opportunity to remind me of what should initially characterize you, to make your self-criticism, to assume your responsibilities, not to renounce them and much more not to blame them on us. In closing this prologue, with regard to the issue raised by colleagues from the Opposition and coming to the bill to which I have referred in detail and to its content and to the arrangements contained therein, at the meetings that have been preceded, I will now be content with a number of more general points on the need to take further measures to prevent and suppress money laundering and terrorist financing as contained in European Directive 2015/849. It is common knowledge that the phenomenon of money laundering from criminal activities, such as drug-smuggling, arms, antiquities or money from robbery, fraud and embezzlements increasingly employs the United Europe that is trying to fortify institutions and deal with it with updated legislation. The fact that financial institutions can be used to legitimise, that is to say, to obtain legal coverage and that products of illegal activities are originating requires the introduction of measures to combat money laundering, not only by means of repression and criminal sanctions, but also by means of methods to prevent transparency measures which, first of all, allow the financial system itself to identify and prevent illegal activities. By applying a package of regulators of increased security, the competent supervisory authorities of credit institutions, in cooperation with national governments, protect the solvency, stability and credibility of the financial system as a whole. So the new European directive, which we are called upon to incorporate today into Greek legislation, prevents the use of the European financial system as a channel for financing criminal activities and at the same time strengthens transparency, preventing the concealment of large funds. In particular, the draft law extends the right of access to information on the real beneficiaries of businesses operating in the European Union and at the same time strengthens the transnational exchange of information, as it is well known that through anonymity criminals are hiding those who attempt to "wash away" their illegal incomes or to fund terrorism. The aim is, therefore, to keep the 'black money' outside the European banking system, as it is admittedly creating two kinds of problems. The first is that 'black money' destroys the real economy and the second is that it can finance terrorism. Faced with these illegal actions, European Directive 2015/849 gives a response, that is to say, what we are now incorporating into Greek law, through which the United Europe is moving a further step closer to combating financing of crime, while at the same time maintaining through enhanced transparency rules the smooth functioning of financial markets and payment systems, such as prepaid debit cards. In any case, the reforms that are being promoted can contribute radically to the fight against corruption and to the fight against fraudulent actions taking place through companies recommended for money laundering, for the concealment of wealth and for avoiding tax payments, a phenomenon that, as we have seen, has received a huge extent with the recent revelation of the Panama Papers scandal. Finally, for all these reasons, I believe that the incorporation of this European directive into Greek legislation comes at a time when the need to prevent money laundering from illegal activity is one of the most important issues on the international and European economic agenda. So, Mr President, as I said and repeat today, we are voting in favour of this draft law and at the same time supporting all the amendments that have been included in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u406	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Georgios Amyras from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u407	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will certainly begin with a reference to the great issue of the tragedy experienced by Attica and the whole of Greece over the last 24 hours. Eighty three dead, unknown number of missing persons, thousands of houses destroyed. Mourning doesn't want silence. Mourning requires responsibility and, apparently, responsibilities are too much and the higher you look at in the government pyramid, the more you identify responsibilities. We're in the middle of summer. Clearly the Minister, Mr Toskas, has responsibilities. It should not be in place as soon as the next few days are finished and at least the missing are found. What matters, too, is this. We are in the middle of the summer, August comes with meltemia and those who today tell us that it is the 'Standard Wind' to the human tragedy in Matti, in fact they tell us that tragedies are inevitable, that we are in our destiny to be tragedies as long as summer blows in Greece. Anyone who says that is a coward, hides behind his responsibilities and does not give us answers why the evacuation of the settlement was not requested Matti to save people. The rest in the next few days. But, Minister Toskas in his place with that result? I mean, mercy! There must also be some shame at some point! I come to the draft law, to incorporate the European directive into national law. First of all, we were informed that on 19 July 2018 Greece, Romania and Ireland were referred to the Court of Justice of the European Union for the non-implementation of rules against money laundering. I ask the government: is it possible? Can you bring us into national law the incorporation of some European tools to combat black money, money coming out of criminal activities, only by threatening our recourse to the European Court of Justice? You don't want the legal weapons Europe gives us to face this black hole in the Lagard list, the Borgians list... Morgins... Foryans... and I don't know what else they're called? But there too, the government's performance is well below the base. When the country receives more than EUR 100 million for the lists I mentioned to you, then we have a problem. Of course, they also have a problem with Greek entrepreneurs, the free professionals, who - I remind you - are still in conditions of a closed banking market. The banks still have the capital controls. Is it possible to "stop" Greek businessmen and not exhaust all the tools we can have in our hands to fight those "black" businessmen with dirty, black money from illegal, criminal activities? Earlier, Mr. Maniotis gave some evidence from a reply from Mr. Stathakis to a question he had submitted to him. I see, too, that in 2014 fines totalling EUR 1.8 billion were imposed by the checks carried out, the tax and others, in 2014. In 2016, the fines imposed - if you have your god - were of all value EUR 178,000. What happened all of a sudden? So what happened? These elements are of the CEDEFOP. It's official evidence. No one's evading tax anymore? Nobody hides "black money"? Oh, my God, you're gonna say! What kind of state I live in that year of 2018 are eighty-three people being burned alive, tens of others being missing, destroying thousands of homes, why did nobody think, did not know, was unable to warn the settlement to leave, i.e. to empty the settlement? Is it possible for people within the sea to be able to swim when the Rafina is next door when the lights appear when it has a port station? Where's the organization? Where's the mobilization? Where's the coordination? I am trying to hold onto it, although 'Come and make a deal not to speak now', I do not agree. Now to speak, because now it is summer and we will, unfortunately, have other fires, because this is the experience of Greece. So what are we going to say tomorrow to other people who will burn their territory? What are we gonna say? Are we going to say again that it's the 'Standard Wind'? I wanted to tell you more here about the smuggling of tobacco, which has not happened anything, about fuel, etc. What can I say? The evidence is, in fact, so unfavourable and disappointing, that you say, "But, where do I finally live? What state is that? Why doesn't he move his legs? Why doesn't he move his hands? Why doesn't he move his brain to do his job'? I won't tell you any more. I will talk about the amendments. I have here to tell you about a number of articles, for example in Article 6(5), to introduce a limit on the amount of gambling that the Committee on Gambling Supervision and Control may decide to exclude from this law. You said to me: "It is the "XYSTTO"". Deal. If someone collects a thousand, two thousand of them, here's how the money goes. So this is where I want clarification. I also want clarification on Article 55 concerning the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority for Criminal Activities and its staff. I am saying again - I have said to all the committees - that once there is an IASC, and once there is a posteriori, it is an unexplained option for officials to enter this principle by another procedure. I don't get it. And for anyone who talks about staffing speeds, I now take you out twenty-six examples, measured by principles, general secretariats, special secretariats, substitute secretariats - and I don't know what other secretariats - which have not yet been staffed and have not done their job. What are you talking about? Let's go later now. Let us look at the amendments. I would like to ask the Minister Kouvelis about Amendment No 1701/253 concerning the Building Cooperative of Permanent Officers of the Hellenic Army. Is the case considered, Minister, to pass the assets on to the Greek Company of Participation, or overseer? Oh, no. I said superstition now, and what came to my mind? Mr. Katsiki, I will answer what you have told me. You talked about freaky situations of the past with scandals, etc. I agree. And you said that whether it is small or large, the co-government party, referring to your party, the ANELs, is responsible. That's right. Speaking of which, what is your position, for the salaries you have as a government enables the supreme officer to give his members? Does he agree to be paid for each meeting, in addition to their salaries, EUR 2,000? It seems unheard of to me, unthinkable. As it seems to me unthinkable that today the government has brought amendments to increase wages to the presidents and directors of the ECJ.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u408	Not everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u409	All right, Minister, not everyone. Excuse me. They hate them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u410	It's two-three.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u411	Yes, sir. It's two-three. Besides you realize how wrong the time you brought it was, I'm glad you understand it, I want to tell you this. We are happy, of course, by the CECE and by buses, about how clean they are and how quickly they come from their time and from the services to other CECE, so you say yes we will give them increases, when everything goes to clock, everything flows in the CECE like the Kalama River in my village in Epirus! It's not like that. We shall now proceed to the amendment on the issue of donation, which we discussed in the previous committees, Mrs Papanatziou, quite a few. I mention paragraph 1 of Article 3A for the donation of medical equipment. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015, in 2016, I have tabled numerous questions and topicals, which unfortunately have never been answered and simple written questions, to see how the extrajudicial mechanism of agreement with 'SIEMENS' went. ‘SIEMENS’ was obliged, on the basis of the extrajudicial compromise it had made with the Greek State, to provide medical equipment to hospitals. So I ask, since it is also part of the provision of the welfare of this law. How much money did SIEMENS give as a donation to medical equipment? What hospitals and how many? Have the obligations of ‘SIEMENS’ been fulfilled? I fear, ladies and gentlemen, from the government's anointing on this issue - because I have become like a horsefight around it and I am constantly asking about this - that there will not have been much. I wish, really, I was wrong. We shall now proceed to Amendment No 1710/256 on submarines. I think it is good that there are clear amounts in the explanatory statement. It is also good at last that the government officially admitted that the twenty-nine-month limit for the completion of the programme was not possible. And I say how different the situation in Greece would be if this government would go out and out and out and say, "Did you know something? We made a mistake in this, we apologise." But where! It makes a forming - not to me but to the government's refusal to admit the reality - my good colleague, Mr Saridis. How, Minister, does the Greek State intend to claim these allowances in the explanatory statement? Responsibilities are attributed to the “ELLENIC NAVIGATION S.A.” to external manufacturers for delay in the supply of materials. Please tell me, how do you intend to reclaim the rights of the Greek State? Ladies and gentlemen, that is what I have to say. Really any man who you meet today and yesterday out on the street, whoever speaks to you, you'll find that everyone has a delusion, they have a psycho-plasma and they say "if possible! Why should humans be lost unjustly?’ I am referring, of course, to the fires. Why? So why, I have the feeling that it will be a burden that you will carry in your pockets until, of course, you come out and answer the people and Matti and all of Greece for whether, in the end, every time it blows, we know it's "Russian roulette" whether someone who lives near the woods or in the woods will live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mr Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u413	Mr President, may I now reply to Mr Amyras or later?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u414	No, you won't answer now. Let the Minister who legislates make the judgments now, Mr. Katsiki. You're gonna do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u415	No objections. I was very kind to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u416	Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u417	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are responsibilities - we have said so - and they are time-consuming, they are touching this government for national mourning and for the tragedy that we are going through at the moment and they will be attributed. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in two months' time three years' time since the government won the Greek people's confidence in the governance of the country. "We come back with the old one, we win tomorrow" was the motto of the September 2015 elections. The Greek people, ladies and gentlemen, voted for the government because they wanted to end the old and win tomorrow. Today, three years later, the old one continues to be here and tomorrow may seem farther, always the same away, as it was three years ago. The practices of the old live and reign, the mindset of the old has dominated the political life of the country, tomorrow is just as gray and dull as three years ago. Today, therefore, in the Summer Sections of the Parliament, we are considering the draft law entitled “Prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing (incorporation of Directive 2015/849) and other provisions”. Today, three years later, in her attempt to end with the old government and win tomorrow, she brings the institutional framework to a vote, which was necessary to see from now on what can be done, because until now the armory that she had at her disposal has not been enough. Now, three years later! So the hypocrisy of the government and its failure is enclosed in the expression of the Prime Minister of the country yesterday and under the burden of the unspeakable tragedy in Matti, which took place in East Attica, where the Prime Minister said: "All the questions will be answered." That assurance was given by the Prime Minister. Clearly, as I said at the outset, we will not be discussing the responsibility for fires today, and we will not bear any responsibility, which everyone knows is there. However, in the context of the Prime Minister's statement, we as the Central Association have only one question to add to what has already been said by the citizens and are waiting for an answer. The question is simple and it is this: Where is the money? Where's the money, ladies? Where is the money for Mr Tsakalotou's cavados on natural disasters? Where's the money you keep from the borrowers for this very job? What have you done with it? Today we are talking about transparency and money laundering from criminal activities, but we are not talking about transparency in the Ministry of Finance's revenue so far, we have not been able to talk. I personally try to learn from Mr Tsakalotos what is going on with this revenue and I will submit to the Minutes, ladies and gentlemen, all my questions on this issue, which are unanswered for a year now. Answer, I'm not taking it. And here today we are talking about money laundering! [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Saridis, presents for the Minutes the above questions, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Do you know, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Mr Minister, where exactly is the amount of Mr Tsakalotou's cavalry at the moment we're talking about? Over a billion! Do you know that? You, the government that ran to give 20 billion from the Fund, from the Public Investment Programme, do you know that your chief, Mr. Tsakalots, has been detained to the end at least over 1 billion precisely for such situations, precisely in order to address the consequences of natural disasters? Does the House, the President of Parliament, the respected President of the Parliament, who made the decision to give money from the budget - and we did it well and we took it - that Mr Tsakalotos holds a percentage of the instalments paid every month by all Greek borrowers, whatever loan they have made, and that they have taken, professionally, housing, consumer, and put it in the cabotage 'for natural disasters'? And for those of you who ask what the law on natural disasters is, I'll tell you. Law 433, Article 2(4). Do Greek borrowers know that? How can the Prime Minister not know that the House does not even know that there is more than EUR 1 billion in the absolute disposal of the Treasury minister, the money of Greek borrowers to deal with such situations? Do you think all of our fellow citizens who ran from their lap who are going to put the money on solidarity accounts? People who are on the verge of poverty, people who lose their homes because they have reddened their loans, people who have not to pay this dose, people who have cut their pensions, people who have cut their wages, know that there is such an account at the Ministry's disposal? Ladies and gentlemen, I have bothered you too many times with this, because I too have been on this issue for nine months. How to do it. Nine months all doors are closed. Nine months, please, I'm squawking. I'm not getting any answers from Mr. Tsakalotos. Will you, ladies and gentlemen, allow this situation here in the Greek Parliament? I myself, however, have to ask for Mr Tsakalotou's resignation. Either he'll answer where the money is, what he's done with it or he'll have to resign. The other way is the path of justice. Today we are ending, you said, with the old September of '15 and we win tomorrow. You are talking today about transparency, about honesty and about moral advantage. Well, I challenge you to prove it, ladies and gentlemen. You're exposed, gentlemen of the government. Where's the money? What have you done with it? It's over 1 billion. You come out and say that your aim is to combat corruption and we are today legislating a European directive on money laundering. At the same time, however, you have lost this money and you do your best to keep people from knowing it. And for those who wonder, I will say once again the famous story of Mr. Tsakalotou's cavalry as it began on September 17, 2017. We are talking about EUR 1 billion - over EUR 1 billion right now - which should be at the disposal of the burned people, who should be at the disposal of the drowned people, who should be at the disposal of those who drown, those who burn. This is the case of the contribution by L.128/1975, paid by each borrower to each instalment that pays for loans and credit cards, a government account in which they end up in the form of an account held outside the State budget at the Bank of Greece. This account was originally created in the 1960s to support export operations. It was a subsidy to the exporting companies. Its use had to be abolished from 1992, due to our entry into the European Union, according to the decision of the then President of the Bank of Greece, Mr. Haliki, but for twenty-four years after, from 1991 to 2015, he appeared to be useless, as the contribution should have been abolished as illegal state aid. On the contrary, according to the official figures from the Ministry that the Minister of Finance himself presented to me on a timely basis, and I have at my disposal, during the time that this account should have been abolished, there were revenues of around EUR 9 billion and payments - unknown where -4.5 billion is. Letting aside, therefore, the fact that Mr Tsakalotos has not answered us - because the investigation has not started - which went to 9 billion in the period 1991-2015, but also the guilty silence of both the New Democracy and the Change Movement on this issue, I am going to the events since August 2015, for which the government cannot claim to be its fault. Then, in August 2015, the parties that supported the European perspective of the country, together with the other articles, also voted for Article 2(4), which provided for the abolition of the contribution as being due, by Law 128/1975, but for the change of purpose of this contribution, where the money paid by Greek borrowers would go to a coin and the firefighters, those who had drowned, those who had been burned, those who had been damaged by an earthquake, could address this coin and come to the Greek state and say "I am very sorry about what you have been suffering, but I have something here that may lighten your pain". Since 2015, therefore, in a sub-paragraph of this third memorandum it has been decided that the retention will continue, it has been decided that Greek borrowers will do the same social policy, because the state has had no money to implement a social policy as a debtor. Every time, that is, when Greek borrowers pay this money, they put a small sum into it. In fact, with the figures presented by Mr. Tsakalotos since 2015 and 2016, we are talking about 436,000 in 2015, 416,000 in 2016, I do not know how much in 2017 - the Minister has avoided telling me - I do not know how much in 2018, over a billion I would say. In two years, then, this ranch was created, this cabotage. Are yes or no, ladies and gentlemen, this money the people who were burnt? Do they deserve them? Are you entitled to use this pigeon? So it is assumed that with today's bill, in which we have already agreed, we will be able to monitor the paths of black money. Who are we kidding? What routes? What black money? This is where we can't find out about the money that the Greek Government itself manages and we're looking to find the paths of the black money? So I ask Mr. Chakalotos to tell me how much the rest of this account has, and he answers self-evidently. I'm reading it to you from the Minutes. Listen to the answer: "It is a big account that, as you say in your question, is in the Bank of Greece. Under this large account there are various accounts in which the account we are discussing is the account. Just because it's an account that's inside a bigger one, it's hard what you're asking me to give it to you by numbers. It's not an account by itself. It's a subaccount in the big account that comes in with the money we get from the ESS, that comes in with the money we collect from the exits to the markets. That's it. If you did not understand it, that is my answer." That's what he said. Incoherence, escapades, ashes in the eyes. He gave me that answer when I asked him how much money he's got in his cabotage. When I reiterated, ladies and gentlemen, the same question just a few minutes later, I received this amazing answer: 'But I answered you, Mr Saridis. What did you not understand?’ Whatever you understand. I wonder. If this money had been given to strengthen the Fire Corps, if we had had some more Canadair, if we had had any more helicopters, if we had contributed more to prevention - because money had been money for this purpose - if they had been given for flooding projects where people drown, if they were worth where that money was given, had they even been saved a life, a life not two but one, a house, not worth more than that money? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. We are therefore waiting for a clear answer from the Prime Minister now, because Mr Tsakalotos is tired of waiting for an answer. Where's the money from L.128/75, where's the rest, how much are it, what do you do it, where you have it, and then let's come and ask for our vote to combat the black money. The Centro Association will vote 'at first', although it is a positive step, but it is an outdated directive anyway. There's a new directive. The country needs a quick pace and we are moving slowly. With regard to the three amendments tabled by the Ministry of National Defence, Minister, we will also support the amendment on the Building Cooperative of Permanent Officials, we will also support the amendment on submarines moving in a right direction and we will take the time of our thoughts on the amendment to the dividends you have tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u418	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Let's see the show because the special speakers are over. Now the Minister will take the floor, Mr. Kouvelis. Immediately afterwards, we will enter the list of Members who are four. We'll start with Mrs. Big Housekeeper and Mr. Voridis. Then we will give the floor to Mr Cassidyri as a Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn who requested him, followed by Mr. Paradiseopoulos and Mr. Panagiotaros, and immediately thereafter we will go to Mr. Kefaliannis. We will then see the other parliamentary representatives. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u419	Mr President, I will be very brief. Mr. Bardale, thank you for the question you asked me. I promised you I'd see it. Indeed, with the transition of the Officer Building Cooperative to the supervision of the Ministry of Finance, there is the identity of the behaviour of all the building cooperatives and the obligation to operate a general assembly. There is no need for special regulation on the part of the Ministry of National Defence. What will happen is that from the time it comes to the supervision and control of the Ministry of Finance, at the same time the general meeting of the cooperatives will also work. As regards the question by Mr Amyras, Mr Amyras, you are obviously referring to the last paragraph, which states that ‘the Hellenic Navy shall not waive any contractual or legal right arising from the tripartite agreement that has been ratified and whose validity is extended until 30 June 2019’. The agreement already provides - and there is - for the existence of guarantee letters. Guarantee letters to the extent that the right to non-compliance arises, the Navy will most obviously request their collapse, with what is to be followed by the counterparty, who may wish to question, delay and lead the case to justice. As is also provided for in the agreement and the existence of criminal clauses. And, of course, beyond these two, there are also actions to search for any liability of the counterparty in relation to the timely or inappropriate implementation of this programme. In any case, what you have rightly pointed out is maintained in full the right of the Hellenic Navy to claim what is right and will be entitled to it if the defects I mentioned are presented. What's the crucial? In my opinion, this provision was necessary in your opinion in your opinion. Why? Because there could be another view that at the time you prolong it, without the repetition of this matter, you have essentially "has resigned". Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Big Housekeeper has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u421	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a mourning day. I would like to express my condolences to the victims of the catastrophic fires in the last few days. Indeed, it is an inconceivable tragedy, and our thoughts of course lie to the missing. I hope we have a happy outcome for these people. The government has already taken the first steps to relieve the affected. But I can't overlook some truths. I'm sorry to tell you. First of all, we have the unregulated structure allowed by the governments concerned for decades, especially in coastal areas. It's a huge issue. Secondly, as far as the illegal construction is concerned, there have often been no preconditions and, unfortunately, they were common, especially in the 1980s and 1990s, in the context of customer relations. Thirdly, for years there have been violations that allowed houses to be erected in the forest, because the competent authorities have looked the other way after the governments that gave them the green light. I'm talking about the Forestry, town planning and other institutions. I would like to refer specifically to Mr Voridis. I'm sorry to talk to you personally. You can answer me. Yesterday I watched you on TV on the EPSILON channel, on the show by Mr Haritatou "We're getting up together!" Looks like you were a bourgeoisie, and you didn't remember well, Mr. Voridis. On the day of this mourning - you had Mr. Capernaro next to you and put you in your place a little - you found yourself a micropolitic when we have missing persons. Report that the government has criminal responsibilities. You seem to have suffered amnesia or Alzheimer's because I searched and found the 1972 FEK which I will even testify to. It's the FEK number 259, October 9, 1972. It is an order for town planning, and I will read to you Article 1, which states exactly how the seaside property will be built. I'll testify to you, and I'll read to you exactly what he says. So the governments of post-militarisation and, on the other hand, not only allowed but were helping. You had the client state. You were helping. Your MPs, wherever they were, in Corinth, Attica, wanted to "develop" as much as you could. They were building two hundred yards. Do you understand? Two hundred meters! They also built in the sanctuary, where it is forbidden under eighty meters to be built immovable. You were closing the cavalry. This has also happened at the "Grand Resort" and the Mayor of Koropi leaves the inhabitants of Saronida and Lagosios to take a special card. Normally you had to tear down the wall of the "Grand Resort" and the beach was free. The Members have therefore stepped in so that you do not lose your client's relationship. I will speak to you on my own experience of town planning, the office and the relevant bodies. You were even interfering with electrophoresis. When they didn't want to make electricity and water supply, you intervened there. I know a contractor of the Greats who, with an permission, was four acres for a country house, built all of Kinetta and half of Alepochori.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u422	Did you report it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u423	Can I tell you something? I'm going to hand you my license, which was called a sucker when I got out of town in '76. I passed a forest hall, a town planning. Don't laugh, Mr. Voridis. I'm addressing you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u424	Do me no favor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u425	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u426	I will read to you what exactly the article and the amendment on 'approximately nourishment'. Article 1 does not write much - it states that the installation of sewage houses is permitted on a land-based basis, i.e. a thousands of square meters. Then it says that within the zone of five hundred meters from the extremist buildings of the settlement recognised as a resort and by decision of the prefecture, if outside the zone, there are a thousand square meters of the field, or on the ground outside these verses being two thousand square meters. And the residence - which will not be built simply will be solved - will be within the settlement at least 1/10 of the entire surface of the building, that is, eighty-square meters or fifty-square meters. And the settlements must be at least eighty meters away, according to Article 6 of Law 2344/1940, from the beach. Paragraph 4 of Article 1 states that ‘an authorisation to place such facilities shall be granted only at the request of the person concerned, by means of a topographical diagram of his plot and his surrounding area on a triple diagram of foot and facets, etc.’. And it says what happens if there is no building permit - Article 1 is over - because Article 2 continues - that is, "installations which do not fulfil the above conditions are demolished despite the police authority without any procedure, upon the order of issue of the licence." [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned issue of the Official Journal of the Government, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You demolished them? When you were a government, did you demolished them so we wouldn't mourn victims? No, you didn't, you pushed them. Matty was completely illegal. And you did everything. You New Democracy and PASOK governments! Why do you give SYRIZA criminal responsibility? What was SYRIZA supposed to do? Getting the bulldozers and tearing them down the arbitrary you left, and then you settle them, so you think it's all over? You, Mr Saridis, are referring to 0.06% when it was a bank contribution, it was not the borrower's contribution. The banks submitted it for export aid. This after 1992 the banks illegally transferred it to the borrowers. New Democracy and PASOK did that. They didn't talk then. The point is that for the money that was for the fires of Elias it became an account with the Bank of Greece, which was never used, it was never given and we are looking to find that money.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u427	Your Honor, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u428	I don't have time to say about the other bill. I just wanted to report these to you so you wouldn't say anything you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u429	Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u430	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have come prepared to talk about an extremely critical issue, such as combating terrorism. I wanted to speak in the capacity of parliamentarians, but also in the capacity of the chairman of the Special Committee on the fight against terrorism of the OSCE parliamentary assembly. In my thoughts it was about how crucial this is, how terrorist threats are today spread across the western and even eastern world, how many innocent children, innocent men, women are victims of terrorist attacks and how the international community must organise its action so that it can be effective in guaranteeing the security of citizens, guaranteeing and guaranteeing their lives, their physical integrity. Of course, a large part to tackle terrorism is cutting off its funding. This directive, following on from other directives, is trying to shape such a framework. I also wanted to talk, while institutions are being formed, about how poor the functioning of these institutions is in our homeland and about how there are mechanisms which, if they were to function, may have a value, such as the consultation body referred to in Article 10 with the private sector in dealing with terrorism, which could produce results, such as the strategy committee set out in Article 10, has great tasks, but unfortunately its results are poor. I wanted to talk about something that my colleague of the Communist Party of Greece mentioned, indeed, the need to tackle not only terrorism but also radicalisation and violent extremism that leads to terrorism. So I wanted to raise these issues and see what has happened in our own country on these issues, how international rules have been incorporated. And a little correction. This is not a European Union policy. It is a policy of the United Nations now that this and this approach has been taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u431	I mentioned it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u432	You should mention this without correction, therefore, simply by saying that it is a global policy. I wanted to talk about what I find to be important and important issues. I also wanted to say how little has been done in our country to tackle terrorism, which is still under the depressing shadow, not perhaps fundamentalist blows, but in the depressing shadow of the daily violence of extremism from the extreme left and how little has been done about it. Perhaps nothing has been done to address the causes of this daily violence, which impairs the functioning of democracy, which impairs the possibility of freedom of expression. We are no longer able to talk about this. We have committed ourselves to keeping this three-day debate without opening up the debate on this huge disaster. We have said that we want at this stage to keep our thoughts on all those who lost people, all those who have been lost, to all those who are sadly mourning today, because they are thinking about the stories that their friends and their fellow men have lived in the destruction. Because these stories about many of us are the stories of our friends, they are the stories of our fellow citizens, they are their terrible death in tragic conditions. And when you think about these stories, you find it hard even to keep talking, because you are drowning in grief and indignation and anger. So we said not to talk about it. But, listen, do us a favor from the government, do us a favor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group in the memory of these people and the enormous effort we make to respect this three day their grief, their pain, their pain. Do us a favor! Stop being self-sufficient. Let's not hear you say how exemplarily the state mechanism worked. Do us a favor. Bend up and listen and understand and imagine the moments these people have been through. Consider and be humble at least, instead of hearing that the state mechanism has worked exemplarily - by the Secretary-General of Civil Protection. We'll talk about responsibilities. We will talk about criminal omissions, paragraph - paragraph, the legal provision which provides for the obligation, under its omission and who has omitted it. Not in general. We won't have any institutional discussions. We will not talk about the institutional framework and whether it is good or bad and how it can generally be improved. We'll talk about the circulars that you've taken off and which specifically provide for what each one of us should do. We will talk not about making a sterile political dispute, because on these tens of dead, missing persons, there is no micropolitics in the hundreds injured. The allocation of responsibility is not a micropolitical one. The assumption of individual responsibility is not a micropolitical one. The proper functioning of the state mechanism - and this is not a person - are persons, people who manage the state mechanism and have to do their job - is not a micropolitical one. We'll talk about all this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u433	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u434	We will talk tomorrow, Mr President, and we will be extremely detailed so that the fragments of politics go to their place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u435	That is not allowed, Mr President. "Brassoms"?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u436	'The rasms of politics'. It's a sharp phrase, but it's not hybrid. What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u437	Mr. Mada, do you recognize yourself in this?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u438	You're cynical and rude. That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u439	We said to keep a level of this three-day and to this day it has gone extremely well in terms of at least regularity and discretion. Let's keep it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u440	Are you talking to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u441	I'm not telling you, Mr. Mada. It is undeniable that in his last sentence Mr Vorides has escaped. Okay, it was the last sentence. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u442	If anyone feels personally upset, take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u443	That's not a phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u444	Mr. Voridis, you escaped in the last sentence. You know that. Mr. Cassidy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u445	At the moment, in the most dramatic way, a harsh reality has emerged in Greece, namely that there is no state, there is no state mechanism, there is no government, there are no services, there are no municipalities and regions, the citizen is abundant in his black fate. And at the same time, they dare to come in here, these superscrewed factors that pretend to be the rulers and bring amendments to make more money for the state-owned, gold-paid to the ECHO. I will submit some information here - I have an obligation against the nation - that the Golden Dawn has presented them long before we mourn victims, long before the last tragedy: 200 50 fire-fighting vehicles are forty years of construction, seven hundred fire-fighting vehicles operating in Greece, and that is about twenty and thirty years old. Nearly 20% of the fleet of fire extinguishers is stationary due to damage and lack of spare parts. Thousands of firemen do not serve where they should be in their service places, in the forests, where there are fires. The seven hundred are at the "FRAPORT" and work for the Germans and the three hundred are on the national streets and work for the contractors. And he had taken the sad initiative on July 16, 2018, Toska, to send fire-fighting vehicles to Albania. That's all the disgrace before the tragedy. What happened after the tragedy? There the absolute misery of those who today represent the government of Greece emerged. They appear in the channels with relentlessness. There is an old-fashioned escapade, who today is the Minister of SYRIZA, and he says, "Don't overreact. How many are there? The number of missing persons is small.’ Another minister, who should have intervened in the field for the crime of circumvention of the dead, appears, and says that there are no dead ones who have created the channels. Because we were the first moment in the events, we knew and knew, and everyone knew that the number of the dead might exceed a hundred. And when the channels and the ERT, the top of the Syrian propaganda, lied to get Tsipras to show show show and lectures, at the same time we were in the hospital above Rafina's crossroads, we talked to the doctors, we asked them if the dead were over 20 and they said that they are much more. It was known. The tragicity of moments and events was known to all, and you made a miserable television propaganda. Tsipras spoke of an asymmetric phenomenon, causing not only the common sense but also the memory of our fellow citizens. Asymmetrical is the inability and stupidity that beats this government. And the next day, Kammenos - another show! - with lies and says we had forty-five outbreaks where the fire started. So he's actually talking about a well-organised plan, from a well-organised business group of arsonists. Forty-five fountains - he says - where the fire started! And they ask him, so we were arsonized? And he answers that no, that we cannot say. This mockery, these ridiculous things have been said by factors which, unfortunately, are Ministers today in Greece - and that is why Greece has reached this terrible point, dying helpless people - must stop. What happened? By autopsy carried out by the Golden Dawn and, of course, by residents' testimony, what we know is that neither Russian agents nor asymmetrical organized plan by secret services. They probably didn't even have arsonists. The Mayor of Penteli confirmed this today. For according to all those who were present at Daou, while the ruin began, at the point where the fire started, there was a chopped cable of PPC and probably the sparks it created, burned the first trees and that was where the fire expanded. Prosecutorial investigation into the performance of responsibilities must focus there, because at the point where the ruin began, there was no direct response to the fire, so as to stop it right there in its origin. Only there could stop. When he then ridden New Vuja and the mountain, do you know how long it took to reach the beach and burn the Eye with the winds? It took about five minutes. There was no possibility of reacting anymore. But at first, we need to make a thorough public prosecutor's investigation, see how many forces have rushed to the point, at how long they were there, how much ground and air they attempted at that point, is very critical. Of course, then when the fire had arrived at Matty, there, of course, we are talking about an illegal settlement, there the responsibilities are burdening all governments over the last forty years. We have a seaside settlement without a seaside road. That's unprecedented. You're five meters from the sea and you don't see the sea, you think you're in the center of Athens. In fact, the rhymotomy of this settlement is a deadly trap, and all the vertical streets from the Marathon Avenue instead of leading to the sea, lead to a dead end. And there comes the second crucial point on which the public prosecutors must focus, because there are too many complaints of citizens, too many complaints of rescued and missing relatives that the police were sending the Marathon Avenue the world into the settlement. There must be an in-depth investigation and we must see whether there have been those responsible for this murder, because that is where we will now be talking about murder. And, of course, the third point at which terrible gravity must be given is why the competent bodies had not imposed all the means at their disposal at the port of Rafina and at the port of Rafina. From the first moment on all the means of floating, there was mainly the small inflatable vessels, which were able to infiltrate and reach the coast, not to rescue civilians, who remained four hours in the water, others drowned, others were hypothermic and we mourned other victims. Why did we not have a direct drop on all the waterways at the point of disaster? Why, even the military forces, the special forces, the Z' MAK, the submarine disaster unit, the Port's submarine mission unit, were not from the first second at the point of disaster? There we would have saved too many of our fellow citizens' lives. I will continue by proposing solutions, because this is the major one, because this role and this obligation are shared by the House against the nation, to propose solutions so that we do not mourn victims another time, so that we do not have the same tragic events as the ones of Rafina or Mandra before. We were present at the point, we have relatives, we have homes in the area, as we are present at all the fires in East Attica over the last decade. We have seen that once the front is burned and out of the forehead and the pine trees are burning, the ground means are in no way sufficient. It is not enough for the air resources that the fleet of the Fire Corps currently has, the government must immediately launch discussions. I propose that there should be discussions with the Russian side on aircraft time. To pay, in other words, by means of a listing, to have on our fleet the Beriev Be-20, which is able to carry three times more water than the outdated Canadair. There the cost will not be terrible if an agreement is reached with Russia only for May to September, and this will surely give a huge advantage to the forces of the Fire Corps to resolve the huge problem of forest fires. Of course, all firefighters must return to the active service immediately. It is not possible for hundreds of firefighters to be at airports, hundreds of firefighters to be on the national roads and tolls. It is not possible for staff, which must be at the forefront of this battle, to be in other places where they do not provide anything to the community as a whole. And, of course, I have some solutions proposed by the Golden Dawn and that is perhaps why the Golden Dawn is not a party of power, because people are afraid of radical solutions and radical changes. Because if there are no bulldozers in the Eye, if there are no bulldozers in the place where there are illegal dwellings that have hatched the cavalry, closing access to the cavalry to the citizens who were drowned by the smokers, if there are no bulldozers in Mandra, where they are built houses, warehouses, where the streams have been swept away and the natural water flow to the sea is interrupted, if not all these arbitrary and illegal buildings are broken down, then again and again we will experience the same tragedy. Golden Dawn, of course, is the only force that does not just propose, which has the political will to tear down without calculating the political cost. And I say again that for this reason we are obviously not a party of power today, because unfortunately no one in Greece, until it experiences danger and tragedy, seeks no radical solutions. They must immediately be recruited by the state and be served by forest residents. Residents living in areas which are considered forests, such as the Eye that is a forest area, must be recruited and serviced to oversee the forests and when there is a fireplace to inform the Fire Corps immediately so that there is a direct mobilisation, response and resolution of the problem and that there are patrols of the Greek army in the forests. Our soldiers must not stay in hot spots to produce services to illegal immigrants, but patrol the forests and arrest any suspicious move. There must be severe punishment for arsonists and for all those responsible for this tragedy that Greeks have been experiencing over time. We saw now that Roma criminals, who were stealing the burnt houses, were also invaded. There is also a huge amount of aluminium, which if the state does not intervene directly in all this area that has been burnt in Rafina, they will go Roma and waste all this. But if the state intervenes, there is the possibility of saving a great financial benefit for the citizens, whose lives are unfortunately in a disgusting situation. Of course, the only solution, a time-lag, is to get the political people responsible for our tragedy to go to jail to this treacherous, criminal gang, which is dangerous and disastrous for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u446	Mr Paradise has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u447	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the way in which Greek society and the politicians of our country are currently facing the grief and tragedy that has struck our country is wise. In the first phase, we're united. These words 'brown', etc., when we should be united, are sad exceptions. Most people stick to this appeal and are at the moment engaged in efforts that need unity to be effective. In a second phase, of course, there must be a search for causes and guilty persons, because only if we deal with causes and guilt can we prevent the future. I'm closing my report on the subject. A lot of colleagues have spoken. I come to the issue of the bill that becomes law. I would like to say this. I have heard here - and I have heard many times - the expression that 'terrorism is very specific'. You know, the expression'very specific' can only be heard in politics. I don't know if you've noticed. No citizen says to another citizen that "here is a very specific business" or "a very specific commodity" etc. We say very specific policy, very specific plan, etc. When I say we, I mean all politicians in general. What is very specific in terms of terrorism and dirty money? In particular, they are the victims, the dead of terrorist acts, the injured, the dirty money that has come from weapons, drugs, misery. That's specific. But the concepts through which we are trying to conceive all these phenomena and effectively deal with them are not as specific as that. In Greece we are lucky enough, because Article 187a of the Criminal Code describes terrorist acts and refers to acts that are actually specific. The actions are described in detail in the Criminal Code and so there is a precise description. But if we see on the international horizon the word 'terrorism' and what it means, we will hear very different opinions and see what terrorism is for one another, to be a revolution for the other. Incomprehensible and not specific is also the term ‘possible’. Unnecessary and not specific is also the term “unusual transaction”, which can lead a citizen to his transactions with financial institutions or institutions, as the law says, in adventures, to property commitments, etc. What is the result of all this? That we should not introduce these instruments with which terrorist acts and dirty money can be prevented and suppressed? Of course these instruments must come, otherwise we cannot deal with these terrible phenomena. However, precisely because there are these ambiguities and because, from these ambiguities, the citizen is at risk with his rights and the rule of law, in order to say more institutional, these instruments must be accompanied by very clear regulations to ensure that the innocent citizen is not wrongly harmed and that the innocent citizen is not in danger of being condemned. Is that the attention? Look, my personal opinion is that it does not exist to the extent that it should be, especially at the outset, that is, at international level, when such tools are being built within international organisations. How does that happen? I think that this is due to the fact that those who are usually involved in the projects for similar contracts, directives, dictators and regulatory frameworks are not mostly legal. They are very often economists and authorities in their objects but not best acquainted with legal guarantees. They are also experts, who do not know, in any case, the general principles that exist and the defence guarantees that one meets in international maps or in the constitutions of the country, and often do not pay particular attention to them, so that we have the construction of directives which have no particular attention to the part of justice, to the legal part, that they are trying to be instruments that are effective for the fight - and that many times they do - but the guarantee is not sufficient. So when we are incorporated into a country, we need to take good care to adapt the directives and integrate them into the Greek rule of law in such a way that they do not cause problems of rights and freedoms. Is it happening in this piece of legislation? I think to some extent this is happening. And I think that the legislative improvement, which the Minister has brought to light, is to a considerable extent correct in the committee that sets up the strategy to combat dirty money laundering, now includes the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Justice. At first they participate, as you will see in Article 8, fifteen members. We do not have a legal staff, we do not have people in legal capacity, who can guarantee the correlation of all these regulations with individual freedoms and with legal regulations. I think that as a representative of the Ministry of Justice, his Secretary-General, he could bring this guarantee to the committee. I think that in future, too, Article 48, which also introduces a unit within a wider authority dealing with the sanctions imposed, should be looked at to those with the relevant characteristics. In addition to the President, this unit is a representative of the Ministry of Public Order and of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I think that, in future, there should also be a representative from the Ministry of Justice, who will guarantee the protection of citizens' rights in the face of these tools, which - I repeat - I do not doubt that it is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u448	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ilias Panagiotaros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u449	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to express my condolences to the families of the dozen victims - unfortunately, it seems that the dozens will become hundreds - of this unscrupulous tragedy, which has not been heard for three 24 hours or one apologies from anyone, but not one, competent or even irresponsible. Of course, there is no point in giving up. The fatality of all those in the key positions of this government, in self-government positions and elsewhere, has been shown to have no precedent. These stories have started since last year's very large fire in Kalamatos, where again the state mechanism had proved inadequate, since the destructive and murderous flood in Mandra and the second destructive flood in Mandra. And, unfortunately, history will continue until something drastically changes in this place. The debate that is taking place today, on a bill of economics, is probably out of the question, ridiculous or whatever you want to say. During the three-day mourning, this should not be the case. But since you have insisted that Parliament should remain open at these difficult times, you will hear them. And we are not of the opinion that we should remain silent because of the three-day mourning or difficult situations. No, we're not silenced. They keep their nest dirty. And we don't have it! It should first of all be borne in mind that everyone who has a title in Civil Protection, by the citizens of the municipalities responsible for protecting the fires, the Civil Protection Officers of the Attica Region, who are the Head of State and the Secretary-General of Civil Protection, Mr Kapakis, who just three days before the deadliest fire throughout Europe after the Second World War, said that we are ready from an anti-nuclear point of view. And three days later, whole areas were destroyed, burned the worst way or drowned. So far, there are eighty-five dead and a hundred missing persons. Unfortunately, however, everything shows that the figure will rise dramatically. And none of them have resigned. They are the same, who were in Mandra, who a week before Mandra's murderous floods assured - the same people - that we were ready - from an unpopular viewpoint of the region. And just a week later, they drowned - and there are still missing tens in Mandra. From this morning the government's attempt to "fly the ball on the platform" began. Mr Spirtzis made the statements - an engineer in the profession - and he obviously gave the slogan - he may have been prevented by Mr Kammens - that the whole problem is the arbitrary residences and that they should be punished, whipped - and I do not know what else - all of them. Yeah, it's tragic, it's illegal. Call it whatever you want. But this is not a debate. The unsatisfactory state mechanism three days later has not yet checked the houses to see where they are, and if there are missing persons. Think there were some people who were alive - and I wish they could find themselves, even after three or four days or some, in some house, in some cave or elsewhere - and not the state mechanism could go to check. It is not a question of eleven boars, which Mr Toskas and others justifies, who say that weather conditions were so tragic, so bad. You also knew about the Civil Protection and the responsible, Mr. Skourletis, Mr. Toskas, Mrs. Dourou, Mr. Kapakis and the others did nothing at all. They waited on this clear day the worst and everyone was "writing thieves". And when the bad happened, it turned out that the state mechanism just didn't exist. Because if there was a state mechanism in the case of the Matti region - it is a very difficult area, as many have said - they should have been alerted from the first moment, as is done abroad, when there is a fire relatively close, on a mountain nearby, and evacuate the area. It never happened, by anyone, by nothing. He didn't even get a bell to ring to figure out what's going on with them. And many who have escaped, learned it from radios and televisions that heard that the fire is coming and they have to leave. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] Because the state mechanism, the non-existent Civil Protection, did nothing at all before or during the course, but not even after what it shows. And now, please, this incredible storm that hit North Athens and goes up, don't go to Matty and see other absurd phenomena. Also, we didn't see any state minister going through there to talk to people. And one who spoke, who went with a very big tuxedo, heard it. In fact, he heard them, even though they were trying to be polite people in their mess. The situation is tragic. You're not going to do anything at all. You don't have the knowledge, you don't have the will, you don't have the power for very simple things. No one told you that the fire department could erase this fire, which was coming in with eleven bombers. But if you had been able to notify the people in Matty, tens of lives might have been saved. But you do not have a nail and you prove this every day, because you have not even asked for a single apology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u450	Thank you, Mr. Panayotar. We've completed the list of speakers. We are starting with the Parliamentary Representatives. Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor, and then Mr. Megalomustakas immediately. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u451	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will take much less time, because as far as the tragic events are concerned, I have also referred to my previous speech in the bill that we discussed this morning. As far as this bill is concerned, I think our rapporteur has covered it in full. I would therefore above all refer to the ministerial amendments that have been tabled. I shall begin with Amendment No 1710 and a specialist who is, of course, concerned with the shipyard issue. Ladies and gentlemen, you will all remember - especially those who were part of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence - that many times the present government assured us that the previous funding, which had been made with the relevant legislative initiatives, which had been taken and passed as laws by this House, in essence the submarines, weapon systems, which are extremely necessary for the defence of our country, would have been delivered to their time and, of course, they would have been delivered in such a way that at the moment many of them are already in operation. Instead of a comprehensive solution to the shipyard issue, the government is reinvigorating a new time-lag, giving additional sums, which, of course, are intended to keep the shipyards open, but on the other hand, they still hold the workers hostage. Moreover, there is one issue, which I think should also be addressed by the Ministry's lawyers. Normally, there should also be Mr Kammens' signature to this amendment, because it relates to a piece of equipment of more than EUR 10 million. And you know very well that he is unauthorized to sign only the Deputy Minister's signature of such an amount, because very simply, the shipyards are not a state defence industry, but a private industry. I have not heard why Mr Kammens is missing from this particular agreement. Nevertheless, and precisely so that these workers do not remain unpaid, we, as a New Democracy, will vote'residents' in this amendment, despite the fact that, as I said, there is - in our view - this legal defect, which I hope will not cause a problem then. I now come to the amendment with a general number of 1712 and a specialist of 257. It is the famous amendment of which the Minister withdrew after the general outcry of all the rapporteurs. Of course, we will vote against this paragraph, despite the fact that this paragraph has been withdrawn, with increases in the remuneration of businesses, which are located in the Hellenic Company of Participants and Property of up to 60%, that is to say, reaching around EUR 7,500, which is particularly challenging at the present time. It is impressive that in the explanatory statement, Minister, you have invoked the need for an incentive to work more effectively. Obviously, the incentive of defending the public interest was not enough for the government. And it is not just an assumption of the failure of today's administrations to carry out their tasks. This is another - in our view - prevalence of the supposed moral advantage on the Left. We shall vote against it, however, Minister, for another reason. We shall also vote against it on the issue of the process of bringing new members of the Olympian and Heritage Committee, through which, in fact, a unpaid position is created, from where it is currently unpaid, which will be rewarded with EUR 56 000 per year, which is another challenge at the moment. As far as we are concerned, this position is probably created, because there is a clearing of internal accounts. Besides, this administration, today's administration, was your choice. And we see you're changing it. But, once again, we see that another provocative provision has been introduced, because at this very moment, the administration has been unpaid and now, for your own reasons - I think everyone can draw its conclusions - you are creating a position where it will be paid around EUR 4,500 per month. We are therefore essentially talking about a whole bill of fifty-five pages. If, Minister, no one sums up the total of the pages you have tabled as ministerial amendments, we reach the figure of one hundred and twenty-three pages. I like to look at numbers. We have a hundred and twenty-three pages of amendments today, when this bill - which is a very large bill - reaches eighty. You can understand - and I think we have become tedious to say this in this Chamber - that this is how you legislate very badly. Late amendments to whole bills and amendments which, in most cases, are irrelevant to the bills that we are discussing, and yet you will unfortunately remain in history as the government that has made a record of tabling late amendments, as well as in the bills, urgent and urgent, a practice to which you have been very critical when you were in opposition. I would like to refer to the amendment, with a general number of 1701 and a specific number of 253, concerning building cooperatives. We shall vote 'at present', because it is the second extension, given on this issue. With regard to Amendment No 1704 and specific number 254, the New Democracy will vote against. There are already provisions concerning and regulating project donations. Indeed, we do not understand why there should be a new provision for projects and why the donor should be obliged to conclude a contract with the economic operator on behalf of the donor. Finally, with regard to Amendment No 1705 and specific number 255, although the provision is incomplete because it does not include the Equity Fund, which is the largest and therefore, in our view, the question of the temporary dividend from the Equity Army is not properly resolved, on the basis of the new wage bill, we will be positive. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, we as a New Democracy, as a positive state, are voting in favour of it and what we consider to be a negative one, we are voting against it, with specific arguments. We hope that you will follow the example when you will be in opposition at some point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u452	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Mr Megalamoustakas has the floor for twelve minutes, and immediately thereafter Mr Karathanasopoulos from the JRC. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u453	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to express my grief and grief for all these victims. We, the leadership of this place, all the political system as a whole must act so that at least something similar does not happen again, but also to alleviate, as far as we can, the pain of those who have left behind and have experienced such tragic experiences, taking care of immediately and effectively. It is not the time to talk further about this issue, but I would like to stress that you have to have, as I have said many times, eyes open and ears sensitive not only to listen to the needs of society, but also to listen to the advice and exhortations given by the other parties and by Members of this Parliament. As our rapporteur, Mr Saridis, and then I would like to tell you that many times we have drawn attention to strengthening both the safety bodies and other issues that could help to prevent this great disaster. So at such a difficult time for everyone, we are called upon to consider and vote for a bill from the Ministry of Finance entitled 'Prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing and other provisions'. This bill is an earlier European directive, which we now come to harmonise in Greek law. And I say 'older', because we still have the classic phenomenon that is now established with you, the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence of the late integration into Greek law. This directive should already have entered into force for a year. It should also be noted that the very short time given, in order to consult three days in particular, is inversely proportional to the importance of this draft law for the current economic situation. So we are coming today to incorporate into national law and while a new directive on this subject has already been adopted, 2018/843, of the European Union just two months ago, which amends and updates the directive we are debating today. Do you understand what we're doing? We can't just load this up to the previous people, because you've been running - you've been shutting it down for three years. Consider what you have done and what you should do. So all we are discussing today has been overturned by reality, which certainly progresses much faster than you imagined. I'm not talking about what you're doing. And when we talk about such a special regime, that of financing terrorism through money laundering, we know very well that those involved in it have usually made sure that they are progressing quickly so that their practices are not revealed. We, as an administration of that state, should legislate more quickly and be a step ahead of all of them. It is true that we in the Central Association attach enormous importance to creating a suitable institutional framework to shield our financial system from such unfair practices, because these are the ones that distort healthy competition and entrepreneurship. These two are what we need to have, so that economic growth can come, which we are all asking for over the years of the crisis. The financial market and all sorts of transactions must be controlled, they must certainly be governed by transparency and there must be rules that are respected by everyone. The bill we are debating today attempts to bring order into an anarchist landscape and regulate all kinds of transactions. This is a positive step. However, this positive one is limited to the first part of the draft law, in our view, where it actually comes to transfer us the directive. In the second part of the bill, however, we have the other classic phenomenon that you have introduced to us, the rename of the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority by Criminal Activities and the Financing of Terrorism and Controlling of Income State Declarations to the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority by Criminal Activities. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, our experience so far has shown that simply changing the name of an Independent Authority, but keeping its habits, is not going to bring this change and this new, this new one. What is needed is proper staffing, with adequate supplies, so that we can develop the effectiveness of each authority. We are very afraid that this will happen in this case and I will explain why. The new principle will be composed, in accordance with Article 48, of more than seventeen people with their alternates, as it is evidently considered that the fourteen who were before did not reach us. It is now divided with this new restructuring in three separate units, with distinct staff and infrastructure powers. The Authority’s First Financial Information Unit was considered to have to be strengthened from eight to eleven, with their alternates, as reflected in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. This will be self-sufficiently framed by administrative and auxiliary staff, in order to carry out its work and for this reason 50 new posts must be set up, of which twenty-five will require the completely vague: "special knowledge and experience". We would like there to be more clarification so that this is not left in the air once again or, quite simply, the right to say that with the bills you bring or any bills you bring, you want to help your own people. In Unit II, which will be formed by the President and two members of the authority, but will be framed by administrative and auxiliary staff, another forty-five seats will be needed out of nowhere. Again, the two of them will need nothing but "special knowledge and experience". We are not here to explain what they are. Now we are going to the Third Control Unit, which will also be formed by the President and four members, and it will also be needed - what strange - another thirty. Again, we amazedly see that ten of them will need nothing but'special knowledge and experience'. We do not legislate in this way, nor do we solve the problems of the country. It is obvious - for us, at least - that the government is not concerned, under no circumstances, with the cognitive adequacy and real competence of those who will serve these important services. We do not understand why there are no objective conditions, the possession of a university qualification, for example. But you stay in this vague'special knowledge and experience'. So we understand that these provisions hide - without, of course, trying to hide it - photographic provisions to help you 'the other side'. It's clear. You do not explain why all these new positions should be set up in the uploaded - and not upgraded - for us - first and not described, as I said before, the qualifications that one needs to have in order to hire in there. The problem is also Article 51, which provides for the setting-up of an autonomous Administrative Support Office of up to ten posts, which will be directly covered by the President and which will be assigned by secondments. Another well-known policy! We do not really understand the meaning of the President's almightyness in this case. You may be confused with other cases of your own, where all are decided on by KHS, i.e. joint ministerial decisions, but also upright ministerial decisions. What we want is to work unselfishly, so that every move you make is clear to us and to the citizens that it is moving in the direction of common good. In Article 51 again, the Minister will be able to decide, by way of exception, to determine any other provision, the compensation of the President and the members of this authority, thereby leaving enormous room for political influence over the members of the independent authority. Do you understand what you're doing? We haven't kept anything alive, nothing standing up. We are talking about the fight against dirty money and, unfortunately, it is not enough to update the European Union directives, but the effectiveness of all the mechanisms that we make at national level. With these mechanisms, we should fight against the black money flows. What have you done? Do we have any tangible results with all the lists we've been sent to? Let's see what you've done with the Langard list. Of the two thousand sixty - two cases, only two hundred fifty - two were checked. Of the ten thousand five hundred eighty-eight eight cases on the Borgians list, few have been checked. Of the fifty thousand foreign transfers, what you have examined is just a thousand forty-two cases. How much is the money that went into the cashiers of all this stealing stuff? Just a little. It's minimal and you know it very well. We will all be judged and, above all, you will be judged not only by your effectiveness, but also by your intentions, which are only well-off for us. Unfortunately, when we talk about efficiency and close to this condition, there is also a condition, which is related to SYRIZA, that does not create a great deal of optimism for us. For all these reasons, we cannot see this bill positively. That is why our decision is to move to'residences' in principle and to the whole of it. But, before I close, I would like to add something more. The way you legislate is inappropriate to any parliament in the European Union. You cannot, at the last minute, bring us a multimodalism, which signes it almost half of your Ministerial Council, which is also a provocative amendment. That is why we think you have withdrawn that provision too. That would give another place high. We're tired of telling you that you're causing the world when you're opening up with the president and posting a Director-General or a CEO. And all this, when Greece, when the Greeks try, with all their powers, to keep the economy on a sustainable level. Why? Have you wondered? Have you done your self-criticism? So you can stay there? To keep your chairs? To succeed in helping people and exercising political influence? That's not why we're here. You should consider, not only the ministers, but you too are the Members who support, what you do, how you do it, but why. Have a good time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, Mr. Megalustakas. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the Department that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights forwarded to the House on July 25, 2018 a criminal case law concerning former and current ministers of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Friend and Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou, and former and current ministers of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr. Nikolaos Paradisepoulou and Mr. Stavros Kontonis. After Mr. Karathanasopoulos, Mr. Mantas, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, will speak and the Finance Minister will close the bill. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u455	Thank you, Mr President. It is clear that today's debate and today's bill monopolized to some extent the issues relating to the tragic developments in the field of fires. We were also present at the morning sitting, that is, at the beginning of the sitting today, on these issues. But all this force us to say three things again. Firstly, we are forced to say that it was a specified development, which has very quickly made pieces and shattered the assurances of government officials, such as the Secretary-General for Civil Protection who stressed to the relevant Committee of the Regions that Greece now has one of the most reliable forest protection systems and that, in particular, Athens is fully protected. The results of these statements very quickly appeared. We say that, not because the current government has responsibilities. The responsibilities of all the previous governments and the current governments are timely. They are time-consuming responsibilities, precisely because there was, first of all, a total lack of planning by all governments. That is why we have occasionally mourned dozens of dead from fires, floods or earthquakes: there was no prevention. The money, which is available for forest protection, is close to zero. The money, which is available for fire extinguishering, is too little and too close to zero, so not only does the prevention not exist with the necessary structures and infrastructure but also, at the same time, there cannot be timely treatment, when it occurs, due to the enormous shortages in insect capacity, precisely because of the large shortages and the obsolete fire-fighting agents, whether they are fire-fighting or air-fighting instruments. All this is based on the assumption that in recent decades - and all previous years, of course - anti-military protection measures, anti-nuclear protection and anti-Semitism shields are not part of a more comprehensive design, they are excluded from funding programmes and European funds, precisely because they are not a priority for monopolistic groups and capital. Therefore, we can well say, as a party, that on the altar of securing capitalist profitability, not only human needs, but human life itself too. In conclusion, I will not go into detail because our rapporteur spoke very well about the reactionary content and nature of the bill: 'Prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing'. I am going to go a little further into the amendments, which are part of them. Of course, we have here again the phenomenon, which is repeated, of numerous amendments, unrelated to each other, but also to the specific bill that we are discussing. It was unacceptable that the provision, which the government had withdrew at the last moment to increase by 60% the presidents and directors of the companies, which are part of the Public Property Responsibility Fund, in the well-known fund, which implements the policies, is a result of memoranda and, of course, its action is nothing more than a guarantee of the repayment of the public debt and at the same time finances investment groups, in the name of fulfilling their duties. The duties of the Presidents and directors are, these enterprises should be profitable, so that means implementing anti-popular, anti-population policy. And since they achieve these goals, they can have an increase in earnings. So this is not a provocative provision, which the government will certainly reintroduce in the next few years, because the Minister said that we would see it again. As also, we would like to ask what is the feasibility of this provision, in the same amendment, in the first, in relation to the legacy, the Olympic legacy, which is essentially what you are doing? You activate the Secretary-General, who was there, but who had not been filled, and on the other hand, seeing the composition of organic positions, we see that there is a differentiation. What is this differentiation? He's giving us a question. Remove the position of the Head of the IP accounting officer, university education, and remove the one post of the technical education accountant.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u456	They've changed these.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u457	In the amended provisions, these positions exist. I don't know if they're paid or not paid. On the basis of the amended provisions, we say, what do you change? That seems to be changing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u458	No, of course, but they're two RU positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u459	Looks like it's changing, Minister. So, what does that mean? It leads us to conclude that, whether the positions were paid or not, you go to give a private company the accounting services. That's what it looks like.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u460	There is a second amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u461	The amended provisions you have given, all that change, are these two positions. And it struck us: Why only those two seats? Maybe they weren't paid, I don't know, pay them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u462	There is a second change.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u463	I do not know if there is a second change, based on what you have given us. If you've given us false evidence, we're not responsible for it. We ask questions. If things are different, let us know. But we do not want to limit the debate on these issues, which are of very little importance. I want us to be placed in two amendments, in particular, and to speak in detail. The first amendment concerns the possibility of private donors. We were struck by coincidence...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u464	Donations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u465	Yeah, for the donations. We were impressed by the coincidence in time, that is, it was filed Tuesday morning, after the catastrophic fires, and the picture came to our minds...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u466	It used to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u467	Watch out. All right, Mr. Mada, you're gonna talk, but we've been surprised by coincidence, juncture and moment. Maybe it was a coincidence. We were impressed by the whole situation, which was shaped by the "works and days" of private benefactors in the fires, for example, Elijah. I don't know, it may be a coincidence, but "works and days" of private benefactors in Elias are well known and I don't know if that's how you're trying to give them a legal status. As is also the case with whether or not the date of deposit is a coincidence, we disagree with the core of the amendment itself. Why disagree in the core? Because, in fact, you say that donors themselves will define and what will happen, regardless of any design the public can have for projects and infrastructure which serve needs. So he will determine what needs to be done. So this forms a differentiation on the substance and design and the impact that they will have on people's families. Where individuals cannot be donated, they will not be - or will be referred to - a series of necessary projects. We say, therefore, that, since some should be donors, the donations made should be part of the public's planning, based on the real needs, to meet the people's needs. This is not the case and it gives us even greater impression that the donor himself will choose who will build the project and even greater impression makes us the fact that this whole process is coming out of public account and public control. We say this because we know very well - we do not live in a world of angels, anything else - that by means of this process with overvalues and undervalues it can launder black money and it even comes as an amendment to a bill that wants to protect against black money. It gives us real impression, because this whole process is excluded from public control and from public accounting. I shall end, Mr President, with the amendment on the shipyards. It's not coming for the first time, it's come too many times before. We will take the same stand, because it is precisely not dealing with the main problems. What are the main problems? First of all, the uncertainty about the future of the shipyards. The uncertainty that workers themselves have about their working rights and the safeguarding of jobs. It does not fundamentally deal with the delay in paying recruits, particularly in the part concerning the employer, which is 30% to be paid by the employer to workers, because the remaining 70% is covered by the Ministry of Defence. It takes no action to repay the delayed years, which exceed EUR 12 million. The private employer, in other words, owes the workers more than 12 million people in previous years and, of course, does not even have much fun to do with any plans, which are in fact made by some ministers, for the transfer of the Elefsina shipyard to the same potential investor, who will invest in the Syros shipyards in Syros. It sounds for the operation of American interests ONEX and we are very well aware of the role and special interest shown by the Ambassador of the United States, at least the course of the Syrian shipyards, which are directly linked to the Elefsina shipyards, if he takes the package, with the equipment programs of the Greek Navy and at the same time the United States Navy. From this point of view, we consider that with such developments, such as the one which is being launched and this amendment, workers remain a ball between the government and the employer. Their fears are not entertained, they are not treated with the serious problems which exist and, indeed, the employer uses them as a spearhead to blackmail the government, pay payments and proceed with these programmes in terms of the payment of workers. We, what we say and say in every way, are that we want to ensure the wages of workers, ensure their jobs and their rights. Indeed, this amendment does not cover wages and does not guarantee all workers. Young workers don't cover them. It only covers permanent staff. New workers are excluded. So there are two speeds. We want everyone to be paid properly, to have their dues paid in good time, to have no harmful change in their rights, and to have a provision on when to get paid in previous years. That is why we are voting 'at present' in this particular provision because it does not really address these problems. This is what I have completed, Mr President, the speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u468	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Maddash has the floor. We will conclude with the Deputy Minister, Mr Papanatsiou, so that we can proceed after the vote. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u469	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to comment on just a few aspects of today's debate, starting from the first part of the bill, which is the backbone of the incorporation of a directive. I think that questions are being raised and I say this from a point of view, if you like, of how international organisations, international directives, their incorporation, how the world works in the final analysis. All this produces questions to the people of the world and to me personally, in terms of its effectiveness, its feasibility, etc. If, in any case - to put myself in such a position - it is essentially or all of this, there is a hypocrisy in the system that we are living in in the world, I think we are obliged to follow this road and try, even in this context, to bring the best possible results. Of course, there cannot be effective unless there is international cooperation and, of course, every time, we must endeavour, this international cooperation, its rules, its objectives and its aims, to justify and explain why these efforts are being made. I say all this because we are indeed living in a world of serious uncertainties, serious instability, very high risks at all levels, on a planet we do not know tomorrow. However, I also think that small attempts to make small steps, even if we do not respond to the big issues effectively and in a way which the people of the world can understand, are worth it. I think that in this sense it is good that we are incorporating this directive, even if it is too late and with the legislative improvements that have been made. I think that we are also incorporating elements of the new directive into this legislative initiative. The other provisions of the bill have been discussed several times, some of them with great intensity. I would like to say two - three things about the other provisions and amendments, mainly, which was the main part of the debate. I would like to remind you, first of all, that there is an amendment, which I think is important for workers working in control. It is this amendment, which protects them, to the extent that it protects them - I think - to a significant extent - so that they do their control, in difficult conditions, in particular, which are threatening, often, physical violence. I think that this first wave - if anyone would say - protective measures, is important and frees them at work, which must be done. We will not get tired of saying that it should be prioritised and always directed at these sides, which are always left outside. We have a tradition as a country in it. I am not used to repeating things in a stereotypical way, but the fact is that there is very great injustice many times in which the checks are carried out, to whom, in what circumstances and what effects they have. I think that all of this should be of concern and be corrected every time. I think it is a good thing that he leaves the TIADED, which was only a fund to sell the piece of the Heraklion Pigs and goes within the framework of the so-called super-fund, where it can be exploited - I think this can be seen in the next few months - in the context of the needs of local society. On the donation side, the questions put by the Parliamentary Representative of the JRC I think that the first part obviously concerns a coincidence and not other things. The rest are issues of a different ideological approach, all respectful. I think that at this particular stage, which is coming, it serves a situation that I see evolving, a wave of donations, which are particularly present in the health sector, and which concern specific projects, which are part of the planning for the expansion of public space. So I think it's in the positive direction. The last thing I wanted to say, in relation to the bill, is about the Zappeion issue, because I happen to have origin from the area where these big benefactors worked. I would like to say that I see the formation - as provided for by the bill - of the new Board and the activation of the position of the Secretary-General in a positive direction, because it includes representations which are extremely important: the Municipality of Athens, the Region, the Chambers of Commerce, etc. The whole debate may be about the fact that we suddenly act on a position and, of course, you can think about the level of pay. I would have no objection to really rethinking it. But it is perfectly clear that this money is inside the institution. They do not cover State budget expenditure. It is an issue, but I will also relate it to the other issue of the amendment, which has been a great deal of talk. If we want - and this is happening in many other fields - to talk seriously, in the conditions we have about the management of large operators or even the CECE, from people who are highly qualified, in such an international environment, we may have to see it with coolness and sobriety, to sit and talk about it seriously and honestly, and to prepare for this, if we can actually have managers, who can help these large agencies and if at the economic level we can have some sort of potential - if we have a greater contribution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u470	It has to be connected to the...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u471	Maybe that too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u472	Mr. Amyras, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u473	I, Mr Amyras, and I hear that positive. Anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u474	Very positive you would say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u475	Mr. Maniatis, that's not productive now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u476	Mr. Mada, please don't open a dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u477	Don't do that. I know how to do that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u478	Sad.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u479	Let me finish, don't fly directly. So I say we sit down and think about it. What do you want me to say, Mr Maniotis, that we may indeed have had a view that was not correct? Yeah, we'll say it. On this point, I honestly have no difficulty in saying it. Listen a little. We all have a route. We think, we change, we have to change.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u480	It's self-righteous.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u481	Okay, now. I'm really trying to have a serious conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u482	Mr. Mada, you shouldn't have started a dialogue, because you understand that the reactions will always exist, so go on with your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u483	I am just asking that we have this dialogue and that we take it seriously and with evidence, and I will say why. Because behind how we are going to serve very critical areas, it is also necessary for another 'exodus' to give all of this with assignments to the private sector. I think we should think about this, namely from the accounting offices, from the addresses, from the one hand, from the other, and give it to the private sector as long as it comes out. Because you know very well - some of them here are colleagues at the university and know it - how much the primary teacher, university, etc. They know all about it. So, in these specific circumstances, we need to think about critical areas, which want to be internationally aware, with the ability in the international environment to function and act, to find the ways and answers, which will not be provocative, but can draw such executives that can actually serve the public interest, in a landscape that does not have the best specifications, obviously has many questions, it has no history of pureness. This debate I think we should do it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If you'll excuse me, I'd like to speak for three minutes. I would like to point out that I was struck by the fact that Mr Vorides in this bill, integrating the directive, once again spoke, for left-wing terrorism, for terrorism on the far left - if I am not mistaken, that is the exact expression - by reconstituting the theory of extremes and, indeed, under conditions, that other things we live in Europe and in the world. I'd like to close up with you. I think that not only today, but also in the next few days, we must respect this tragedy, which has occurred and found our place, to seek the greatest possible unity and solidarity. That does not mean at all - it does not mean at all, I repeat emphatically - that we must not seek in a systematic way responsibilities, that we do not have to ask from all sides, because we have an institutional position, apologies from the world, which is in these difficult circumstances and is suffering. But we must now make a very systematic effort, not just to relieve the people of Matti. Because the bells are ringing everywhere. Today at noon we had floods in Maroussi. Tomorrow I don't know what we'll have. In the face of the extreme natural phenomena, which are multiplying in the world, we must become a country, as citizens, as politicians, of a great global movement to address these phenomena of climate change and many others, which the human factor cannot deal with if it continues in this way. Other people know that very well in the Chamber - much better than me, it's not my scientific field - but, I think it's a field of life and we should be interested in everyone. At the same time, we must organize boldly, because it really needs boldness, and as much as possible with greater consensus, wisdom and design and using all the scientists in our country, very important areas. Because the Matty is everywhere. There are many such plightful places, scattered across our country and across Europe and around the world. Don't forget. We need to be committed, especially to it. Of course, we are looking for specific responsibilities, no objections. There are already institutional ways of doing this. I think they'll unfold and nobody can stay out of it. There is no way of doing this, nor do we have any such attitude.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u484	Mr. Mada, if you'd like to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u485	I'll be right over. We don't have that kind of attitude. That's barely the other way around. I think that we should not use - I say as softly as I can - a way used by the Member of the Attica of the New Democracy, Mr Vorides, who would say that he was very full of threats, you understand what type, but very little of a will we must all show, deal with the problems, I say again, facing responsibility, but, above all, dealing with problems. This is what the people of the region need, and that is what we all need in many other parts of the country. Because, indeed, we have created a world and a country that has many and difficult problems.. That is the reality, if we want to talk seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u486	Thank you, Mr. Mada. The speech has been made by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Papanatsiou, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u487	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to find words that correspond to what we have been through in recent days. Dozens of people are gone. At these moments, our thoughts can only be in their families to all those who have been tested and continue to be tested. I would also like to express my sincere condolences to the families of the victims. I also think that from this Step is worth saying a great thank you to all those who in recent days have been thrown at the risk of their lives in the battle against fire, in the firefighters, in the port, in the Army, in the police, in the personnel of civil protection, in the rescuers, but also in the thousands of volunteers and volunteers, who have once again shown the enormous power that solidarity has at these moments. The moment will come when we discuss, we'll analyse the rest. We'll be right here. Let us move on to today's bill. Faced with the phenomenon of money laundering is being prioritised to the priorities of this government. The government has already taken steps in this direction. For the first time these days, the Strategy Committee, which now regularly meets, mobilises, informs and coordinates the stakeholders. We are also in constant cooperation with FATF, the International Financial Action Group, on action against money laundering in our country. The ongoing process has the goal of completing it in June 2019. All the material has already been shipped and studied by the FATF. In addition, the National Risk Assessment Report on Money Laundering has already been completed, submitted to the FATF and is currently considering the time and manner of disclosure. This draft law incorporates Directive 2015/849/EU and the Council Directive of 20 May 2015 into Greek legislation. The aim of the Directive is to prevent the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing. What this bill does in principle is that it reinforces the rules on transparency of corporate structures and even more shields the framework for controlling infringements. In other words, it strengthens measures to limit money flows, money flows related either to illegal activities or to terrorist financing. The bill also enriches the means to obtain accurate and up-to-date information about the real beneficiary of a company and to identify the natural persons who effectively manage legal entities, which is a key factor for those who unleash money, who often hide their identity behind a corporate structure. Thus, the provisions of Article 20 of the Bill set up for the first time the Special Register of Real Beneficiaries to register accurate information about the actual beneficiaries of the entities and the general corporate structures based in Greece. With the legislative improvements that we make in addition to the wording and interpretation issues, we are introducing elements from the new directive. So we could say that at this point we are quite ahead. With regard to a number of objections on the part of the opposition, first of all, we say that provisions concerning the organisational structure of the principle of laundry were proposed by the authority itself, which is better aware of its organisational needs. Of course, as we have said in committees, we are always open, we are looking at the improvement proposals. We have therefore incorporated a number of comments which have been made in committee. I would like to make it clear: with regard to staff with special knowledge, the authority is assigned by secondments from various audit departments. They're not all those new recruits. This provision enables the authority of officials who, because of their purpose in the services they serve, have acquired specialised knowledge and experience, i.e. information necessary for the more effective functioning of the authority. For the provision concerning the scientific associates of the President of the Authority, we incorporate an explicit wording on the issue of conflict of interest for reasons of clarity. We also accept this observation, which has been made by the opposition. I would like here to mention a point made in committee on anonymous real estate investment companies and the view that they should not be part of the person liable. Let us say that it is possible for the competent authorities to lay down detailed rules for the implementation of the individual obligations, even to differentiate the obligations laid down in this Act for the persons liable, taking into account the economic extent of such economic activities, the nature of their professional activities, the degree of risk involved, the activities and transactions, the legal framework governing their professional activities and any objective failure to implement specific measures by certain categories of persons liable. We therefore consider that at this stage we should not limit the scope of the law. Solutions can be given by the competent authorities and in the event of implementation issues, we will be ready to reassess them. With regard to the loan management companies, it is noted that the law establishing them in 2015 provided for their integration with the persons liable. For online betting companies, it was heard that they were excluded from the law. They're not excluded. If you look at Article 5(B) of Article 5, they shall be referred to as persons liable - in the public or private sectors - who are organizing or gambling, and to agencies involved in such activities. In order to allow the Game Surveillance and Control Committee to exclude certain toys from the scope of this law, as you know, all competent authorities and not only the EEPC are entitled, following a risk assessment, to differentiate the obligations laid down in this law for the persons liable to be supervised. There is therefore no question. In gambling, any exception or change passes through the approval procedure of the European Commission, so the possibility provided for by the directive itself concerns low-risk toys, as it has said in the committee. Let me refer here to a number of other issues mentioned in the section today. About the Lagard list: Let's see her history. He was handed over to the Greek government in 2011. Its control and exploitation began in 2012. By 2014, it had started from the Tax Administration authorities for a hundred and fifty-one cases and had only been completed thirty-eight. Since 2015, I would like to say that we have done something more. A further five hundred forty cases were introduced by the tax administration, while the cases completed between 2000 and now amount to five hundred one. The amount that's been established? Let's see that, too. By 2014 it was EUR 23.5 million. To date it is about 300 million euros. There are recent decisions by the Council of State, which will in fact lead to the limitation of certain tax benefits, not to the limitation of cases. We must stress this, because we will have the same VAT control of the most recent uses to remain open. It'll keep running. It won't go to the bells. Now let's see the Borgians list. It was a political initiative to acquire it and to promote it to the public prosecutors, so that no time could be wasted. It was delivered from the outset to the Independent Public Revenue Authority. We didn't keep her in a drawer, we gave her right away. The Independent Public Revenue Authority processed it for the identification of VDUs and promoted it for inspection to the competent authorities. A check has already been launched for about three hundred VDUs together with the associated ones and the audit has already been completed in a hundred sixty-four cases with a set of established sums exceeding EUR 115 million. Now let's see the transfusion list. The audit has been launched for over two thousand cases and has been completed for about a thousand four hundred cases, for which a certificate amounting to more than EUR 480 million has been obtained. I would like to say here that all lists, as well as the divestment list, are controlled by the AIA and the prioritisation process is followed, as set out in the Tax Procedure Code. What did we do before we had that tool in our hands? If we had cases, we got to the end, and we didn't work. We have much better results with the prioritisation. Now let's see what's going on with fuel. With regard to the fight against fuel smuggling, we do not deny that there have been some delays in the implementation of the procedures. However - there is a working group with too many people who go through the procedures by the co-legislative ministries, because there are many ministries, it is not only the Ministry of Finance - it is a reality that we have enriched secondary legislation in order to implement many of the key moves. We are at the final stage of the completion of important actions, such as the traceability of liquid fuels, the placement of electronic systems on sea and land fuels, the installation of input-output systems at every stage of the supply chain and the automatic processing of the relevant results. I shall also refer to the CEDEFOP audits, although it is not the responsibility of our Ministry, but of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, from which we have been informed that the problem you mentioned is due to a lack of funds for the overtime work of the relevant officials and in no way demonstrates incomplete strategic planning and the absence of political will. The question I think now with some amendment that has come before us has already been settled so that this body can step up its controls, along with the services and our Ministry, the Independent Public Income Authority, as well as the other audit bodies and the authorities, such as the Port, the Economic Police and the services of the Ministry of Economy and Development. I would also like to say this here - because I have mentioned a little tobacco - to say this. Here we have some numbers since 2013, the confirmed revenues from tobacco inputs. In 2013 we had 62,872,000, in 2014 we had 116,080,000, in 2015 we had 167,436,000, in 2016 we had 377,841,000, in 2017 we had 592.097,000. I think that the amounts confirmed are quite important in terms of tobacco. In conclusion, I would like to say that with the amendment we tabled concerning the officials of the Ministry of Finance and the AIA, we also create the appropriate protection net so that the auditors of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration can carry out their work in the fight against tax evasion and guaranteeing public revenues, but also in general, compliance with the legislation that we will continue to do. Be sure that this is a key objective of our government and we will continue to do, as we know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u488	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing (Integration of Directive 2015/849) and other provisions’ is hereby terminated. Questioned by the Department: Can the bill be accepted in principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u490	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u492	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u493	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u496	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u497	Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing (incorporation of Directive 2015/849) and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 1 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u499	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u501	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u502	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u504	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u506	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u508	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u510	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u511	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u512	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u515	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u517	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u519	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u520	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u524	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u528	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u529	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u533	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 5, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u537	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u538	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u542	Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 6, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u544	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u546	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u547	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u551	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Is Article 7 acceptable, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u553	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u555	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u556	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u557	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u560	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Is Article 8 acceptable, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u562	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u564	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u565	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u569	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 9, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u571	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u573	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u574	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u575	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u576	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u578	Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 10 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u579	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u580	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u582	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u583	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u584	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u585	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u587	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Is Article 11 acceptable, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u589	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u591	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u592	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u594	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u596	Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 12 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u598	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u600	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u601	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u602	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u603	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u605	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 13 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u607	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u609	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u610	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u611	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u612	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u614	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Is Article 14 acceptable, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u615	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u618	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u619	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u620	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u621	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u623	Article 14 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 15 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u624	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u625	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u627	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u628	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u629	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u632	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u634	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u635	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u636	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u637	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u638	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u639	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u641	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u643	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u645	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u646	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u647	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u648	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u650	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 18, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u651	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u652	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u654	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u655	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u656	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u657	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u659	Article 18 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u661	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u663	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u664	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u668	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Is Article 20 acceptable, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u669	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u670	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u672	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u673	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u674	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u675	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u677	Article 20 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Is Article 21 acceptable, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u679	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u681	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u682	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u683	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u684	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u685	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u686	Article 21 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u687	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u688	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u689	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u690	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u691	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u695	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u696	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u697	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u698	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u699	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u700	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u702	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u704	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u706	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u708	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u709	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u710	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u711	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u712	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u713	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Is Article 25 acceptable, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u714	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u715	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u717	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u718	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u719	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u720	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u722	Article 25 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 26, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u723	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u724	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u725	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u726	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u727	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u728	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u729	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u730	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u731	Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 27 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u732	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u733	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u734	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u735	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u736	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u737	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u738	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u739	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u740	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questions to the Department: Can Article 28 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u742	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u743	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u744	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u745	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u746	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u747	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u749	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 29 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u750	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u751	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u753	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u754	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u755	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u756	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u758	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 30 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u759	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u760	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u761	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u762	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u763	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u764	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u765	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u766	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u767	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Questioned by the Department: Is Article 31 accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u768	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u769	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u771	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u772	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u773	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u774	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u775	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u776	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Is Article 32 accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u777	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u778	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u779	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u780	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u781	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u782	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u783	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u784	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u785	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 33 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u786	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u787	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u788	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u789	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u790	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u791	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u792	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u793	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u794	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Is Article 34 acceptable, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u795	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u796	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u797	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u798	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u799	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u800	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u801	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u802	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u803	Article 34 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 35 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u804	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u805	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u806	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u807	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u808	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u809	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u810	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u811	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u812	Article 35 has therefore been accepted as majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u813	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u814	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u815	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u816	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u817	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u818	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u819	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u820	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u821	Article 36 has therefore been accepted as majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 37 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u822	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u823	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u824	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u825	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u826	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u827	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u828	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u829	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u830	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 38 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u831	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u832	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u833	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u834	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u835	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u836	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u837	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u838	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u839	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 39 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u840	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u841	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u842	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u843	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u844	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u845	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u846	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u847	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u848	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 40 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u849	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u850	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u851	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u852	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u853	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u854	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u855	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u856	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u857	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 41 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u858	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u859	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u860	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u861	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u862	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u863	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u864	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u865	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u866	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 42 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u867	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u868	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u869	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u870	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u871	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u872	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u873	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u874	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u875	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Is Article 43 acceptable, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u876	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u877	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u878	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u879	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u880	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u881	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u882	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u883	Article 43 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u884	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u885	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u886	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u887	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u888	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u889	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u890	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u891	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u892	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Is Article 45 acceptable, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u893	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u894	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u895	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u896	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u897	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u898	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u899	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u900	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u901	Article 45 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u902	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u903	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u904	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u905	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u906	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u907	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u908	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u909	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u910	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u911	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u912	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u913	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u914	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u915	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u916	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u917	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u918	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u919	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Is Article 48 acceptable, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u920	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u921	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u922	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u923	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u924	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u925	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u926	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u927	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u928	Article 48 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 49 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u929	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u930	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u931	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u932	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u933	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u934	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u935	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u936	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u937	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 50 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u938	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u939	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u940	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u941	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u942	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u943	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u944	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u945	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u946	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Is Article 51 acceptable, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u947	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u948	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u949	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u950	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u951	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u952	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u953	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u954	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u955	Article 51 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Can Article 52, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u956	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u957	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u958	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u959	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u960	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u961	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u962	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u963	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u964	Article 52 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Questioned by the Department: Can Article 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u965	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u966	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u967	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u968	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u969	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u970	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u971	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u972	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u973	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Is Article 54 acceptable, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u974	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u975	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u976	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u977	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u978	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u979	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u980	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u981	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u982	Article 54 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Is Article 55 acceptable, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u983	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u984	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u985	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u986	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u987	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u988	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u989	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u990	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u991	Article 55 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Asked by the Department: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number of 1701 and a special number of 253 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u992	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u993	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u994	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u995	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u996	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u997	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u998	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u999	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1000	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1701 and a specialist of 253 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1705 and a special number 255 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1001	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1002	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1003	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1004	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1005	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1006	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1007	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1008	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1009	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1705 and a specialist of 255 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the Section be allowed to accept the amendment under a general number 1710 and a specialist number 256, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1010	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1012	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1013	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1014	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1015	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1016	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1017	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1018	Therefore, the amendment with a general number 1710 and a specialist of 256 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the Section be allowed to accept the amendment with a general number of 1712 and a specialist of 257, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1019	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1020	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1021	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1022	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1023	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1024	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1025	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1026	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1027	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1712 and a specialist of 257 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Questioned by the Department: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1028	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1029	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1030	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1031	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1032	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1033	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1034	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1035	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1036	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing (incorporation of Directive 2015/849) and other provisions’ has been accepted in principle, articles and amendments by majority vote. We are entering the vote of the bill and the whole. Questioned by the Department: Can the bill be accepted in the whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1037	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1038	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1039	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1040	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1041	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1042	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1043	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1044	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1045	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing (incorporation of Directive 2015/849) and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1046	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the Chamber to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1047	The Department therefore granted the requested authorisation. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-26-S1-commons.u1048	With the consent of the Department at 18.25 minutes the meeting is closed for Tuesday 31 July 2018 at 18.00, on the subject of the work of the Department: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
