ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the legislative agenda, I would like to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Standardisation of the concession between the Greek State and the company GIAOSE S.A. ANTI-DUMPING CONTRIBUTION MANAGEMENT INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT, by the company "COMMERCIAL CENTRE", by the company "ETVA INDUSTRIAL REGIONS CONTRIBUTION" and by the company "GOLLOWER CARGO INTERNATIONAL CONTROL AND LOGISTICS ANonymous CONTRIBUTION", for the "TRACTING REFUSION OF PERCENTA CENTRE" and other provisions.". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "The establishment of a Metropolitan Organisation of Arts Museums of Thessaloniki and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 22 October 2018 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Efstathias Georgopoulos - Saltaris, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, entitled 'Institution of a Metropolitan Organisation of Arts of Thessaloniki and other provisions' in the plenary session of Parliament, after four wealthy meetings of the Committee on Educational Affairs, where we also had the opportunity to hear the opinion of the non-parliamentary bodies. In addition, the Ministers for Home Affairs and Education tabled two amendments, which are of a technical nature and a top priority and now are Articles 18 and 19 of the draft law. Two further ministerial amendments were tabled yesterday, which will be developed by the ministers next. One concerns the much-discussed issue of the PAOK field and the other extension by the Ministry of the Environment regarding the suspension of forest maps. The idea of the collaboration of the two major arts bodies of Thessaloniki, the State Museum of Contemporary Art, which is a legal entity of public law, and the Macedonian Museum of Contemporary Art, which has been in the form of the public-owned institution, has already started to be discussed since the 2000s. The first cooperation agreements were then concluded. Their objective for a permanent model of cooperation has always been to kill all these years in legal obstacles to the requirements of the Constitution for public-private institutions, which did not allow any draft merging of the two bodies, i.e. the abolition of the Macedonian Museum and its absorption by the State Museum, while the state had issues of expropriation of private property and compensation. This is why the cooperation plan was unable to proceed by means of a merger. In mid-2015, however, with the change of leadership in the administration of the State Museum, a different model of co-operation, the combination of the institutions, without them losing their autonomous status and without abolishing the mutually beneficial institution of Macedonian. This combination relates to the common subject of the functions of operators in a new public body with a hybrid - we would say - function. In other words, the Agency will operate as a platform for museum structures, supporting administrative and financial, with a single revenue-of-cost management and with a single administrative mechanism as an umbrella, under which individual structures will continue to develop their artistic activities autonomously, with respect to their history and with a commonly accepted framework for sustainability and artistic activity in order to achieve common strategic cultural objectives. A model that one could sum up in the phrase "organisation for all and all about the organization", a model example of a combination of entities, new to Greek data. This body is established by this draft law as a legal person of private public law and bears the distinctive title of MOMUS, while the form of the museum platform is a successful example in countries such as England and Italy. To get here today, in the past three years there has been a detailed and exhaustive work between the institutions, but also with the Ministry of Culture. A year and a half ago, in April 2017, this effort reached an agreement between the State and Macedonian Museum with the signing of a contract establishing MOMUS. Under this contract, the Metropolitan Organization was granted for thirty years by Macedonian rights to use its mobile and immovable property, i.e. collections of art, facilities, etc. In September 2017, the second concession contract was signed for twenty years for the rights to use mobile and immovable property in MOMUS by the Museum of Alex Mylonas in Athens, a public-owned institution which was already in operation as an annex to Macedonian. The above conventions are even called upon to be ratified today in Articles 15 and 16. It is important for everyone to understand that discussions between museum operators, as regards the terms and details of their association, were not easy. It was in this context - and rightly so - that fine legal, social, historical and economic equilibrium should be observed, and indeed a public supervised body and utilities. The successful conclusion of these consultations must be an example of cooperation which we, the political system, must welcome and reward, respecting self-regulation procedures to the extent that they are done within the democratic and constitutional framework and in the interests of the public interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u4	Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, I am sorry to interrupt you, but I would like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a technical problem and those who have passed their card in order to register as speakers have to go through it again, because so far the machine has not been working. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please continue your speech and excuse me for the interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u5	The Ministry left the initiative to the bodies to agree on the details of their association, which also comes into play on issues such as the composition of the MOMUS Single Management Board, the competences of the institutions, qualifications and the procedures for filling posts and others. The most important thing is that the Ministry guarantees the viability of all the actors within the MOMUS by maintaining the amount of the total state grant they receive today cumulatively, which will definitely outweigh their constant and functional needs. In other words, it guarantees the maintenance of the existing level of arts in Thessaloniki, while establishing development terms with the first of the reopening of Alex Mylon Museum in the amazing building that it has at the Astomas Square in Athens. I am here making a necessary reference to all colleagues, but also to the citizens who are following us in the size and importance of the museums that make up MOMUS. The State Museum housed at the Monastery of Lazares has the chance to possess one of the most important world-famous collections of modern art, the Kostakis Collection with 1.277 works, paintings, designs and objects of the rhetoric and the movements of Russian pioneering in the years 1900-1930. To understand the size of the value, I would mention that it was purchased instead of 14.2 million drachmas by the Greek State in 2000 and today its value is estimated at EUR 130 million. It has a strong outward dynamic with continuous lending of works in museums and shops in many foreign countries and will certainly be the main driving force of MOMUS. Also, the State has a remarkable collection of works of contemporary art at the Macedonian Museum housed within the IDU. In addition to the most important collections of contemporary art, that is to say, the Iola Collections, Apergi, Xidis, Meimaroglou, Magdas Kotzia and many others, it is an example of the history of the Greek visual art of citizens' initiative that is supported by his friends on a voluntary basis and has partnerships with institutions of the spiritual, cultural and economic life of the place. This dynamic which has developed through this character and through the capacity to attract sponsorships will continue in the new era within MOMUS. Let me note that, through the important educational and museum education activities of the Macedonian Museum, programs have been carried out for refugees, for the unemployed, while, until now, he has trained about 40 000 children of the Municipal and High School. The other part of the Macedonian, the Museum of Contemporary Art Alex Mylon includes works by the pioneer Greek sculptor Alex Mylon in marble, bronzo, etc., as well as paintings and paintings of her. It has organised many reports and carried out many educational programmes. A significant part of the State Museum is the Museum of Photography of Thessaloniki, the only of its kind in Greece that is housed in the port with about 100 thousand objects from historical archives of photographers and collectors as well as photographic works of contemporary photographers from Greece and abroad, but also with experience - and this - in educational programs. Another part of it is also the Centre of Contemporary Art, also in the port, a structure for supporting new innovative and experimental forms of art. In addition to the above, research has been developed and research activity as well as important publications, while being pre-supposed by an excellent library of art and will develop a high aesthetics vendor. They also play a leading role with the activities and organizations in the visual events of Thessaloniki and not only. He has been organizing the Thessaloniki Biennale and the Bienale photography for years. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to monopolize everyone's anxiety about the sustainability and prospects of the public body and its exploitation. I believe that it should be stressed that these museums have specific aims, namely the promotion of works of art, to be accessible to the general public and, in particular, to young people, especially by strengthening museum children's programmes, a measure with a strong philosophical sign. In its new form and in the light of the above, MOMUS will be able to conduct a travel policy that is popular-friendly, except for the free entry of many groups of people, which is also the case today. It is expressly stated that all kinds of resources will be shared revenues from a single budget covering the fixed and operational needs of all operators, irrespective of the activity of each individual. In the case of additional revenue, a slow pace of fair distribution of these amounts will be activated according to the programming and needs of the individual groups and the correctness of the management of the previous years. Because some concerns were expressed by the opposition about the functionality of the administrative structure of the platform model, I would also inform the plenary that MOMUS will operate with a simple administrative model with a single administration, with a nine-member board and director-general, which is important to stress that it will be selected after an international call of interest. They will develop and specialize in their cultural strategy, but will not engage in artistic activity. The Director-General will be responsible for the three addresses of modern art, contemporary art and photography, which will also be selected by an international call of interest and an independent department of the experimental arts centre. These four operational units and their particular sections are the ones responsible for the artistic activity. In fact, the three directorates retain the title of the museum. There is in the draft law after a significant legislative improvement and the possibility of setting up new service units if the collections of MOMUS are enriched with other forms of art that are absent or are not sufficiently represented by existing ones, such as ceramics, industrial and architectural design, comics, etc. The four units also interact with each other and at the same time assist the work of the Director-General through an artistic committee made up of their heads. Finally, the consultative museums have agreed to have two functions with exclusive advisory activities that overseeing will guarantee the autonomy of the museums and artistic actions of the directorates, which are currently based on size and history, i.e. the directions of contemporary art and photography. In fact, in the first of these, the Minister, having listened carefully to the views of the institutions and colleagues, made a very positive legislative arrangement with the addition of a member designated by the Chamber of Art as he had already pointed out at a meeting of the Committee on Culture. In conclusion, I would like to call on the stakeholders soon to take steps forward, since, of course, there is a constant stepping-up of the museums within MOMUS, especially young people, that they are thirsty for modern operations and for innovative actions. So we need to put other ideas and goals on the table, such as bringing the museum pedagogical programs and the Kostakis Collection near the children, even in the province, as well as strengthening actions for the essay of visual arts with other forms of art such as music, literature, theatre. There's a big field of research on these issues. Let us make use of the possibilities of contracts with the Schools of Fine Arts and other higher education and research institutions for such activities. In conclusion, I would like to pay tribute once again to the work done by the agencies and the Ministry, a work which is also a model of cooperation and consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting today on a draft law of a strategic nature with a view to international scope. As I mentioned in the committees, Thessaloniki is a cave, a historical crossroads of cultures, with multicultural elements, and at this point we are now being called upon to contribute to the upgrading of its cultural and geopolitical role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister wants to put forward legislative improvements. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, I would like to table some legislative improvements by the Ministry of Culture and Sport to the draft law: 'The establishment of a Metropolitan Organization of Museums and Visual Arts of Thessaloniki and other provisions'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Olga Kefaloyannis, rapporteur from New Democracy, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u9	Minister, it is not customary to put forward any legislative improvements, just before the representative of the Vice-President takes the step. You'll find out, I hope, along the way. Ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of a Metropolitan Organisation for Arts of Thessaloniki, MOMUS, which is being discussed and voted on today, is the creation of an idea that has its own long history, an idea that is mature and shaped after almost 10 years of discussion, starting not only as an attempt to remedy the consequences of the economic crisis in the area of culture, but also with a vision. Dialogue, but also the development of partnerships, were encouraged and strengthened after 2012. The creation of a new extended museum model, which would maximise the contribution of culture to the progress of local societies and economies, was the compass of this effort. A museum model in northern Greece, a modern cultural entity, a product of private and public understanding, local societies and bodies with public authorities, with the state, with the state. Today, then, we have, first of all, a duty to stand in the life of all those who have been struggling over time, uniting their powers to highlight the value of culture for the country. And to recognise that the liberation of all cultural forces, the emergence of all aspects of its contribution to social progress, is the work of many and not one. It is a field of compositions, a result of continuity and not fragmentary thinking and action. So there are no triumphant triumphs in this space from one. The real innovation in the case of MOMUS is the path and history of the project. Ladies and gentlemen, the project of the combination of museums has faced many legal, administrative and other difficulties over the years, and the reason was for the particular story, the starting point and the separate problems. The MOMus is therefore called upon to ensure their historical uniqueness, the special actions of each and every one of them, as well as their unique reserve. Ms. Zorba, introduce a bill that seals years' efforts. This is followed by a similar responsibility. One is therefore the risk, if the procedures and actions under this bill can ensure the viability of the new project, that is to say, whether the operation of this new superstructure can be administratively and economically viable. We are responsible, however, for being free from reasonable sterile opposition, for the new organization being able to serve and broaden the mission of museums, for strengthening and developing the scope of the activities of extroversion, as described in paragraph 2 of Article 1, to be able as an enlarged cultural pillar to be the driving force for social and economic development in the wider region. The success of the project is our desire too. But the way you are trying to implement it is at the same time our concern. This is because you are setting up a new agency with two management bodies, the board of directors and the Director-General. We therefore have a powerful administrative board that controls everything, but also controls it, as the President and the Vice-President and his two members will be chosen by the Minister of Culture and Sport. You say it will consist of distinguished personalities of arts, letters and sciences. You have, however, overlooked to formulate the qualifications of the members. With the same creative ambiguity that leaves the choice of persons unspecified, you refer to the choice of the Director-General as well as the managers of the organisation. There is no provision for the procedure, the essential qualifications and the criteria for their selection, in addition to the listing of certain formal qualifications. As far as services are concerned, we have also told the committees that this organisational structure does not refer to any innovative model of cooperative management, as stated in the explanatory statement. You are, you say, applying a third alternative model of combination of functions. But the reality is different. Each museum will be an address or part of an organization with a Director-General and a board of directors, and the agency will draw up a single budget together. This is not called an alternative way of uniting. Here we have a typical case of vertical and centralised management model. According to the classic, as you said in the committee, the model of Greek public administration. In fact, you are creating a stiff bureaucratic structure and you are calling it a model. If one of the museums - addresses needs a special grant immediately, it will move through the single budget after the Director-General is proposed and approved by the Management Board. Therefore, we do not identify and there is no originality and, unfortunately, no flexibility in this structure. As far as staff are concerned, here we have the government's well-known tactics. And in this important project, it didn't separate any logic from the usual one you're following. You know your work to create an economy of scale on the one hand, while on the other, you do not say to abandon the logic of serving your micro-stakeholders. Transfer the existing staff. On the other hand, you anticipate new recruitments, works leases and commissions, useful tools as you called them in the committee. So we have economies of scale on the one hand, assignments and assignments on the other. Controlling persons and structures is always high on the government agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, let me turn to something as important as that. We are particularly concerned about the economic stiffness that will be created by the large single budgets of the Agency and the serious problems that will arise from the non-autonomous nature of each museum of funding. And the resources. You have set out a number of sources of funding entirely in general: aid from the European Union, from other international organisations, all kinds of programmes, revenue from commercial cooperation with business operators, etc. You should have studied and proposed a clearer financing framework so that we too can see it as realistic. We have also told the committees that what you have said about 'pay-off algorithms' does not clearly arise from the relevant article, but are your interpretations. We insist that it is incomprehensible how it is implemented and therefore remains a mystery of how it works. Unfortunately, from what we have seen in the drafting of the bill in committees, the same applies to you, Minister. We have asked that you give at least one example of the operation of this type. You did not. None of the comments and questions raised in the course of the preparation of the draft law were accepted and were not answered. Did you write the perfect bill? Or, as you said, did you not want to spoil the balances of negotiation with operators, despite the fact that you have often had a personal opposite view? This, of course, does not stand as an argument, at least in the context of the preparation of the draft law, with a view to improving it. Reconstruct the concept of parliamentary procedure and remind you that you are the authors of the bill and those who bear the political responsibility of the project. Madam Minister, sincerely so far, just before the draft law was passed, we are not sufficiently convinced that you are introducing what you really believe. The contrast between your personal view and your personal contribution to this bill gives us even greater doubt. We only hope that this attitude does not involve elements of disclaiming responsibility to later problems of MOMUS, for which we have adequately warned. Ladies and gentlemen, you will also allow me to make a final comment on economics. There is no provision in the General Accounting Report on the expenditure incurred. Only allowances, positions of responsibility and the establishment of posts of the Director-General and directors shall be reported. The balance of recruitment, contracts and awards is provided for as cases of possible expenditure without, of course, being foreseen and accompanied by such costs. Any expenses, Minister, for the recruitment you're going to make and the assignments you're going to pay are costly. It is the costs that will be borne by the state budget and, therefore, by the Greek taxpayer. For the Photography Museum now, I'd like to make a special report. This is a special part of the State Museum of Contemporary Art, according to Law 2557/1997. At the end of the year, due to the nature of its object, it developed a particular dynamic and flexibility. Moreover, it is the only state-owned photography museum, with archives and collections made up of historical and contemporary works by Greece and the international area. European programs upgraded its infrastructure and accommodation, while it managed to become a meeting and destination point for the general public. Today's bill seems to be being upgraded to an address. The truth, however, is that the Photography Museum, the only - I say again - in Greece, is lost as yet another address of the new organization. Another solution could be found that would preserve the uniqueness of the museum on the ground. Finally, I would like to note this, Minister. After the drafting of the law in the committee and your positions, we still consider that it is inappropriate to claim similarity to the functional structure, the structure of the services, the legal form, the savings of resources with the cases mentioned in the explanatory statement as international experience. Here seems to be another great and stubborn administrative structure, in addition to the standard standards of vertical and central government followed by your government, and in any case according to international standards. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to sum up by making it clear that we, who have worked in the past towards the integration of the two museums, can only agree with this perspective. We are not optimistic at all, however, about how the current government is attempting to implement it. The administrative structure and structure that brings with it increased bureaucracy, creative ambiguities and the attempt to control the new organisation by the managers, the absence of a study on the viability of the project, the rejection by the relevant Minister of Objections and Observations documented in the preparation of the draft law in the committees, all this raises serious doubts about the success of the project. You are thinking in the right direction, but without study, without planning, without merit, and of course, as always, without transparency. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed of the history of the building and the way this House is organized, forty-two students and students and three trainers from the 3rd Primary School of Argos. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Javarra, would you like the floor to make a statement? What exactly do you want to get in touch with?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, we all know, and most of all the ministers who come to this Chamber to support bills, that the debate here in Parliament is governed by two basic principles: the principle of directity, which in the end means that dialogue is taking place in the face of those who are opposed, and the principle of orality. So there is nothing to be submitted to the Secretariat or to the Bureau in writing without first being recognized. I was informed, therefore, that the Minister has brought some legislative improvements. These must be heard. It is clear, because I see that we are lately entering into forms of alteration of the style and content of the debates.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Javarra, don't expand. You're right. It's just that this was for the time economy. I understand what you're saying. If she wants to, the Minister can make a reference to the improvements. That is why they were tabled to save time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u15	First of all, they were tabled after the rapporteur had already begun to speak. This is what you realise that it is essentially falsifying, essentially distorting parliamentary dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u16	It was submitted by the Minister earlier, at the time Mrs Kefaliannis started. Let us not stay in such detail now, and we are burdened with the discussion without needing to do so. Minister, later or now, if you want, you can refer to legislative improvements. We went through the economy of the debate directly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, of course we will read them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u18	Here, Minister, you have the floor for five minutes to refer to legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u19	The legislative improvements of the Ministry of Culture and Sports on the draft law: "The establishment of a Metropolitan Organisation of Arts Museums of Thessaloniki and other provisions" are as follows: At the end of paragraph 2 of Article 10, the words ‘according to those provided for in conventions ratified by this Regulation’ shall be added. In the first subparagraph of Article 15, the words ‘extension’ shall be deleted and a party shall be placed and the words ‘concession contract’ shall be added after the word ‘and the extension thereof from 16/10/2018’. In Appendix I the word ‘and’ before the letter ‘B’ is deleted and a party is placed. The letter ‘B’ is replaced by ‘B1’ and the words ‘and B2’ are added. The words ‘Annex C’ shall be replaced by the words ‘Annexes C1 and C2’. Annex C2 to Appendix I deletes the first entry of the Convention entitled ‘Amendment of 19.4.2017 to grant the right to use movable and immovable property between the Macedonian Museum of Contemporary Art and State Museum of Contemporary Art’ and the second similar entry is replaced by an amendment to the Convention annexed from 21 June 2018, which includes at the end and as of 16 October 2018. In the first subparagraph of Article 16, the words ‘without 26 July 2018, together with the only Annex thereto, annexed’ shall be replaced by the words ‘with the Convention of 26 July 2018 and the extension thereof of 12 October 2018, together with Annexes A’ and B thereto annexed’. In Appendix II the words ‘as well as’ shall be deleted after the word ‘(Annex A)’ and the words ‘and the extension contract of 12 October 2018 (Annex B)’ shall be added. In Appendix II, Annex A and only before Annex A, Annex B is added and Annex B is attached, as of 12 October 2018, to the Convention for the extension of the Power for Interim Agreement between the State Museum of Contemporary Art and the Foundation under the name “Museum of Contemporary Art Alex Mylon” is added. I would also like to present - and if necessary, read it out as a whole - the example of the application of the MOMUS Income Algorithm per unit of service - Article 13 - with calculation steps and, if possible, to be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u20	Madam Minister, it will be distributed, thank you. Mrs. Hara Kefalidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the establishment of a Metropolitan Organisation of the Museums of Visual Arts of Thessaloniki. It could be a plan of law that's great. It could be a draft law - jumping to development with a vehicle for culture. It could change the image of Thessaloniki. It could be an example of good lawmaking. In a gray and miserable environment, where everything crawls, it could really be a sunshine. What a pity, unfortunately, things in life are not always the way we want them to be. It's a pity a good attempt was lost in settlement, set-up, gossip management, little bump. But what luck can such a draft law come in in a completely toxic environment? Departures of Ministers, disclosures and intercategories between Foreign Minister and Vice-President - Minister of Defence, government pre-nominations for partial expansion of Hayalitis at twelve miles. Half of the government is congratulating Zafe and her tail is differentiated and says that she is ashamed of the pressures and money laundering exerted on VMRO Members, she is ashamed of a Europe of values. On the other hand, we have a Ministry of Education that makes a ball his responsibilities for safeguarding the legitimacy of higher education institutions in their own students. What luck can it have when students and students are literally in the bars of the Minister of Education and in the office of Mr. Gavroglou with the law they say - and we are talking about the Roman student and student movement - that the Ministry of Education is turning the school into a factory that produces people for consumption from the labour market and dismantling universities with the HEI - TEI and divisions? What can a draft law for the mergement of visual arts museums in Thessaloniki? It began as a very nice and grand old idea, the combination of the State Museum of Contemporary Art and the Macedonian Museum of Contemporary Art and in this project, of course, involve the smaller museums, the Museum of Photography, a particular part of the State Museum of Contemporary Art, the Centre of Contemporary Art of Thessaloniki as a self-catering department of the State Museum and the Athens Museum of Alex Mylon, a legacy to the Macedonian Museum of Contemporary Art. Serious efforts have been launched for a decade to achieve this objective, this long-term plan which has been afflicting serious legal obstacles. For the value of this meeting, I think that a brief historical regression has its own role to play. In 1984, the donation of the Iola Collection allowed the establishment of the Macedonian Centre of Contemporary Art, which later evolved into a Macedonian Museum of Contemporary Art. So the donation of this man, Iola, was a foundation stone that allowed the first museum of contemporary art to be built in Greece. Artists Thessalonians have contributed the maximum for his development. I refer to some of the emblems, such as Manolis Andronikos, Paul Zanna, Cyrus Cyrus, Katerina Kamara, Giorgos Kontaxakis, Helen Lazaridou, George Lazorges, Giannis and Alexandra Boutaris, Roula Pateraki, Xanthi Scarpia - Hoipel, Nora Squaterini, Dimitris Fatouros and so many others. The creation of the State Museum of Contemporary Art in Thessaloniki had been shaken since 1985 by the late Melina Merkouris, who had even designated the site of the abandoned company since the beginning of 1960s of the industrial complex of KYFANET. We arrive in 1986 and Melina Mercouri undertakes to promote this idea for the establishment of a State Museum of Contemporary Art and finally hopefully in 1997 the then Minister of Culture Vangelis Venizelos submits to the House a bill establishing a State Museum of Contemporary Art. At the same time, the Monastery of Lazares is granted, a renovated building, for the purpose of installing there the functions of the state museum. In 2000, a thousand two hundred and seventy-five works of art of Russian leadership are bought, the famous Kostakis Collection, for 14.2 billion drachmas, which, through a ten-year loan, managed to secure the Greek state, which was repaid in ten years and is the largest amount given by the establishment of a Greek state to buy works of art. It's the largest investment that ever made Greek government in art. We're on our way to 2006. An amount of 10.2m euros from the 3rd CSF is signed between the Ministry of Culture and the National Bank for the purchase of YfANET, because the museum's accommodation is in the Lazares Monastery and in the port, two areas that, due to humidity, do not seem to be the ideal exhibition areas. But the economic crisis arises and, therefore, the cuts in state funding are beginning. There is an emergency discussion about the merger of the State Museum and Macedonian Museum. The debate begins in 2011 on the Minister of Geroulanos, Mr.Javaras is present - who considers that the Photography Museum should remain outside this scheme, with the aim of separating him - "false" on the part of Mr. Panagiotopoulos and in the course of the process it is reheated as a combination by Mr. Xydakis and Baltas, in order to finally be implemented today. The draft law of the Ministry of Culture came to the House when the deafening noise from the bomb of the concessional monuments of cultural interest belonging to the Greek people and granted to the Anonymous Real Estate Company, ETAD SA, had not been cut. It is time for the entire Greek people to be made public, firstly, the full list of granted monuments of cultural interest belonging to the Greek people and delivered to the EBRD - which is a subsidiary of the U.S., which I recall was created for the repayment of the public debt to creditors - and secondly, the terms of delivery to this wealthy institution that is the excess. If you want our personal opinion, this is the shame of our country and the proof of our national insolvency. And what's your ministry doing? "Works the island", commonly "doing the duck". Where would anyone say so and believe it? That negligence? So irresponsible? So irresponsible? So much sloppy? Ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of the properties that have been transferred to the superstate, we have so far only heard spells from the relevant Minister and reassurances. But the thing is big, it's there, she's alive and she's asking for answers. Ladies and gentlemen, a bill that aspired to be a pilot, to be an example, a model for the cultural things of the country, was lost in trying to exhaust the balance of the Ministry of Culture. He said it ten times and in different ways, the Minister at four different meetings: "To God, the balances that have been achieved are not disturbed!" The bill is the work of the involved bodies, in order to find a rescue formula of the Macedonian Museum of Contemporary Art, to keep balance, to save jobs. That's how he lost his way as a bill-pilot, because you know very well that, if you want to make an omelette, you have to break eggs. Since its arrest, therefore, it sought to ensure the sustainability of the two museum institutions by linking them to a common organisation. The new alternative common shape of the two museums could not only prevent them from shrinking, but could, if really built in a flexible way, take off the arts site. The two main legal persons, the State Museum of Contemporary Art and the public-owned institution of the Macedonian Museum, are not merged, but will operate under a new organisation. The benefit of this combination, unfortunately, remains elementary. For the largest supervised by the Ministry of Culture a museum organization in Greece, with a range above the Greek border, with great collections of works of Greek and international art, of unique historical and aesthetic value, covering all the visual means - painting, facilities, design, video, photograph - this bill proves useful, much below its capabilities. The benefits could be huge from coordinated activity, from journeys to large museums in the world, from networking. But it's not. The strangles, the atomia, the reproduction of bureaucratic forms, the fear of not being able and no one displeased swallowed every prospect of the development and unfolding of contemporary art. Madam Minister, it is the leadership's job to listen, take into account the proposals, the objections, the studies that may have been carried out by the stakeholders, to weight, to process, and ultimately to design strategically, not only the service of operators, but also the service of the public interest. This seems to have completely forgotten about the current draft law, which is why it has become small, hybrid, test and finally sad. Heading in this draft law takes no place, is not placed. Logic, since it doesn't have a vision. All that matters is the stay in the chair of power. The comparison, therefore, with the sizes of the "Tate Modern" or the "Smithsonians" entered as a tasty spice of an unprecedented and unprecedented draft law. I am sorry, because it is disappointing that modern and modern Greek art is treated with bakalisti misery. Minister, how much can this conscious choice of the Ministry serve the area of culture, the extroversion, flexibility, development and, ultimately, the sustainability of this new entity? The answer is easier than the algorithm you ask us to understand and you have created for the resources of the new body: Minimally, in fact. During the debate in the committee responsible, we pointed out to you all the shortcomings and ambiguities of the bill. The lasting enthusiasm in every respect was that you are very respectful of the experience of the bodies that they have designed, have agreed, and that is why you do not want to change the balances that have been achieved. That is why you did not accept the reasonable request that the director of the Macedonian Museum of Contemporary Art take over one of the three addresses in this transitional period of three months, as you estimate, even though he also knows the collections and peculiarities of a museum which is mutually beneficial, so private, of the Macedonian Museum. So, trying to balance yourself, you finally put a person from the Chamber of Visual Arts at the Department of Contemporary Arts. But I don't know how to have even numbers in decision-making bodies. They are six, then, the people in this responsibility. I've never met a even number.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u22	When they don't make decisions. Read it better.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u23	So, you confirm that their role is once again decorative. That is why the board of directors and the manner in which its members choose leaves many shadows, regarding independence in their mode of action, when six of the nine members are controlled in one way or another by the respective government. That is why the appointing criteria remain unambiguous, the procedures and the way they are mobilised. That is why the Board of Directors will not deal with the issues of artistic content, but it should take decisions that will define strategically and the artistic course of this organization. That is why you are not quite right to say that the role of the artistic committee is not determined. You can confirm this once again that it is completely decorative. Instead of using where it is necessary, that is to say, the creation of the cultural policy of the new organization, you understand that something needs to be done, you don't know, and if you want to do so and you leave it in the grey zone too. But that is not the way to develop a cultural policy. Finally, Minister, what do you request from this House? You say to us "glorify me if I am hiding behind the bodies", which, on their own initiative, became this draft law, with many weaknesses and shortcomings that will be judged in the near future and hopefully you will then charge the failures to the institutions and any success will be your personal achievement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u24	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u25	Although this bill began as a flagship and in the course it proved hybrid, we will ultimately support it, because we want to remain consistent, supporting the effort that we started decades ago, giving an opportunity to a good inventive idea, the creation of a metropolitan organization in Thessaloniki. But she lacks the courage, vision, the necessary excesses to be able to operate and fulfil the ambitious objectives for which she was supposed to have been created. That's to know what we're talking about. Finally, this bill is a strategic one only for your stay in power and not for the promotion of contemporary art. He has principles, social sensitivities, left sketch and ideologies. It's all messed up. The question is to exist and everything else is to come. Now that time is zero, and it all goes away, and what international markets and dreams for springs that will eject the country towards growth, now are provoking your popular rates and party survival, and this is unfortunately also reflected in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Antony Gregos from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. We have also seen in this bill, as in all the others - we have burned it down to the committees - that it will have amendments again. We've got four already. I'll be placed during my dentistry for them. The proposed draft law on the setting-up of a single metropolitan organisation, which includes the following and already in operation museums, exhibitions of artistic creators, is considered first and foremost and empirically as an insignificant process that nothing will bring about in terms of serving the visual needs of the co-chairmen. What impresses negatively is that the entire bill does not include a provision to help cultivate the national education and highlight the Greek history and especially the Macedonian Struggle. The choice of legal form - we mean that you propose that it be a legal person of private law - finds us opposing. We find it incomprehensible that the rules of private law should be respected in the regulation of the legal relationships in question when this museum organisation is essentially engaged in state functions and services. Theoretically, the possibility of effective state supervision is weakened and it is likely that mismanagement and mismanagement can occur. Besides, the proposed administrative structure is characterised by the lack of transparency, as we have commented on committees. It is clear and results from the dates of the conclusion of the relevant conventions in the chamber of the bill, that the specific project of the proposed combination of the above-mentioned visual bodies - museums has been launched for some time. But what matters is to see what exactly this combination serves in addition to the artistic needs. Why were the more time-consuming - procedures for the state-of-the-art law enforcement of the legal bodies involved not preferred by the - professedly more time-consuming? The answer is obvious. If this path of staggering were to be observed, it would be more difficult to settle the days. As nationalists and enthusiasts of Greek culture, we are not attempting to build up the general museum function. However, what we are obliged to do is to 'great' - within many introductory forms - and to see to it that the current government is being practicing for some people. This long-term suffering is seen from the contents of Articles 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8 from which the managers who will be responsible for the agency being set up are settled. In conjunction with the assessments set out in the Annex, firstly, the General Accounting Office of the State and, secondly, in the special report referred to in Article 75(3) of the Constitution, there is a clear and undeniable burden on the State budget. At a time when your Government draws up and brings forth this bill, the major national issue regarding the name of the state of Skopje is in full progress. And instead of the Greek Government making moves and actions, from which the real history of our Macedonia will emerge, as well as our resulting cultural heritage, you seem not to give a damn. I want to speak here about the Macedonian Museum Foundation, whose function you deliberately degrade and I have tabled a relevant question. And I say "favourably", because you of the government as the most enthusiastic supporters of the Greek, unscrupulous and unscrupulous Prespeakable Prespecies Agreement, pursuant to Article 6, continue to defend it strongly when the operation of the Macedonian Museum of Macedonia is degraded and on the substance of the museum that promotes and teaches the new generations of the Greeks the historical reality and the battles given for the liberation of our Macedonia by the Turkish yoke and Bulgarian expansion. The indirect removal of the derivative name "Macedonia" and the subsequent reference to Macedonia by the "Macedonian Museum of Contemporary Art", perhaps is one of the reasons why the legislative initiative of SYRIZA - ANEL is introduced to vote. In other words, the removal from every public body, body and agency of the name of our Macedonia and its derivatives. It may be one of the commitments made by the coup d'état to the suppressive and treacherous Ambassadors' agreement. Your Government introduces for processing and voting bills with a clear anti-national and resilience character. In the original eighteen articles, of which this bill is composed, we referred to the meetings of the committees. We have found, for the most part, that the main provisions of the draft law form a management and administrative mechanism, which in no case promotes cultural blossoms. On the contrary, it creates circles of favoured administrative high-wage employees, with highly increased responsibilities. Art, in all its forms, is also a means of communication with the people, but also of forming their conscience and identity. It is clear, however, that Golden Dawn is not going to support legislative initiatives aimed at the settlement of party volunteers, not with the logic of unnecessarily disagreement, but with the logic of respect for the idea and culture of which we have as Greeks the honour to share in the rest of the world. An important criterion is the determination of the current situation in the museums (economic, administrative, operational). Are they meeting their financial obligations? Do they have debts? Do they work adequately with existing staff, all administrative grades? This will also be looked at in relation to the time when this legislative initiative is being promoted, one year before parliamentary elections. The Museum of Photography of Thessaloniki, which together with the Centre of Contemporary Art of Thessaloniki, is the two components of the State Museum of Contemporary Art, according to the phenomena and by drawing information from the internet, it appears to function adequately, for whatever objectives and objectives it has, as it has. It is constantly conducting and planning reports and actions on the subject and several sponsors and supporters are recorded in many of them. At least one sufficient function is reflected and therefore the question arises of the feasibility of changing this situation. The Center of Contemporary Art of Thessaloniki and the Museum of Photography of Thessaloniki are the two components of both private legal entities under the name "State Museum of Contemporary Art". He also has a strong activity, as he conducts a number of events and actions in the pursuit of any of his aims. It should be noted here that the President of the Board of Directors of the State Museum of Contemporary Art and the Center of Contemporary Art of Thessaloniki is the academic Andreas Takis, one of whom recently voted "in favour" of our betrayal of Macedonia with the betrayal agreement of the Prespes. According to the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, many new posts are created in the proposed organisation, Alex Mylona Museum of Contemporary Art, six new posts: six new head of organic units, only the cost of paying a liability allowance of EUR 25,000 per year, approximately EUR 4,200 per year on an annual allowance to each. Position of a Director-General and two new directors to serve the new organisation and the costs of which are estimated at EUR 137 000. New units to which staff will be required shall be set up with remuneration to external consultant services on visual issues, provision shall be made for the conclusion of work contracts for the rental of works or for the award of specialised works or services to appropriate contractors or providers for the implementation of programmes. The Kostakis Collection is exhibited to the public at the State Museum of Contemporary Art. Kostakis Collection is a permanent collection of works of art of Russian pioneering collected by the collector and painter George Kostakis. Considering that this legislative initiative of the SYRIZA - ANEL co-decision, which, according to the above mentioned, raises a subject matter which is directly related to the Left and Communism in general and to people who are members and executives of the Left, comes to a vote at a time when archaeological sites and museums of the Greek territory, through which the majesty of Greek history and culture, the greatness of the Greek race and our nation, remain closed because of the undermining or lack of adequate staff, is judged to be an unsatisfactory action during the further adoption of the proposed draft law. In no case, therefore, could we consent, not to the administrative restructuring, the reorganisation and the submission of these museums to the proposed body, causing new economic costs to the suffering Greek people, but also to the continuation of these museums itself, given the continuing existence of the subject matter presented above, as well as the identity of the creators and donors. I shall make a few comments on the articles to which we have referred and on the committees. In Article 1, paragraph 1 states that the organisation operates in the interests of the public interest, but completely inconsistent with this reference, it also provides for exemption from financial burdens, granting legal, administrative, procedural, and practical advantages of the public. Among the objectives of the proposed body referred to in paragraph 2 and the development of the historical study and scientific research. Let us remind you here - something I have said to the committees - two examples of scientific research and of historical study, as the Left are aware of. First, the reference to the "cost" of the Greeks on the beach of Izmir from Reposi and secondly, the non-recognition of the Genocide of the Pontius by Phil. These shameful positions and references, according to these people - in too many introductory forms - were products of scientific research. In Article 2, paragraph 3, the Minister of Culture is clearly involved in the selection of four members of the board of directors, the chairman, the Vice-President and two other members. The fact that the remuneration of the members of the Management Board will be determined on the basis of a joint Ministerial Decision is not correct as the risk of the political operation is at stake. Article 3(1) provides that the Director-General shall be selected following an international call for expressions of interest. This means that there is the possibility that some foreigner, foreigner, foreigner, Turkish, some Albanian, some Pakistani, some Skopje. The same labelling and complaint concerns Articles 5, 6 and 8. Secondly, it is caused on the budget by the Metropolitan Organisation of Art Arts of Thessaloniki annual expenditure on the establishment of a post of Director-General and two new directors to serve the new establishment, the amount of which depends on the publication of the relevant CYA. It is, however, estimated at a maximum of EUR 137,000. In Article 4, it is caused by the budget of the Museums of Visual Arts of Thessaloniki, an annual expenditure of approximately EUR 25,000, from the payment of a liability allowance to six new head of organic units at the branch level. Annual expenditure arising from the establishment of a Director-General and two new directors, which will also serve the newly created organisation, the amount of which depends on the issue, again, of the relevant CST. We have two comments here: First, the possible annual expenditure from the possibility of setting up the Agency of new units for the management of major art clubs and the possible recruitment of the necessary staff in the event that these collections reach the Agency after donation. And secondly, awarding a fee to an external consultant for visual matters. We are also voting against Article 7 concerning the Department of Contemporary Sculpture, Alex Mylona Museum. We are also voting against Article 9. In Article 10 we have the confirmation of our fears regarding staff staffing and recruitment. As evidenced by verses 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, there will be an election party, mutatis mutandis, which is done in each bill ahead of elections. Article 11 contains provisions on asset management in the State Museum of Contemporary Art. It is worth noting that the contract for the purchase of the Kostakis Collection was signed in 2000, exhibited at the State Museum of Contemporary Art. The price was fixed at the recommendation of a special committee between the Ministry of Culture and the owners of the collection and reached the sum of 14.2 billion drachmas. Therefore, the Greek state has spent tens of millions of euros on this collection. In Article 12, there is a general and ambiguity in the definition of some of the funding sources of the Agency. For example, it is not clear what the 'other international organisations' are to provide financial support for 'non-public bodies' from which grants will come. What are the 'all types and all kinds of social resources' from which revenues will be generated? It is not an exaggeration, therefore, to create suspicion, if not certain, that with this ambiguity anyone - such as Miss Soros - is given the ground to gain access through funding, grants, donations, etc. in another field of activity in Greece, in order to serve any of its objectives. We will also vote against Articles 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17. Some more general remarks. It is truly tragic and acidifying when we talk about art and culture, executives of SYRIZA youth to desecrate in a lousy way top historical monuments, such as the White Tower in Thessaloniki, of course always with the tolerance of the government and the authorities. We have tabled a relevant question. We have asked too many questions about the state of museums throughout the territory and of course about the tragic state of the house of the great hero of the Macedonian Race, Paul Mela. At the Macedonian Museum there are exhibits belonging to this great national fighter, such as a collection of his personal objects and the stretcher to which he was carried injured. I urge all Greeks to visit this museum, which together with other findings shows that the Prespecies Agreement is a betrayal agreement. I also denounce the closure of the museum in Vergina when in a recent protest we were closed - by whose order, I do not know - as if it were at stake by the Greek patriots who were protesting about this betrayal agreement. With regard to the so-called "Famprika Yfhanet" in Thessaloniki, we are all aware of its criminal activity and what happens within this so-called occupation. A SYRIZA spokesman on the committees spoke of cultural events. I don't know if that's what they call drug trade and all sorts of illegitimate energy. However, the so-called "Famprika FAMILY" can be attributed where it is to be attributed, only if the Golden Dawn becomes government. It is well known that you are hostages of every catastrophe and we are also denounced for that. Every bill that promotes the history and culture of our country, we will support it. That's not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague Mr. Ioannis Delis of the Communist Party of Greece now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill brings together in an organization, a metropolitan, three museums, one public and two private, the State Museum of Contemporary Art, the Macedonian Museum of Contemporary Art and the Museum of Contemporary Art Alex Mylon. The first two operate in Thessaloniki and the last one in Athens. The reason why this is done is explained if one sees the substance and orientation of government policy in the field of culture, always in full harmony with the respective policy of the European Union, a government policy which moves in the same direction and always in the same direction, regardless of the driver who is at the wheel of government power. And this policy is nothing other than the commercialisation of art and culture as a counterweight to the ever shrinking state funding, it is not other than the tradition of art and culture, their subjectivity to the needs of capitalist profitability, which arrives with today's bill conferring a right of law on public art, in this case, property. And so, the fragmentary and in individual, always secondary, criticism of the New Democracy, which reaches up to the algorithm, but also of the rest of the opposition, the bourgeois, for the bill, is explained. After all, is this not the essence of the policy of all governments, not only in museums, but also in all the legal persons of the Ministry of Culture? Does it not continue for years and does it not deepen the commercialisation of culture and art and its tradition in the great business interests that they see here, as everywhere, in business? And this merchandise is not one of the main causes that increasingly removes the popular layers from the good of art and culture? And to speak more specifically on the bill now, on the unification of the three museums, the serious problems of the sustainability of the two of the three, i.e. the Macedonian Museum of Contemporary Art and the Museum of Contemporary Art Alex Mylona, were certainly known to them. The draft law therefore attempts first to continue to operate in state money. How can this be done, however, once the state funding for culture and, of course, for museums is not enough, but is further reduced for the sake of these infamous surpluses? But how else, rather than attracting funds either through the increasing trade activity of museums, through various subsidised programmes, or through various associations of friends or donors, or the general public. And since it is considered that this whole merchandise festival of these museums will be served better by their unification and the creation of the new organization for this reason and proceed to it. You are thus aiming at reducing administrative and operational costs and thus reducing state funding, tactics and emergency. That's not an arbitrary conclusion, ours. You write it yourself in your explanatory statement to Article 12 of the bill, the financial resources related to the new agency. This is as follows: ‘The listing of such resources reflects the need to overcome the exclusive dependence, the financial viability of the organisation by its State grant, in particular the extraordinary’. And immediately afterwards, your explanatory statement explains how this discharge of the State is to be made from the financing of museums. This - you say - seek to achieve by exploiting the provision of both independent commercial activity and forms of financing from associations of friends, donors and the general public we have been talking about. Therefore, attracting economic resources, sustainability in the current budgetary crisis, reducing the subsidy from the state budget, to the tripartite point where the new agency is going to move. And when you say that you have been creatively taking advantage of the experience of large organizations abroad, you avoid saying that abroad all these art organizations, such as museums, for example, which have had expensive tickets, have been operating business for a long time in the logic of profit - benefit and not, of course, in the logic of making art a property and a weapon for the people. But the business function of museums means, of course, that they should be fully adapted to the relevant market data. Here, why move on to these adjustments in the legislative framework of the bodies supervised by the Ministry of Culture, Culture and Culture such as the combination of the museums in Thessaloniki, because in this way you seek to strengthen the cultural industry in the fields of production, promotion, promotion, sale and disposal of the cultural good. However, this means, in practice, manipulation of artists, adapting their work to market needs and ultimately through the merchandise and controlled reproduction and disposal of society itself and the people. And how is this adjustment being made now to the needs of the market for cultural institutions? But with constant mobility in the management of cultural goods - the words are yours - the term necessary to promote business interests in the arts sector as well. This is where the European Union is central, and with its decisions on the strategic review of culture, as it says, aims to strengthen the identity of the European citizen through cultural actions and programmes, such as the Europe 2018-2027 Cultural Agenda, with emphasis on the mobility of the arts in the countries of the European Union. And in order to achieve the above objectives of these programmes, the European Union estimates to spend EUR 1.8 billion by 2027. This money, of course, will not be managed by artists, but by various companies, various institutions, non-governmental organisations and they will go by saying. What's the result? Quite simply, the interdependent relationships of the artists with the cultural industry will become increasingly deeper, that is, the artists will be pushed or forced into a creation subordinate to the needs of the market, to limit their freedom of expression, in order to promote their work so that they can live by creating. But, really, what does this entire stock exchange of art and its investors have to do with the cultural needs of society, with the genuine artistic expression of creators? What does this have to do with the right of workers and the people to access artistic creation? None at all. It is precisely this captivity of art from entrepreneurship and its unspeakable merchandise that annuls on substance and the popular right to the good of art and distort the motivation of artistic creation. And so that there is no hindrance and objection to this attempted extension of marketing to the operation of museums, in particular to what we are discussing, do you leave out of his administration even outside his artistic committee who? The artists themselves, since the Chamber of Visual Arts of Greece, which is the collective representative of visual artists and a consistent fighter of art trade, is exiled by the new metropolitan organization. At the same time, however, the door of this organization opens wide open to private collectors and businessmen "masks". And don't tell us, Minister, about the position you finally grant as a government to the Chamber of Arts in the five-member tax collector, who is now being dissatisfied with the Department of Contemporary Art, because this is simply an ashes in the eyes, not only because it relates to one of the four directorates of the organization, but also because its majority remains in the private museums of the association. Why, then, is the Chamber of Arts, representing more than six thousand artists covering the entire range of visual arts limited to one address and not represented in its own committee of art, which also has the overall responsibility for the contributions of the artistic and educational programme and certainly a very serious role? Of course, we must say here that, even on his nine-member board of directors, there is a position for the President of the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, which may or may not have anything to do with art and culture, but also for a single representative of artists. And finally, so, exoccult factors will define what is art and what will be economically supported and promoted. The bill contains arrangements to enable those who donate projects or collections to participate in even management bodies or institutions that define cultural directions in the new organisation. That is enough, we think, to show the strong link between the new body and capital and those - in introductory terms - 'donors' or investors'. "To bind the sweet" of this policy, the bill, of course, provides for the recruitment of contract workers, including contract workers, or even the award of entire sectors of the organization to external partners in the event of a lack of staff. We understand a museum of art as a collective task of artists and scientists involved with artistic creation, by studying, analysing, researching and highlighting it. The administration for us of such a museum can only be established equally by representatives of scientific and artistic institutions and bodies. The bill mentions too much, but absolutely nothing, no thought at all or no provision for how the people's world of Thessaloniki and the whole country will meet these treasures of art. The same is true of the most serious problem of the new organization of these museums. What's the problem? But the lack of suitable spaces for the exhibition of their collections. The example of the Kostaki Collection is characteristic. Never this most important collection ever was exhibited in Thessaloniki, except in part only. And the cause, of course, is one. The inappropriateness of the Lazares Monastery wherever it is located. And while since 2006, the site of the former factory of HYFANET in Kato Toumba has been purchased by the Ministry of Culture, in order to house the State Museum of Contemporary Art and the Collection Kostaki, no government has done anything about it, with the place of HYFANET devastated at the mercy of a conquest of a person who is designated as "anti-ministers". At the last committee meeting last Friday, the government announced that YfANET has now been declassified from the typical seat of this museum. This means, of course, that the problem of the absence of public spaces for visual exhibitions is even more acute, so that visual artists and, in particular, young people are slaves to all kinds of mediators and businessmen who control and all the exhibition spaces. Nor do we forget - and we must not forget, in our opinion - that visual artists in our country remain unsafe for their artistic work, despite the repeated legislative proposals made by the Chamber of Arts. I would also like to make a little comment - and we have said it before yesterday - on the pretexts - that is the term used by the bill - regarding delimitation, that is to say, tour of the history of art. Are these prevailing views - art theories irrelevant to the business activities of the various managers or brokers or traders of art, or are these prevailing views finally linked to all of them in order to support their art collections and manage, as well as their market value? Why are we asking - we are asking - that a work of art that has been coming since the 1960s and not that work that is being done today or at most in a depth of thirty years? Why, then, should modern art be aesthetic and not a time definition and a term? How does the history of art stand to be considered abstractly outside society, without any connection to history and its driving force that is class struggle? I shall close, Mr President - and thank you for the tolerance - with one conclusion. And with the current government the same policy continues in culture, condemning cultural life in continuous degradation and most artists - creators in a hard struggle for survival. And when does that happen? Today, the universal access of the people to art and culture is necessary and realistic, especially at the same time as the market patterns of the cultural industry are flooding increasingly in the sub-Culture boulder. But for it, however, the universal access of the people to art requires an exclusively public mechanism by state bodies operating in social planning, control, a decisive role for the authors themselves and with state funding, so that art from a merchandise and a monopoly of the dominant class - because it is today - is a property and a weapon of the people. Why can and must a museum or a national institution for strengthening and developing artistic creation really mean what today? Does it have to be designed to communicate all art, all of society with art, or to be an entrepreneurial press mechanism that will deepen the commercialisation of art? The bill selects the second one, and that is why we are of course voting against it both in its entirety and in its articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister Collia-Tsarouha has the floor to present the amendment on the area in PAOK. How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u31	Five to six minutes, Mr President. I will not delay this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u32	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity to intervene to support it. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the government policy and in particular of the effort made by the Ministry of National Defence and the Minister Panos Kammenos to make use of the property of the Armed Forces with mutual benefit for both the Armed Forces and especially the Greek citizens, the procedures for granting inactive camps and military facilities, which are no longer used operationally, have been initiated. This policy, therefore, of the Ministry of National Defence is entirely in line with the expressed government's will to take action leading to the removal of the consequences of the economic crisis, which has been tempting our country for some ten years now. In particular, the proposed regulation defines the basic regulatory framework for the concession of land ownership of the National Defence Fund, the well-known HETH, and the Greek State in the amateur sport club under the name Panthessaloniki Sports Group of Constantinoples, the well-known PAOK, in order to allow the construction of new sports and related support facilities, which will fully meet the current international standards and fulfil the statutory purpose of this historical association. With the granting of a total area of twenty-one thousand, eighty-four square meters to PAOK’s historic sport club, with a history of over ninety years in Greek sport, there is a public interest as well as the upgrading of existing sports facilities and the construction of new international standards to serve complementary functions and accompanying uses. This will significantly upgrade the area of the Municipality of Thessaloniki, which will contribute to the development and general promotion of the Greek football, while, for both the implementation of the project and after it, new jobs will be created, which is particularly important due to unemployment, which is afflicting the wider area of Thessaloniki and Thessaloniki. Furthermore, such upgrading of sports facilities will ensure the creation of a platform that meets the current safety requirements of athletes, viewers, workers and residents, on the one hand, and, on the other, the strengthening of security against external threats, emergency events and acts of violence and, on the other, the adoption of environmental standards and practices in the operation of new facilities. Thus, the benefits for local society are felt to be serious and assured, unlike other concessions which may be directly or indirectly pressed for the development of such facilities, former military, which unfortunately often delay. This allocated area, therefore, around thirty acres perimeter and impractically of the existing PAOK territory, in the area of Upper Toumba and within the administrative boundaries of the Municipality of Thessaloniki, in a place where the First Arch of Vehicles of the Third Body of the Army, these existing military facilities have been not used operationally for many years and were thus assigned by decision of the military organs at the HETHA for use. Here I must stress that in the context of the protection of the public interest and the safeguarding of a zero burden on the administration of the concession, there are detailed provisions for the taking over by the concessionaire of all the actions and obligations necessary for the completion of the concession and for the execution of the planned work, and it is clearly foreseen that if the purpose of the concession is not issued and is not successful within four years of the adoption of the relevant Presidential Decree, it may be lifted. I think it is a serious insurance policy that I believe and hope it does not have to be implemented. Provision has also been made for the protection of the natural environment and for the protection and promotion of the archaeological site of the region. Mr President, I will not go into the individual articles of the amendment, which are 10, but, as I said before, they ensure that the association is authorised to operate, to take all the necessary steps to implement this. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. A number of specific categories are set, which will be implemented in accordance with our legislation and I am going to go through with some reference to them to conclude. To conclude, I would like to end by stressing, Mr President, that the proposed regulation does not impose any burdens on the State budget, nor does it cause adverse effects on the natural or cultural environment, nor does it impose any time or bureaucratic burden on the public administration. On the contrary, it is expected to have a very positive effect, as we have said, on local and wider sport, but in particular along with the major projects that are under way and are being completed, they can prove themselves to reduce unemployment something that will make the presence of this sport centre around PAOK very important and creative. I therefore think it is a great gift for Thessaloniki, for the wider region of Macedonia and for Thrace, which, together with the completion of the metro, the upgrading of the port, the development of the airport of Macedonia along with the Egnatia railway and the vertical axes take out Macedonia and Thrace, which, unfortunately, has been in the past few years and make it a key factor in development in south-eastern Europe and the wider Balkans. In other words, Mr President, more sport, more growth, more jobs, that means granting these areas to the well-known PAOK association. I hope that colleagues will vote for it so that the dream of many, the owners and people who are fighting every day but above all the people who believe in this great sports club can be realised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Minister. Mr Konstantinos Zouraris, from the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, my respects. It is pleasant because it is one of the rare times that I have the happiness of being so happy about a subject that I have lived in Thessaloniki for fifty-five years, whose museum I am a donor. There are, through my late wife of Magda Kotzia, who is of course the founder of Exantas, and within the museum works collectors mine, as a collector. Comrade Giannis, I'm a donor, not in introductorys, in the museum. I could perhaps also be on the board of directors, but I agree that the majesty of capitalism not only alters the trend and the artistic dimension, but at the same time affects choices, markets, sponsorships. Therefore, today's activity and offering for art is at the same time, and during our confusing time, a commercial-minded event that has the elements of capitalism, as well as the elements of philosophicalism. After all, and Phoenix, since they accused him of hiding the gold and had taken care of the gold of the chrysophantine to go up to be able to measure it, they closed it in. From Nebuchadnezzar to Hammurabi we know that art is always funded by systems that are not personally, are not collectively, are state, capitalist, when there was no capitalism. The problem with art - because I don't intend to talk about algorithm, because I'm a total scroll in the algorithm, I got four mathematicians explaining to me, and at the end I managed to make them not understand the algorithm either - is this. Comrades, this malicious, socialist-realism, and when it was also socialist lyricism of Tarkovski, with the first poets, had an element that gave a firm reference to the validity of artists' philosophy. What? Approximately the third, what is the truth that Plato is, that is, there was a reference or reference to some truth that, of course, as a truth of beauty, always has the corrupt element of man. However, socialist realism may at one time have been the atalant or extremism, for example, in what we were saying at the time, 'the personality of stalinism' etc., but it had a stable condition, as Plato defines and in his seventh letter, when he insists that four elements should in any case be involved in his social function, for example in his military service, in order to be more than fifty years of age, i.e. not to be his homeopathic hawas, as I would say in other hours. So we can't avoid it, because it's endemic since we've had a philosopher. At one time, when we will not have the effect of money, which is now brutal, we will have no alteration, but certainly the complex one, the most relevant one between philosophicalism as a project and the imposition of external elements of social power of money and perhaps, if money is abolished, of another kind of power. So that's gonna be permanent. I am therefore very pleased that Thessaloniki finally acquires something that had to be done. In these three museums, and especially in one, in which I have the intimacy, in the Macedonian Museum of Contemporary Art, which is fifty - sixty years old attempt and we have always been stuck on the issue of material media and natural donations, the creation of an institutional framework now allows this interference to be managed in the existence of the institution of money, of bad money and at the same time the formation of the popular character, because they belong to the people, even in the form of a state that is historical, of our current state. These belong to the people. The county, as you quite rightly said, the concession to foreign museums, etc., is not bad, it has always been about. It is not bad, it is good, and now it can be done in terms that ensure our own valid and some security against insurance companies, particularly the critical mass for our Thessaloniki, which at last allows some form of philosophical education. These three joint museums can also organise a daily teaching course, of course in cooperation with the schools in the region and the universities, a type of apprenticeship of young people - the great ones, however, are in lifelong education - so that it can be done at the same time - before it was not done - the possibility of parallel education for children, until they finish the university, under conditions which will have a repetition and which, in any case, will also have a support for teaching. On the other hand, we also have the well - known of contemporary art. When an Italian, five to six years ago, put in twenty boxes, I think, his feces, which were sold - I don't remember what's his name - e, this squirrel is in the nature of man. They're not really...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u36	It's not a mess.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u37	In other words, the feces were not purely capitalist, they were the most connected of the anthropological scale. We can't avoid it. In fact, I would say this: in paradoxically reversal, it is the existence, for example, in the museum that I love, and I know it well, in the Macedonian Museum of Contemporary Art, of a percentage of works of unbelievable nonsense, of looting and of lack of any reportability to the third party what is true or what is going on in the original. For these are the two references between his Byzantine imperative command on the original, so we have a point and it is not what goes down or what goes up. On the other hand, because we cannot avoid it, the possibility of this evil art within this collective mania has again a pedagogical character by reverse. I would therefore say that only positive elements, even if we take this into account, have the existence of the three small museums, the three vulnerable museums, which now acquire a mass that will allow them to function and at the same time to discipline. So I'm very happy. I shall therefore vote for what those who have the good witness of the initiative will say. Because I'm a fifty-seven-year donor and not an admissionist. Otherwise, colleague, you're right about too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Gregory Psarianos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. It's very difficult for someone to talk after Costa Zourri. I'll try it. The establishment of this organization is the epitome of a long and multi-teaching process of a vision that has been dragging away for many years and which is now becoming a reality and can finally, at least, begin. Now, we do not know how and how much it will go ahead and in what ways, since we do something like this when we see what they have done in other countries, how they have beenhaved in combination, founding or settlement of loose ends, even in legislation, since we will not discover either the wheel or the powder. Some others have done it before and perhaps better than us. It would be nice sometimes to see what they have done elsewhere and to try to do it on the basis of our own data and our own reality. What we are doing now, in principle, is on the right track. However, the loose ends remain as to whether and how it will be implemented, without becoming a tool of detainment, clientisation, and set-up and a step-by-step. The idea and request of the combination of the two major museums of contemporary art, the State Museum of Contemporary Art and the Macedonian Museum of Contemporary Art, started from the beginning of the 2000s on the Ministry of Culture of Petros Tatoulis. The merger plan began to be debated effectively in 2010, ten years later. The then Minister of Culture, Paul Geroulanos, commissioned a team of his associates to prepare the project. The group has prepared the draft and prepared the legislative text and the institutional framework for its implementation, which have found a positive response from all institutions - basically from the two museums - with only a few minor disagreements on two, three issues. The draft law was completed, but the May 2012 elections came and did not go ahead. In 2013, the then Deputy Minister, Costas Javaras, raised the issue. And yet this announcement and the draft law that followed were cancelled during the remodeling of June 2013. His successor didn't proceed with the plan. This project has been undone with the Baltas Ministry and then reheated in Xydakis Ministry and Lydia Connordos. The plan went on to discuss, but it was not discussed, it was not completed. He didn't move on. Now, I think we are in the final straight line at the initiative of the Government and Minister, Mr Zorba. The Metropolitan Organisation of Visual Arts, the MOMUS as it will be called from now on, will be a fact from the beginning of 2019. It took many years, many ministers, many governments to mature the innovative combination of two legal persons, what we have said. It took more than ten months to create and sign a programme agreement. It also took several months to table and debate this bill in this House. The bill concludes the legislative process for the creation of a single metropolitan organization that will include the State Museum of Contemporary Art, the Macedonian Museum of Contemporary Art, the Museum of Photography of Thessaloniki, the Centre of Contemporary Art of Thessaloniki and the Museum of Contemporary Art Alex Mylon. Thessaloniki is the city of about thirty museums in total. However, both Thessaloniki and the Greek State must see these in a uniform and complete way, in the good sense. The Macedonian Museum of Contemporary Art had reached an economic stalemate three years ago, fired all its staff, suspended its operation due to difficulties, while the National Museum of Contemporary Art of Thessaloniki also experiences serious cuts here in its budget and building asphyxiation there, since its typical headquarters were the factory of HYFANET. We discussed it in the committees, but the bill did not contain the position of abolishing the typical seat of the State Museum of Contemporary Art in Thessaloniki. We have now abolished it and delivered it to the occupation, which has lasted for months and we do not know at all how long it will last. It will therefore be the office of the occupation and for the next period of time until some time the captivity decides to leave, or a rugged cultural movement to remove them with Roman ministers. Unfortunately, we did not move on to this institution and typically the seat of the State Museum of Contemporary Art of Thessaloniki in YfANET, a building that was bought with more than 10 million euros years ago and that was devastated. The new museum organization is the largest museum organization of the Ministry of Greece and also of the Balkans possibly. The dynamics resulting from the combination of thousands of works of art of Greek and international, unique historical and aesthetic value are achieved to meet the needs of both the market and the public of the 21st century. This is why the museum is made, and that is why all these masterpiece collections of all the actors involved in MOMUS are gathered. The idea is hopeful, provided that it is properly managed. We mention some indicative conditions. There must be common economic planning, capable human resources, not our clients and voters, and nods and heterogeneous. Also, there must be appropriate people in the appropriate places to know this object and these recruitments and locations must be declared with a detailed description of positioning requirements and matching them with competences and qualifications. To cooperate effectively at all levels and avoid possible internal conflicts and conflicts or misguided competitions. There must also be effective management of collections. To have an innovation and an open horizon in the thoughts and ways that we are implementing the programme and the system for this organisation, as well as for everyone else. Finally, to ensure economic sustainability, to develop a self-financed and resource search strategy. In itself, the notion of a 'combination of powers' rather than a 'concentration' does not imply the effective creation and operation of a new organisation, a new body. In practice, it must be demonstrated that this is not an absorption of neither a merger nor a Statement of Statement and that none of the bodies participating in the new project are removed from the new project, to the new body. The project must demonstrate in practice that it is not a mere outline with general objectives of a simple house. Otherwise, there is a risk that the final form of the administrative organisational arrangement will prove chaotic. It should be mentioned here that, according to the report by the State General Accounting Office, some indicative financial results generated on the state budget are a loss of revenue from tax, collecting fees and duties, photography, archiving materials and other art objects related to the objectives of the organization. On the budget of the metropolitan organisation, we have an annual expenditure of around EUR 25 000 from the payment of a responsibility allowance to six new heads of organisation, an annual expenditure estimated at around EUR 140,000 - 137 we have measured them with a ceiling - from the setting up of a Director-General and two new directors. Here, let us say that directors who enter agencies must be placed in a way of elite. In other words, it cannot have thirty two directors, chiefs, etc. with five employees. We have too many such organisations that have twenty heads, ten managers and one employee. We hope here that the pyramid will be backwards and that there will be a centralized diligence of the whole operation of the organization, of this great organization, and a distribution of activities and responsibilities depending on the tree, with the pyramid that is running and running and envisioning the future of this organization. Any annual expenditure, the amount of which is not also resulting from the possibility of setting up new units, as well as the recruitment of staff, the award of projects to external partners and consultants, the summary of rental and award contracts. All this needs to be looked at because, in a merger, we are mainly expected to save resources and we need to save resources. However, we need to see how we maximise the profits and benefits of this creation of a metropolitan body of this type and of such size and quality that we want to be and function. Thus, it can be compared with the additional costs expected to arise in the state budget and in the budget of the new agency. In other words, we must be careful not to open up the bundle of costs and the smuggling of public money. On the contrary, we need to ensure a profit and benefit from the establishment of such an organisation. The bill concludes legally a polypathic procedure. It's in the right direction, as we said. But it must not be understood that it will solve all the problems in the way they are done. Many proposals have been made in committees and by bodies hearing and by the opposition parties and by colleagues. The Minister said: 'Oh, I agree with that, but let us leave it now', 'Oh, and I agree with that, but let us leave it now.' We talked about it in committee too. In three or four key points of the bill, the Minister agreed that changes should be made, but in the first phase, let us not make them. That's how we've come up at the moment. The word 'finds' is in the good sense. I hope that these changes will have to be made along the way and be efficient, creative and deliver the results we really want - and I say again -, recruitment, rhetoric and the assignment of work to 'logues', especially when we see that this plan, which is being drawn up over so many years and that it has not been done last year or even before that government, is now a few weeks, months before the elections. So we make a great museum in Thessaloniki. We can build a field, give land and do various other things, rather to balance the mess that we had from the management of another serious, big issue concerning Macedonia and northern Greece. So these election tricks are well known by all governments. For decades we have all remembered them - and we have all been young and young - but I think that we have been completely in red. In other words, we have given rise to settlements, arrangements, election announcements, benefits, etc. We hope that this will move forward, as it has to go forward, to see what legislative improvements we will be able to make in subsequent phases, so that this agency, which is absolutely necessary and we have been delayed for decades to form it. We shall vote at first, we shall support the bill. We will refuse to vote on specific articles photographing "days", appointments, settlements, etc. For the amendments we reserve. However, we will vote'representations' to all, unless something changes along the way, because we have said that when three, four, five, seventeen amendments are tabled to each bill together with any legislative improvements to hot paper at the last moment, which we have not even seen, we cannot vote or vote against. It's like they didn't come. So we shall vote on the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u40	Yes, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-seven students and students and four school attendants from the Sourpi School of Magnesia. Welcome to the Greek Parliament, guys! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Dimitrios Kavaleslas has the floor from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport entitled 'Creating a Metropolitan Organization of the Museum of Visual Arts of Thessaloniki'. The long, forgotten, wronged Thessaloniki deserves too much. For Greece, however, culture is of particular importance. Located in the DNA of the Greeks, it's in the DNA of Greece. It is a country - an impediment to Greece, a country where fate has brought it to crossroads of cultures. He's fought long and survived and will survive forever. On the other hand, it has managed to create culture of all human value. We need vitally to preserve our cultural wealth. It is not only that, today, cultural tourism has an important role to play, which is also a strong paper for our economic survival, since it will generate valuable revenue for the country. The other is that the preservation of our cultural wealth keeps our identity for now and for the future under threat of multicultural theories and influences supposedly of civilizations that amputate women, which impose the inequalities between the two sexes. We will soon be called upon to deal with this. In this context, therefore, we must all'stop'. It is not meant to allow vandalism phenomena of historical exhibits of our museums. There's no excuse, no tolerance. It is not meant not to fight archipelago. The day before they held a meeting in a tavern of supposedly archaeologists and forgot to enter a sack with erects, with antiquities. It is not about long-term anticipation in queues of publishing, and we need to find a solution to the issue of visitability. Trade unions blackmail by closing archaeological sites and, of course, depriving people who have travelled from the end of the world of the opportunity to rejoice and recognize the greatness of Greece. We are going to legislate on a matter of crucial importance for the city of Thessaloniki, as well as for the people of art. Here is one question: Who will choose and describe what is this art? Is she modern, oldest? What will be the criteria? Will it be cultural or political? There's a strong doubt here, my own. But why, while the issue - research at least - has been closed since 2017, that is, the address of the problem of the combination of museums already in the spring of 2017 has been in the press and the public consultation on the draft law has evolved at the beginning of the summer of 2017, have we arrived just before the municipal elections to discuss it? Probably because some excellence organizations have occupied buildings for housing collections and you don't want to be sad about them. As always, you're delaying, indecisive! And to get in on the substance, the draft law is made up of twenty articles. In particular, in Article 1, which concerns the legal form and purpose of the metropolitan organisation, we shall vote 'yes'. Article 2 shall apply to the Governing Council. We will say 'the present' here, because of course they will all be yours. In Article 3, for the Director-General, we will say'residences'. In Article 4 on the structure of the addresses and the artistic committee, we will also say'residences' there. In Article 5 for the Department of Modern Art, which concerns the Museum of Modern Art and the Kostaki Collection, we will say "yes". For the Department of Contemporary Art, about the Museum of Contemporary Art, the Collections of the Macedonian Museum and the State Museum of Contemporary Art, we will say "yes". In Article 7 for the Department of Contemporary Sculpture, which relates to the Mylon Museum, we will say 'yes'. In Article 8 for the Photography Department, which concerns the Museum of Photography of Thessaloniki, we will say "residents", because there is an excessive financial provision for this museum. In Article 9 for the Experimental Research Centre we will say'residents'. In Article 10 for single administrative and auxiliary services and staff will say 'no', because they are racist positions of directors with a huge salary. In Article 11, we will say 'yes'. In Article 12 on resources we will say 'no'. In Article 13 on financial management and control we will say 'no'. It is clear why we say 'no'. In Article 14 on transitional and final provisions, we will say 'yes'. In Articles 15 and 16 on penalties for contracts between museums we will say 'yes'. In Article 17 on the repealed provisions, we shall say 'yes'. As regards the amendments of other ministries that were incorporated into the draft law and some other amendments that came later, we will say 'yes' to Amendment No 1779/34 on the date of deposit of 10-10-2018, which deals with regulation of issues of the Ministry of Interior, amendment of provisions of Law 3852/2010 on the merger of public utilities. Also in 1781/35, with the deposit date 16-10-2018, we will say'residents', because they concern primary and secondary education issues. This is where we need a big word. In Amendment No 1784/2003/36, with the date of deposit of 22-10-2018, which extends the deadlines for submitting objections against posted forest maps, we are voting 'yes'. And Amendment 1785/37 with a deposit date of 22-10-2018 on the granting of an area for nine years to the "Panthesaloniki Sports Group of Constantinople" - that is, PAOK - for the construction of new sports facilities in the club, we will vote 'yes'. We shall vote on all the other amendments. We are against logic at the last minute to have amendments and not to have the opportunity to study what we are voting on. Those to whom we shall vote are other ministries. These are strange things that come at the last minute into the wrong bills. What each of our fellow citizens expects is that the new organization should give its breath cultural, economic, intellectual to the city of Thessaloniki and the country. To do this, it is necessary for his administration to be operational, reliable, flexible, inventive to be present in the facts. I would like to say that it was very important that what was heard at the second meeting of the Committee on Morphic Affairs at the hearing of the bodies. In other words, it has been heard that despite the tragic crisis experienced by the country, museum revenues have, of course, increased due to an increase in public revenue. That's comforting at such a difficult time. What witness more impressive do we need to show the value of our great cultural heritage? It makes every Greek and every Greek woman proud. As I said, in times of difficulty when the need for survival is reducing choices, it seems our fellow citizens are struggling for the fate of those who inherited us by our great fellow citizens. Sadly, despite the positive attitude of experts and the public on this issue, despite the small extent of the draft law, despite the long dialogue, no errors and omissions have been avoided in this draft law which will probably be a brake on the smooth functioning of this organisation. And if these things don't appear today, they'll be on the way because of interoperability. This draft law also follows the fate of other bills that, while approaching high value issues, at some point in the legislative process, stumble. During the committee meetings there have been many points of reference both from colleagues from other parties in opposition and from the Central Association, about the vague qualifications of members in Article 2, about the mobilisation of qualifications in Article 3, and about how there may be a need to legislate on matters of position, such as, for example, the position of the economic director in the same article as we said before, about the secondments, recruitments or works contracts in Articles 4 to 9, about the number of years of the Director's term of office in Article 6, on the revenue allocation algorithm and much more. We, as a Centro Association, raised issues other than Article 6 and paragraph 7, where a four-year term was provided for by the Director. What we understood is that for twelve years this term of office would be total. We are therefore creating status, when there are such a lasting position that are likely to bring the complex. Unless, of course, we consider that there is incredible poverty, so the twelve years of administration by the same executive on our part would be too much, and in your opinion it makes sense. Fortunately, however, after our intervention and position in committee, there has been wisdom. This point has been changed and the renewal of the mandate will be one. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, at the second meeting of the Committee on Morphic Affairs, at the hearing of bodies on this draft law to those who have been attending it or read the minutes, it was understood that our guest representatives of bodies dominated the mere speech, culture, decency, courtesy, and still the anguish of all those who serve this field, the field of culture. Interesting themes, interesting things from people who seem to love what they do and serve with a sense of responsibility have been heard. So we owe our fellow citizens of Thessaloniki, and not only to the high creators of the exhibits, to the executives, to the workers and volunteers of the museums, who have worked and worked responsibly, to form even now in plenary, with a good composition of opinions, a bill of direct functionality, without arrogance, without the authority of our only opinion and without, of course, exclusion. We must agree on how to protect legislative and show legacy of art in order to trust us with our prominent fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The list of special speakers has been closed and before we go to the Members who have been written, Mr Famelos will be given the floor to present the amendment on the time limits for the forest maps. The Minister has also asked for the floor. Then we'll be on the speaker list.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a comment first on Mr Psarian, if you will allow me. Indeed, there are many important issues that have been raised in Parliament over the last few years. I want to assure you that it's not election arrangements. It is the progressive and democratic regularity that has been missing from the country for so many years and relates to insurance contributions, tax contributions, large infrastructure, public goods such as culture. And it is very important that for Thessaloniki where its previous politicians and governments had deprived its right to progress, now there is a new vision and important projects have been dismantling: from PATHE, the power of the railway to the metro and from the Camp Kodra and the Camp Pavlou Mela to the Thermaikos Gulf and the International Exhibition. I think that the contribution of the Ministry of Culture is very important in all projects, both on the subway and on the rest, but also on the specific legislation, which I obviously welcome. This is the normality to which we all have to get used, to making things progressively and democratically in Greece, which were lacking in political responsibilities from previous governments. As far as these amendments are concerned, it regulates them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u44	Four years you haven't done it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u45	Mr Psariano, I know, like you, that some bankrupt my country and put it in memorials, and this government took it out of the memorials, and thank you very much for thanking us for getting together with the Greeks, who were deprived and worked, Greece from the memorials that some have put social, political and economic into bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u46	It's been four years. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Fisherman, I hope you are not nervous because you have participated in such a bankruptcy debate in our country. But today, Mr President, we are discussing two regulations in the forestry legislation concerning the uninterrupted cooperation of forest maps and the implementation of the twenty-year national forestry strategy, because both these issues are examples of trains: the forest maps were not there, even though the Constitution imposed this forty years, Mr Psaryane, and the forestry strategy Greece never had. So, because forests are a key pillar of contribution, both in terms of the natural environment and the development aspect of policy - they have work and income, which was missing from Greece - these are now being implemented with this government, they are linked to climate change, biodiversity, the research strategy, the cyclical economy and we are moving forward in particular to regulation. Up to now we have ratified 32% of forest maps, we have posted 48% of forest maps and you need to know, because we presented it publicly, that the entire eastern Attica of the fire area, including the proclamation of reservoirs, is in post. The Megars, too, are at this time in suspension. The citizens therefore have at their disposal in difficult areas and the forest map and the declaration of resurrectors and a special tool that we are preparing to quickly authorize the restoration of housing in these areas. So this is our initiative. It wasn't until now. It's also happening in Eastern Attica. With this amendment, legislation we are proposing, there is an extension of the areas which ended on 18 October. The areas are Trikala, Kavala, western and eastern Attica. We did it last year. All citizens have five to six months to submit their objections. It is equivalent and the constitutional obligation is also applicable. At the same time, we are making a great deal of progress in the posting we now have. They posted last week and Pickermi, Melissa, Byron, Caesarian, Nea Ionia, Maroussi. The center of Athens didn't recognize forest land, imagine. Of course, Great, Makri, Raphena and the resurrected. At the same time, the regulation on the national strategy provides that for the first time the country will have a forest strategy. There was a provision, an institutional framework for how it would be done, but not for who to ratify it, to understand what deficits we found in the legal support of forestry policy. A very strong series of consultation has been completed in the strategy, and today we are making an improvement so that the Minister can sign it, but also make an action plan to implement it, not just on paper, and this provision for action plans is decisive so that we do not just have a wish. Finally, I would like to say that today it is very important that it has been submitted to today's bill and legislation on the granting of an area to PAOK, on the stadium in Thessaloniki, and that is why sport also lacked in Thessaloniki as well as culture and we are completing a very big gap. This legislation is the absolute implementation of the Prime Minister's statement in the Report. Within a month seven co-legislative ministries have advocated and processed the arrangement, along with PAOK and the Municipality of Thessaloniki. It ensures that we have a state of modern, safe and certified, that the needs of both the citizens and the urban fabric are served. We don't just have the concession of the land, which is free of charge. At the same time, we also have all the arrangements to become a special spatial plan, with land use, altitudes, with agreement on parking, with an agreement with Archaeology and the Ministry of Culture for a common memorandum to accelerate excavations and research. And obviously for the special-purpose company and all the arrangements to make it clear that the special spatial plan will provide that the public nature of the areas, roads and greens, which were, obviously, the operation of these areas, is maintained. All will be included in a special spatial plan. In fact, it is envisaged that these twenty-nine acres should obviously be added to PAOK's ownership that the field will be implemented quickly and that there is also a time limit - an inducement from society to the club, together with a joint agreement, to become quickly. It is planned in four years - we all try to make it the best possible. At the same time, obviously, we have also solved all the issues of derogations so that no more legislative instrument is needed, so that we can go directly to a special spatial plan. The Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Culture will sign the special spatial plan. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] We are ready for these arrangements and I think that what is being done is that Thessaloniki in its vision adds culture, sport, modern infrastructure and that is precisely the democratic normality after the memorandum. That's what this government is. We're really changing the country! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u48	The Minister has the floor, Mrs Zorba. After the Minister, we will start the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a citizen I always liked to see unreasonable rhetoric. That is why I will avoid any challenge, while remaining in the bill for the establishment of a Metropolitan Organisation of Art Arts Museums in Thessaloniki. I think we all owe it, without pretexts, to the predecessors who have worked for this, to the bodies who have worked together for a long time - we have heard it from everyone - to the citizens of Thessaloniki and to the city that this museum wants. With this draft law we propose the institutional framework for the integration of the functions of the State Museum of Contemporary Art, of both parts that it has, of the Museum of Photography of Thessaloniki and of the Centre of Contemporary Art, with the functions of two other important museums, very well-known, operating as utilities until now, the Macedonian Museum of Contemporary Art and the Alex Mylon Museum in Athens. This combination has been behind it, as you have already heard, a long story. It has been announced many times since 2010, but it has so far failed to do so, and it is something the city wants and we think we should feel positive that we are now able to come to the House to vote on it. We believe that this proposal opens up a dynamic prospect in times of transition that leave behind the deep crisis experienced by our society. We want to pay tribute, both to Paul Geroulanos for the start of the project, Minister of Culture since 2010, who took the initiative to consult the issue with the stakeholders and Mr Javarras who went intensively, even to draw up a draft relevant provisions for the merger. However, subsequent leaderships left the project, perhaps within the vortex of the days when the project could not fruit, but also because the merger as a form of law seems impossible to achieve for economic and other reasons. Meanwhile, the economic crisis saw the state grant received by bodies to be dramatically reduced, resulting in - it was said before other colleagues - malfunctions, but even falling for the State Museum of Contemporary Art from 2010 to 2015 by 75%. I think that shows the reality that we needed to resolve and could not solve, of course, within a short period of time. It took plenty of time for operators to agree on several complex issues and also to agree on the architecture that would give a future perspective. So we are here today to see what has happened since 2015 and to say that all three my predecessors - Mr. Xydakis, Mr. Baltas and Mrs. Konordos - from the position of Minister of Culture have gone ahead with a plan for this purpose, whose legal aspects reflect the draft law we have before us today. Our own attempt to prevent the collapse of the public cultural asset has no defensive logic. We are interested in establishing a new dynamic concept for the museum organisation and in this particular case. We'll see it more in the future. We look for strategically to promote a model of museum policy, a public model of museum policy, which gathers and redeploys the living forces, does not leave them at the mercy of their size, where they are small, exploits the cultural wealth available - we know the enormous and amazing prospects of museum collections - and dynamically develops the own resources, which are immovable to the service of the public good. How do we think we're gonna do this? We said before that the Javarra plan could not go ahead because of the merger and for legal reasons, because the public-private institutions could not be merged in accordance with the Constitution. What, therefore, does he do and what goes beyond this plan? It actively restructures the organisational structure of the State Museum of Contemporary Art, so that it can receive appropriately, on the basis of a development of self-interest, the functions associated with the licensed collections. In this project we are implementing the architectural logic of a large, unified cultural platform, which houses a large number of independent museum works. I have said repeatedly - and I say this again - that this needs a balance and has been misunderstood. I believe, however, that if unbalanced is imbalance, this plan is able to be a positive balance plan here. Foreign models were studied as a source of inspiration and information in many places and organizational choices result from them. Some are rushing to criticise this choice, claiming that the standards come from museums much larger. I fear that they are evaded by the essentials, which are irrelevant to sizes, that is, the architectural logic of multiplicity and selfishness within unity with a tool that is basic to synergies. This new logic is being implemented by this project, making a clear distinction between artistic planning and actions carried out by the individual museum works on the one hand and administrative economic functions, which are also necessary in a context of strictness and in dialogue with artistic ones. Thus, we manage to have an economy of scale, where not only costs are being saved, but the foundations are being laid for an effective administrative and economic function in terms of public funding, which is the basis of the project. Thus, more individual museums are organized and operated with each individual administration, the artistic director, which guarantees, precisely, the freedom of artistic work. The Museum of Modern Art will manage the famous Collection of Kostakis as well as collections of works of the new body, before 1960. The Photography Museum will make use of the collections and the great archive and experience of the Thessaloniki Photography Museum. The Museum of Contemporary Art will manage the very important collections of works that result from 1960 onwards. The Alex Mylon Museum manages the Collection of Sculptures Alex Mylonas and will operate as a Department of Contemporary Sculpture of the Museum of Contemporary Art. Finally, the Experimental Centre for Arts will have as its own task the organisation of actions and the promotion of the new experimental artistic creation. The predictions that have also been received are important: The choice of the artistic director with an international competition. I think we need to appreciate that, because we do not have a previous international competition for the artistic director. This was so far appointed by the Minister, and I think it is a good start, which can also continue. The Board of Directors draws up a general cultural policy in which artistic directors will be able to develop artistic work. The Director-General shall ensure the proper administrative and financial functioning and the reasonableness of the budget. We therefore have a architecture in which bodies can find their function, their cooperation and the bodies of this large organisation, the platform, can develop their functions through dialogue, with identified programming powers, and that can contribute to the best result. In the case of the Museum of Contemporary Art at the Museum of Thessaloniki, we have the ability to be responsible, which at the moment can help the museum to function in a much more effective way, and therefore we also have ensured representatives of collective bodies, who will be able to participate in artistic activities - and not in administrative activities, of course, which are not their responsibility - to contribute to the work and presence of the museum in the outside world. We believe that the proposed structure is innovative in its design and realistic in its implementation. It is innovative because it balances the need for the outcome of administrative unity and autonomy and is realistic because it can have a cohesion that will result. I would like to stress that now the State Museum of Contemporary Art, the Macedonian Museum, Alex Mylonas are decentralized units of the same single body. In other words, we have a new museum, which has a Directorate-General, a single staff, budget and services. That is what, in our view, ensures efficiency. We are determined to support it decisively in its start-up, as it seems from its funding, with all the funding and with an additional amount that has so far been financed by the cultural sector, i.e. EUR 1,200,000. I would, however, like to point out how modest this funding is, recalling that the annual funding of the State Museum alone, at the time of prosperity, was up to two million. Today, the amount we have represents a smaller amount, but the museum must be based on the activities for which it will be able to develop, through its new mechanism, while its operating costs, through this amount, are guaranteed. Since all of us have been very surprised so far in previous years with international successes, we believe that their mobilisation, in order to cover artistic actions from sponsorships, European programmes and a dynamic that will have a greater connection with society, will be ensured. So we expect that the development plan that is currently spread in four places in the city of Thessaloniki and one in Athens, with sales, tickets and all the modern ways, which we do not need to mention, which today operate the museums, will be able to find its way very quickly. The benefit, therefore, from the project of pooling the functions of museums is above all the new body itself, the Metropolitan Organisation of Visual Arts or - as we have already called it - MOMUS. He is the greatest supervised by the Ministry of Culture by a museum organisation in Greece in terms of collections and dynamic multiple actions, and this is a real investment, which I think at the moment we are able to carry out, without waste, wisely and with a view to success. The logic of the single platform of several museums is to influence the economic soundness of the whole as a whole in the autonomous promotion of artistic species, without limitations or arbitrary priorities or limited and at the expense of others. The complex functional structure of the new organisation reflects and ensures the complex but also open to the unforeseen future dimensions of the single public good of culture and aesthetic education within a democratic society. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Minister. We will start with the list of speakers and, because they have already stated four parliamentary representatives that they want to intervene, we will go two speakers, one parliamentary representative. So I call to Stepma Mrs. Alonitou from SYRIZA. Then there's Mr. Saridis, and then Mr. Iliopoulou, the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today under the title "Creation of a Metropolitan Museum of Visual Arts of Thessaloniki and other provisions" is a real part of the museums that are going on in the country. In fact we are today discussing the combination of the administrative and artistic functions of the State Museum of Contemporary Art and its parts, i.e. the Museum of Photography of Thessaloniki and the Centre of Contemporary Art of Thessaloniki on the one hand and the Macedonian Museum of Contemporary Art and the Museum of Contemporary Art Alex Mylonas, which belongs to the section of the Macedonian Museum, although it has a seat in Athens. After many years of discussion and consultation on this issue, which earlier governments discussed ways of merging and purchasing museum operators, which would cost not only a loss of jobs of many employees, but would be impracticable for every well-meaning institution to have potential for development and perspective, the right legal solution to the merger of museums under a single organisation was finally found. So the legal person of the State Museum of Contemporary Art is associated with that of the public-owned institution of the Macedonian Museum under the cover and supervision of a legal person of private law of a single metropolitan organisation called "Metropolitan Organization of Museums of Visual Arts of Thessaloniki" and supervised by the Ministry of Culture and Sports. The important thing, however, is that this organization is carried out with the consent of the institutions, without being imposed by the Ministry of Cape Verde on the method of restructuring and operation, which is not understood by the Opposition, which it considers to be a vision deficit of the Ministry. This, ladies and gentlemen, is also our different concept of cultural things. The fact that the players themselves, the artists themselves, have been talking about how they operate, and this government has repeatedly shown that it respects civil society, that it listens to those who know things better than anyone, and that it does not seek to impose their own concepts on them is an uncomfortable, strange part, unprecedented part of the unprecedented part, I would say, of the opposition that it considers that even in art it will impose its own way of operation. With two long-term concessions of exclusive use and not ownership, the new organization will have a structure such as to welcome all collections, such as the famous Kostakis collection hosted in the largest museums in the world, as well as collections of contemporary art and important historical collections. It will also welcome all the facilities, assets of individual entities, protecting the objectives of public-private institutions. It will welcome equipment and all the employees, while the two private museums will continue to supervise their valuable collections and will not transfer their existing debts to the new public body from the past. It is important that the new organisation will continue to be supported by all the current grants to the supervised institutions, thereby ensuring an economy of scale, as the single operating scheme ensures not only common administrative and financial functions, but also joint management activities, so great opportunities for cooperation on common objectives. In addition, the state budget will assist the Agency's development plan, which will provide new opportunities with educational programmes, exhibitions, lending and project sales. In other words, the new structure of the single organisation ensures development prospects and thus ensures the sustainability of its operators. A resource allocation algorithm is being created, which aims to save resources, but not at the expense of each body. It should also be noted that, in order to create this project as a whole, international experience has been exploited by renowned international organisations, which aim on the one hand at the economic viability of the models, but on the other hand, none of the existing schemes will lose their self-interest. Named and successful activities, such as the "Bennale of Contemporary Art" with the emergence of new creators and the "Thessaloniki Photo Biennale", will continue to exist and develop. The structure of the new organization is simple, with nine-member board of directors, one director-general, three directorates and one independent department, which is subject to the Director-General and assists his work through the Arts Committee, without meaning that there is no complete distinction between administrative and artistic matters, while each body retains its autonomy. The important thing is that the criteria and procedures for selecting management bodies are a product of agreement between the bodies. In conclusion, I would like to point out that this new innovative project, MOMUS, as abbreviatedly called, will start its course in a few days as the country's largest museum player. The cooperation developed in this museum project in the historic city of Thessaloniki, which is the crossroads of cultures, will lead to the further improvement of the operation of this project, giving all citizens the fruits of the cultural good, not only to the few and chosen, but also to the example of other museums in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, culture, arts, is the best exportable product in the country. It is what unites us and I call on the Opposition to come for this effort, voting in favour of today's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u52	Mr Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Thessaloniki has never wanted to be a problem for anyone and for anything. Thessaloniki has been seeking for centuries, not to be the problem. It seeks to trouble those responsible, to think about those who think they know it all, to question directly those who believe it to be them and others are not. Thessaloniki is in itself a living work of art, a teaching work of art and culture, colleague Triantafylides. It's a painting that can upset rusty minds, colleague Mitafidis. It's a song that can relax the pain, my colleague Fridaypoulou. It's a poem that changes your mood, Mr. Amanatidis. The city itself has the heart of artist and in its heart has all artists and amateurs. It was based on them, on them it was built. Ladies and gentlemen, Thessaloniki continues until today to be a safe haven for every thinking person, who dares to ask why, who dares to question everything they impose on us, at the same time as citizens as a whole, that is, as a city, manages to put in a unique way unanswered questions, even if they could at some point be answered. So we are here today, in Athens, to legislate on the sustainability of the museums in Thessaloniki. This is the point, the viability of the museums of Thessaloniki. This is essentially the decision we are called upon to make here today, namely whether we will do something, at last, to support the city of Thessaloniki, which is standing alone and without any assistance to the challenges of the times, keeping Greekism up and decent, thereby honoring the immortal spirit of our ancestors, their thirst for freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that the provisions of this bill, with the exception of the least, must be fully supported by the Greek Parliament. This is an organized attempt to rationalise, for a well-structured initiative of serious people, without egos, without endless hidden objectives, without any smallness, which has the sole purpose of saving those works of art and culture that save our souls, which save us from ourselves. I would like to make a comment on Amendment No 1785/37 concerning the granting of an area for nine years in PAOK for the construction of new sports facilities. You are wrong, ladies and gentlemen, if you think we are doing this because of PAOK or Thessaloniki, by voting on this amendment. This is a debt we have to repay and we are paying out today in the Greek Parliament and not for the sake of doing so and that is due to us in the future. We owe this grace, this initiative in the land of Thessaloniki, the Panthesaloniki Sports Group of Constantinople. And we're doing well, and we've been giving it up for ninety years. We're good. I wish that these concessions were more than the ones we make incubating. So, of course, I will be voting in favour of this amendment with both hands - which say - knowing that I owe it and not that I do a favor. I would therefore urge you to do the same for all the Members, all the colleagues, in all the parties. I also invite you to vote to ensure the future of the Thessaloniki Museums: The future, ladies and gentlemen, can only be guaranteed by people who know their past, who know their history. The history of Thessaloniki, therefore, the history of Macedonia has found shelter in these museums. And this story is full of battles that seemed impossible to win, but were given. It is full of struggles that reason condemned them as in vain, but they never ceased to be given. It is full of men and women whose will has not been broken before inhuman dilemmas. That is why Thessaloniki, Macedonia, will never be convinced that the Prespecies Agreement is something good, something beneficial, something that promotes peace. Those who support this agreement claim to be a success, because in this way the Skopje recognise that they have nothing to do with Macedonia of Alexander the Great. And you insist on reminding us that a hundred forty or a hundred fifty countries - the whole planet, I would say, let it be - have already recognized this part of the Balkan land as "Macedonia". So I answer you once again. If we have reached the point where we need a signature on an old card to make sure that the sun comes out of the east, then we are worthy of our destiny. Did the signature of Mr. Kotzia and his Skopje counterpart wait for the story to feel safe? So you're telling us, thank God these great men signed the truth, why without them the truth would be lost in the purpose books? As for the dozens of countries that Skopje recognized as "Macedonia", I would like to reply to you this: the governments of these States have done so. Ask all their academics, ask their scientists, ask their artists and teachers. Ask all those who want - do not want, will learn names and feats of Greeks when they go to their universities. They'll learn the law, medicine and every science. For every country, then, which has recognized them, I will also promote you a different science based on the work of the Greeks. So those of you who intend to vote for the Prespecies Agreement, do yourself a favor and vote for today's bill and perhaps history will judge you with care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u54	Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Ilioopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. I note in recent years that the republic of SYRIZA, which is so evangelized and invoked, ends where its ideas begin. So in the last few days, as in last year, the Ministry of Education - without the 'national' - has been trying to force Greek schools to teach children of illegal immigrants. Some parents - in honor of them - react. And SYRIZA comes to criticise them, send them the police, send them to the prosecutors, commonly terrorize them, because they do not give in to the calls of the times and the new order. SYRIZA is trying to enforce us the law of George Soros in our home country through programs that have been unfolded in recent years and are financed by the specific and other entrepreneurs and are trying to land our country, trying to replace the Greek population by foreigners. Throughout this project, children of illegal immigrants are also being forced into our schools. Of course, Mr. Tsipras does not send his child to a public school to come in contact with the culture of these children. He sends them to the Hill School, doesn't take them to the public school of Kipseli to associate with the poppies who learn to handle knives almost shortly after birth. However, the poor Greek wants his child to associate with Greeks. He wants his child to progress, he wants to receive the Greek education. One cannot, with any undemocratic dimension, impose one's own ideas. He wants his child, the Greek, away from Islam, he wants it away from the tuberculosis, away from the cholera, away from the other diseases. I had taken my kid to make a vaccine, and they told us we had to do them a guess. We say: “Why should we make a mistress for them? These diseases have disappeared from our country." "You're wrong," the pediatrician tells us. ‘They have disappeared from Greece, but from Pakistan and third countries have not disappeared’. You will not infect our children or with these mixtures of religion, peace, as you say in religious, Islam, nor with disease. And for you to know, you so-called democrats, who have bloodshed Europe in France, Belgium, England, Germany, Spain, in all the countries, who have bloodshed the capitals and other cities of these countries were second generation children, which means that they had received the corresponding French, Belgian, English education and thanks to them were to blood the homes that hosted them. There is a great politician, a neighbour of Italy, Matteo Salvini, a true patriot, standing next to our country, but for his country he offers at this crucial moment for Europe, where the values of the country, the family, religion, are swept away, humiliated, thrown into garbage, the crosses are destroyed. There is a giant right there, in Italy, who has little to do with the pretexts, so that Europe does not fall completely into the hands of the Islamics, something which will happen very soon, if people do not wake up not only in Greece, if the peoples of the whole of Europe do not wake up, if they do not wake up and throw away those who others are trying to do - I say again - to impose us. The Mayor of Thessaloniki himself said the day before - and he probably didn't play this news, because it didn't help anyone to be heard by Boutaris - and I will read it as he said: "There are," he says, "suspects that among them, illegal immigrants, "there are too many who are militant Islamists". The Mayor of Thessaloniki saw it. This great anti-fascist said this proposal. Of course he was buried. No, you will not force us neither the law of George Soros nor the law of Sharia in our country nor throughout Europe. We'll wake up and resist your plans. We have other cases of graphics like Mr. Gabroglou, which, for his sake, closes one university after another. Last week the Philosophy was closed because of 'Ruvia' and tomorrow - just before that news came out - the Economic University will be closed because of drug dealers. These are the universities of today, this is the education you want for the Greeks and we soon hope that this whole situation will change. Not with your own government, but with some next national government clearly and I mean. So listen to what Gabriel said about "Rubicon". Where is it, he says, the student movement? Where are students to claim their spaces and academic peace? So he calls on this great pacifist, Gavroglou, students to wear the helmets, also to take a helmet, to confront and banish the "Rubbicon". What the state has to do is ask Gabroglou to do it by the students. He has not realised that he is a Minister of Education, that he represents the Greek state and that he must impose what is scary to sound, even from New Democracy, law and order. So simple! Another statement by Gavroglou I shall read, to laugh, since it is the bill in this committee. After the fire in Heraklion Crete, which was burned by the student hall, listen to what the Minister said about the inhabitants of Heraklion: You can't, he says, make a deposit on a 100-euro account and think you did your duty. So, were the students left outside of the student hall and Gavroglou left to whom does he throw them? To the inhabitants of Heraklion, who did not show solidarity with the students. With what you're saying, you've killed reason. There is no logic either in your statements or in your legislation. No matter where we take them, we see an absurdity. We now come to the big issue, which is, of course, the scorpion and not the 'Macedonian'. There is no 'Macedonian', we should not have discussed with these gypsies, we should have imposed our own positions as a large and independent country. Of course, what are our positions? Those who are benefiting the Americans today, from what it turns out, because it was a bell-de-fer between Russia and America, and so far looks like the eighty of the eighties that Zafe found that America is winning and we are moving to see. Greece has no role, it has no involvement. Greece does what they tell her, dances at the American dance. In fact, the Golden Dawn - because some say what Golden Dawn does for this - in the context of its potential is doing everything that can best. On Saturday, then, the philosophical "Uran Arc", which calls themselves "Macedonians", while they are everything except Macedonians, some turtle Skopje, wanted to make an event for which, of course, the Golden Dawn took its measures and canceled it. Those who say Skopje cannot formally ask - the Rainbow - bilingual schools, etc. People are gone. You have given them these rights, they are pressed through your own policies and they will continue to claim even more in the future. So the Golden Dawn was there and canceled the event, as it should have been, not even allowed. I was listening today to someone else from New Democracy, the ultimate child sample of the party tube, which had been given the floor and talked about - what else? - for justice. To speak the New Democracy and this child of the party tube for justice. I do not need to say his name, to make advertising to those involved in politics have seen a child who has grown up next to every President of the New Democracy, who you sent him to Brussels as well. So this little boy grew up in the party tube, grown up and claimed the vote of the Greek people. This child spoke of justice, that there is no justice in Greece. We agree that in some cases justice makes its eyes the best. But we did not see this New Democracy child resisting the president of the New Democracy who was taking the phones, Antonis Samaras, to shut us down in jail. We didn't see him smacking anything then. Then justice, manipulated by Antonis Samaras and sent the Chief of Golden Dawn and the Members of the Golden Dawn to prison, was good. When it suits us and when justice is controlled by us, it is good. Now, there's no justice in our country. Tsipras has been taking over for a few days, Minister for Foreign Affairs, and his first feat was Turkey to restore the casus belli. Let us see what else worse waits for the elections to take place and let this government leave our homeland as soon as possible. It has caused a great deal of damage to all issues, it has divided society, it has humiliated us abroad and to see what else is going to happen with a double-degree Alexis Tsipras. I close, as I started, to the gentlemen and ladies of SYRIZA, that your democracy ends where your ideas and your complex begin. Fortunately for the Greek people, however, all of this will be over soon with a national government of Gold Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, forty-nine students and their students and three teachers from the Moleon Laconia High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Sevastakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a bill of democratic power. It is now time for Greece to be able to design policies that are not defensive, such as in previous years, in response to an international pressure for measures. The Greek people have won with their sacrifices the possibility of designing policies that also have a developmental and culturally aggressive or active character. I mean, disagreeing with the approach of some colleagues earlier, rapporteurs who spoke about sustainability or not. Before all, it's the cultural viability of a project. If necessary, if there is a common one, if it has the basic means and tools, so that it can be addressed to the public, teach and learn, receive the propositions of this audience. Does the treaty allow that? Does the new museum composition attempt to form the bill ensure that? I think we have the potential. It's not founded. In no structure of the legislative composition itself can its functionality be ensured. However, we are told by the legislative composition proposed by the Ministry that this museum organization and language should also set up a teaching action on the subject. It is very important that such a multifaceted composition is made in Thessaloniki. Let us not forget, we do not have a one-thematic museum, we have the core of the modern - let us say it this way - a step, which is the collection of Russian leadership, a lean, dense and internationally fully documented and accepted modernism, parallel to the modernism that we met in the early 20th century in all the major cultural centers of Europe, Paris, Munich, the British capital, Italy, the Netherlands, etc. In all the centers there was a version of modernism. Russian leadership, this large national investment, with Kostakis collection, first of all ensures access to the sources of the modern movement. There is the intake - and this is brought by the Macedonian Museum - of the way it hired, understood, assimilated, by the '70s generation mainly and later by the modernité. In reply to my colleague from the Communist Party, there is also what the productive maturation, the productive powers, in other words photo-reviewing, may have brought about. Therefore, I have the interconnection, the development of a museum risk of very serious and multifaceted and with very great potential. To say, the possibility of Alex Mylona Foundation having a multifunctional function - and in Athens I mean - gives a very large operational and operational capacity to the new museum. But is it what the country needs, a museum composition? Yes, the country must regain its cultural production - I repeat - not in terms of defence like many years. It was a good impression that the Minister pointed out the political genealogy of this museum. He mentioned Mr. Javarra. He mentioned, of course, the previous ones. He mentioned Mr. Geroulano. It shows - or is implying - that there is a political continuity, even with disagreements and conflicts, welcome sometimes, which, if they have a reasonable form of formation, exacerbate too much both meditation and reflection. Things have been said. Does the single budget ensure an economy? Or on the other hand, having a board of directors, having a separate paralyzed demand and overcoming it? I don't understand which of the two is the melting position of the counterpopulation. Where is the premise of understanding different spiritual people, different intellectuals in different directions and languages and drafting a single budget? The budget is also the exponential and aesthetically requested. I think this double joint and autonomy and synthetic function understanding... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Unfortunately, I lost the noble President, Mr Lykoudi, who is more intrinsic to calls for a short time. I'm going to have to do it with you guys that are much more...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u58	I'm making it clear that I'm not going to be endearic myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I will only need a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u60	One minute you've got it. You deserve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much. There are few speakers, so we have the power. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I would therefore like to say that, in the end, this is a happy juncture. Behind the so-called or critical reservations one can see that a very serious step is taking towards the recovery of this cultural prerequisite that is to stand up to societies on the basis of and their cultural designs. I'm closing up with the concession to PAOK, which is a large folk club with huge penetration. I would like the large unions to reassess their cultural action. Through academies, other than athletics, they can enhance the concept of art and the concept of concert and the concept of solidarity within societies in which they form and operate. I think, therefore, that concessions at the same time anticipate what large sports clubs can be and, in particular, PAOK: they should be a nucleus of social cohesion rather than a division. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Paradigmopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr Javarras will then be followed by the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening. The Minister, the rapporteurs and the colleagues who spoke previously have described the course of this legislation and the fact that it has been shaped by political cooperation. Also, its main lines have been developed. I would like to say that I understand that everyone agrees to an upgrade of the operation of the museums of Thessaloniki through coordination and, as is called the technical terminology of the economy of scale, so we have come to the formation of a legal person of private law, which works in the interests of the public interest. It is clear that we are dealing with a hybrid, that we are dealing with a legal personality which is a little acrobatic and complex. It's technical. It's not political at all. And I hope that this synonym does not give rise to any problems of implementation in the future, since there is good cooperation and solidarity. With a view to the composition and formulation of this legal personality, I would like the functioning of the public interest to be better reflected in its institutions. This, however, may concern the future, i.e. at the same time as the good public function of the supervision of this legal person, the private person, the publicity of the publicity, which coexists with the private autonomy and the private persons of the individual museums, as well as the synthetic one. I shall mention, because these have developed, in short, two issues briefly. One is of course the granting of an area for the PAOK stadium on the basis of the Prime Minister's promise. I think that, in particular, collective sports can be a source of culture. Of course, many times we have the bad aspect, we have the reflection in collective sport of flaws and violence that we are still encountering in the social area, but we also see in them the possibility for citizens to combine themselves with combinations and cooperation to achieve important things. I therefore believe that this can also be a source of culture for Thessaloniki and Tuba. Finally, I should like to address another matter briefly because it concerns both culture and Thessaloniki. I refer to the subject of regular checks and incubations and sometimes arrests, of what I have seen, made to musicians on the street in Thessaloniki. Look, I believe that this is a very serious phenomenon. There are legislation that expressly excludes. Let us say the press legislation on the exercise of art and serve the freedom of this exercise. It happened here in a provision that there was no explicit exception to the begging provision. Or even if there wasn't an explicit exception we had to find out. Amazing Yiannis Manoledakis, forty years ago, wrote that crime of punishment should not exist, because it does not insult any good, it is not a dangerous act, it does not insult others. He should not even be punished. Nor did that take us to understand that people should be allowed to play music on the street freely, because playing music on the street is not even begging. It's artistic creation. Music is created, reproduced through its live performance. The electric or electronic way of playing leads to a copy of the music. Only live play and ear listen allows improvisations, adjustments, variations, with integration into one culture or another, into one neighborhood or another. That's how elementary music was made. That's how the melodies were made. And we have arrived today from the end of the twentieth century not to have new melodies, but simply to reproduce what was created when there were street musicians, square musicians, fair musicians. I think that this culture must be respected and maintained as an eye daughter. If it is not possible for people to understand when implementing that music on the streets must be played freely and inconsistently, then let us move on to legislation, in other words regulate what is self-evident. We intend to address the Justice Minister. It is an initiative by a number of SYRIZA Members who have already been consulted. But I will say that I hope that our opinion will be embraced in general, and I also believe that the Minister of Justice has a sensitivity of cultural, artistic and may not even have to address him to see how inappropriate the provision of begging is to receive such activities and how, in any case, the same provision on begging is inappropriate for a position in our criminal law. I am referring to the Minister of Justice and not to the Minister of Culture precisely because this provision is in the Criminal Code and it is his legislative initiative, which can lead to its disappearance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u64	Mr Javarras, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to agree with Mr Sevastakis that culture is a national matter and no one, especially in this matter, which, as a problem now solved by today's bill, would have a radically opposing position only to keep the pretexts of an opposition of barren and sterile. The reference made by the Minister to the efforts that have been made to reach the present stage of the solution, I think it was sufficient and, at least for me, I must admit that through this effort that has been made over my days in the Ministry of Culture, I have had the opportunity to discuss with very remarkable people, representatives of the museums that co-operate, people of culture, truly of culture, with whom I have been trying to reach a positive conclusion for months on the subject of unification of these museums. But I have to raise a few questions, because in principle we have no objections. There are objections and must be said in a parliamentary debate as to whether the solution method chosen was the most appropriate one. Here there is a fundamental disagreement, which I will say and which I will describe in order not to serve - I repeat - an unscrupulous counterpart, but to give the thought that we must have when, at last, we have the great decision to make a real institutional prestige that is genuinely innovative and meets the needs of modern conditions for the exploitation of our museums. Minister, my opinion is that from the range of solutions offered, the most conservative has been chosen. And, indeed, it's conservative. Mrs Changanoglou said this with very distinctive words, which she came here to help us process this bill, representing the State Museum of Contemporary Art, said that this solution is not a solution imposed from above, but it is a solution that emerged through discussions of museum representatives. And it did come to an agreement, in which the opposition interests or those interests which could not be met differently between the separate units were balanced. However, what has not been left, what has not emerged is a new quality that would take culture further away. In other words, at some point, we should not treat museums as service units, just as is the case with the museums of the country, which is nothing other than service decentralized units of the Ministry of Culture. And this is the greatest obstacle, to see once in this place there is an explosion of cultural creativity that starts from this great, huge wealth, this cultural reserve that has left behind by the Greek creative word and the act in the field of art, in the field of science and generally in anything that can form culture. Imagine why he singled out and was able to make up the Acropolis Museum. Because just before that time, the government realised that it had to take a separate institutional form and not be a service unit, because there would have been no better development than this five largest genuine and most worthwhile museums in the world, such as the National Archaeological Museum of the country, which despite the efforts made by the previous ones from me and myself - and which you will probably make - permanently the obstacles arise from the institutional barriers and the service contagions that this museum has wanted with the very great and worthwhile culture that it is exposed to - it cannot really satisfy one of the projects that Mr Sevastakis described earlier. So I think there could be an effort, in the context of a genuinely innovative cultural policy and to see from Thessaloniki to launch this vision, which would design and organise a Museums Agency in Thessaloniki, in which all museums should be in existence. That would, in fact, be groundbreaking. However, this solution, which creates the fewest problems in terms of shared reasoning, has been chosen - let us say so - at group level that each individual is self-sufficiently serving the specific museum he represents and nothing will come about. All that is consolidated here is the conservation departments of the exhibits on the one hand and possibly the accounting of these museums on the other. So I think that, although it is a realistic solution that you have chosen, it is not pioneering. And it is not - I repeat - innovative and for another important reason that has full correspondence with this very great collection of Kostakis, which was and still exists, unfortunately, most of it in the Lazares Monastery. One of the points that made me really stir up in the time I was Minister of Culture is that I was not tolerated, Mr Sevastakis, by the thousands of seventy-five projects to expose only 10%. Because I do not have the power, of course, to have you in the field of art, but I have in my heart that this movement of Russian leadership, the Supre-rectors, the constrainers, this Kantinski, Malevic, Popova, Rosanova, the ones who created in illegal conditions at a time when the sovereign was socialist realism, there was a man, Greek from Zakynthos, who was working as a guide to the Greek Embassy and who literally collected what they despised at the time in the Soviet Union. So this particular collection should serve not in the way it has been exploited to date, but with something that corresponds to its radiation, its importance, its value and its importance, its aesthetics and history. The same may be true of other collections, but I just wanted to mention this to show that there is indeed a long way to go still in the direction of making full use of the museum reserve that exists in Greece. And that is why culture must unite us, and we should also be united by the common sense, not every time, trying to reduce our opponent's contribution in the same direction as we are to resolve the same problem. Finally, Minister, I want to tell you this. I would ask you personally to take a look at the report by the Scientific Committee. There are two notes there. One note, the first one, concerns the replacement of the verb ‘receives’ to ‘receives’. This, indeed, is something not only of cultural value, but of using in a bill by the Ministry of Culture the right word to define the right concept, I think it is a conquest to the right legalization that must always be initiated by the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education. Therefore, in Article 1(1)(2), the legal person ‘receives’ and not ‘receives’. I think that - it must be admirably or inadvertently invaded - for the linguistic excellence of the text and its conceptual clarity. There's another thing that's a big deal. It is a matter of the legislative power which is laid down and provided for in Article 4(2). A regulation on internal operation will be drawn up by the Management Board, after the agreement of the Director-General, but the matters on which this legislative authorisation is provided are in breach of the provisions of Article 43(2) of the Constitution, which provides for the possibility of being regulatory bodies other than the President of the Republic and other bodies of the administration, but this will only be done on matters which are of a local nature or are of a technical nature. So here, as the report of the Scientific Council of Parliament rightly points out, there is a question of this legislative power, because while it is provided for in the provision that the matters to be dealt with in the Rules of Procedure will be organic positions, the distribution of tasks, the disciplinary procedure, disciplinary misconduct and penalties, but they cannot be the subject of legislative, legal, valid, constitutional and proper legislative powers, because this provision does not provide for the main substantive rules. At least this could be covered by the reference to the Civil Service Code. The fact that there is no reference to the main regulation which is either the way in which the specific disciplinary offences are to be provided or, at least in general, the regulation chosen, I fear that it will cause problems to those who, at some point in time, will want to offend this regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, I would like to make a little comment on what Mr Javarras said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u68	Because you have a right to dentistry, do you want to gather a more comprehensive picture to intervene then or do you want now? Do you think it's something...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u69	I would like now, Mr President, if possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u70	One or two minutes enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u71	Yes, Mr. President. I'd like one or two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u72	All right, then, go ahead. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Javarra, thank you very much for your location. Indeed, I will agree with you that we have a long way to go and I am glad you see this road and you have shown it here too. I believe, of course, that this is a separate institutional form and that is obvious as we have not had it so far. As much as we want all the museums to cooperate, we are now giving tests with this bill and I think the time that has passed shows us how hard and how difficult it is. I wish we could come sometime to have museum networks, have much better forms. But I would like to observe something. If the common denominator of the agencies gave us this result, what should we do? Should we despise the Civil Society and use a state autocratic way to impose our own solution? I think that's something that no one would want. So in this case let us agree that it is the best possible thing to do and that it opens us up for better intervention in public cultural organizations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Emmanuelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's speech is on Thessaloniki, which is customary for the last 10 days of October, to have its honour. In this report I will begin with "Thessaloniki, Days of 1969 C.E." by Manolis Anagnostakis. As if it didn't spend a day from '69 to 2015. Thessaloniki has been confined throughout this period to the euphemistic role of the co-chairman, but in essence "advanced". You know that "second" is painful, as there is always the first. It is also reassuring, however, as everyone else follows. With this reality, Thessaloniki became familiar throughout its historic journey and while it was able to play a hegemony role in the Balkans and in the European inlands, it was limited to meditating and contenting on developing east and west, compressing geographical, economic, social and cultural areas on our territory. This inevitably connects it to the issue of the Prespecies Agreement, because this hegemony role in the Balkans ensures the agreement and leaves it a positive impression as a historic deposit. Ladies and gentlemen, we obviously have no suicidal idea in order to inspire the division in the world of Macedonia and Greece. We are a party and you know very well that the parties operate with a multi-collection target. So when we took this decision, we were guided in one single direction: taking the historical responsibility with an absolute sense of debt towards the future generations. I'm closing this parentheses. In an introduction, in relation to the bill under discussion, I would like to point out the incredible slightness of the complaint from the Anti-Population, which is condensed in the word'slow'. You are late, you tell us to submit this draft law. For more than 40 years of post-military failure and in culture, you are equating them to the four years of our governance. There's a zero missing. It is this zero of forty-year-old governance by the parties of the New Democracy and the PASOK who wanted Thessaloniki to be always secondary: The anecdotes - because it is an unpublished - of the metro of Thessaloniki, the great party to break up public money about the unfamiliar memory of Thessaloniki as the Capital of Culture of Europe, the list of lost opportunities to become Thessaloniki a metropolitan city of culture in the Balkans is open. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the bill to be passed. In our respective committee, the draft law has been discussed with a very constructive attitude at four meetings. I believe that a full text is coming in plenary, whose vote will be a stop to the cultural events of northern Greece, with resonance and abstraction not only in Thessaloniki. As far as the provisions of the draft law are concerned, the most important issues raised during the meetings were, I believe, sufficiently answered by the relevant Minister, which made changes and amendments where necessary. The most important issues raised during the meetings of the Committee were the extent, composition and responsibilities of the Management Board, the viability of the new Agency in relation to its resources, the criteria and procedures for selecting management bodies, the allocation algorithm of part of the Agency’s revenue in its individual operational units, the functionality of the administrative structure and decision-making processes, the issue of FAOET and, finally, the criticism of delay. In the last point, the criticism of delay, I have already mentioned. The association that the Ministry of Culture has promoted today fully respects the history of each institution, its character and its peculiarities. Let us not forget that we are talking about priceless collections with the Kostaki Collection, which will be the jewel of the new body, naturally framed by the other important collections of contemporary art, both the Macedonian and the State Museum and the Foundation "Alex Mylona". Ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest to the museums and the cultural sites that Greece is getting oxygen. This reality covers the draft law to be adopted here. Through the collecting of exceptional cultural cells, Thessaloniki is able to acquire a cultural lung, which will eventually be at the disposal of not only Macedonian space but at the disposal of all Greek space and beyond. This is because the Kostakis Collection emblematically is a global testament to the innovatory expression of Russian innovatory visuals of the former Soviet Union, today Russia. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out that half of the bills and half-important points submitted by colleagues in the counter-population are not, in the end, able to withstand the seriousness of this legislative project, but also of the moments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u76	Mr Triantafylides has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, two more votes - and we are very pleased, I will not say happy, for our city of Thessaloniki, for the capital of Macedonia - take their place in the mosaic of the new Thessaloniki. It's all civilization, according to the film "Everything is a Way", for a city worth living. And because we are not often given the opportunity from the Step of the House, and not from a remote window, to talk about the city we love, to say that this new Thessaloniki with specific interventions is now blocking the road, earning time, is in front and a common denominator is always culture. It is culture, because the stopped until 2015 Thessaloniki metro has been running versatilely, both in the central line and in its extensions to Kalamaria and western Thessaloniki, with a visible time of integration and performance to the Thessalonikians in 2019. We don't do them a favor, we owe it to the city, for a European city of one and a half million that has no metro. The refinery section "New Page" in OSTH after sixty years brings housewives and good administration, less suffering for citizens at the stops, but this has to be eliminated by multiplying the routes and hiring drivers. The first new local units of health, culture, already operate in western Thessaloniki and the large hospitals are supported by young doctors and nurses, as well as the Atomic Disease Hospital opened. They were closed, we're opening hospitals, schools, institutions, agencies. The former camps of Pavlos Mela and Kodra were attributed to society, in order to be a place of recreation, culture and entertainment. For the daily life of the citizens in western Thessaloniki and Kalamaria, where the Museum of Pontian Hellenism and the Museum of National Resistance will become, in order to compact and give the historical steps, to be reflected in these sites. It is established with the participation of all the institutions, the Agency for the Protection of the Thermal Gulf, speed up works at the airport of "MAKEDONIA", not for a provincial coastal airport, but already with the foundation of recently and the facilities and services of ground, with the airports that can welcome very large planes, it is possible to strengthen tourism and at the same time culture. We relaunched the Thessaloniki Port Authority, a leading deficit for decades. We heard it, we heard it, we heard it! The Paediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki and thank you very much for the Foundation "Stavros Niarchos", because with the public-private partnership a longer-term request is being made. And I come to the Holocaust Museum for our Jewish community. The historical memory of the Jewish community of Thessaloniki and the multicultural character of the city is founded. It has emerged to be a sign, a landmark world, of the unfaithful Jewry that can see in Thessaloniki the sign of recompense, to remember and say "never to fascism, Nazism, extreme right, intolerance, racism". The renovation of HELEXPO - PTH, the exhibition and what may combine the functionality of the city, the metro with the two stations of Agia Sophia and Venizelos, which will be at the front of Thessaloniki, the Roman Market, the visiting Roman Market, where Venizelos and Egnatia meets, tourist archaeological sites that will highlight the timeless Thessaloniki of the ancient Roman and modern times. And there he is near the Roman Market, where French Miller, in 1863, dismantled our muses and took them to the museum of Louvre and threw them into the basement and became a few months ago, these "Incantadas", as we say, dear Minister. All this is about this culture that our city has shown, as has rightly been said, is in its historic course. I now come to the second large-scale - important - for the PAOK court. "Anecdotes, mockery because of the ITH," we were told. "Profession due to the ICU", they were used to thirty, forty years. Before they came, they were beading the natives. So we were treated by Thessalonians. 'Water', 'head of the Balkans', in Southeast Europe'! Pumara, Pumara! Act, nothing! They went and went and visited the cultural centers. Do you remember the late former minister? They were coming with their public service convoys, "necessarily" the public, they visited the "cultural centers" - within introductorys - Thessaloniki and then you did not see Panais! Again - mama next September! And it was Tsipras, it was the government that built the Prime Minister's office, which every 15 days - as promised, I didn't believe - was there. He was planning, organizing, coordinating not only these projects, but also meals for children in western Thessaloniki, for all the areas that had a problem in relation to their mornings and agglomerations. The professional black lovers everywhere, in everything, for all blacks, said what they said, about "anecdotes", about "koroidia" etc. We must say this clearly: we are not doing thanks to Thessaloniki. We owe it to the city. We just need to have a comparison measure. The others were on the line, we are the ones who are on it. The others were tampering with the world, the world and PAOK and Thessaloniki, we are talking with our actions. It is also public-private cooperation, which is not anonymous, and it is called a name. The presence of Ivan Savvidis in the PAOK presidency has removed the group from the misery and grievance of the previous decades and has created preconditions for what my good colleague, Mr Sevastakis, has said, for the multitude of intervention and the prospect that the presence of a sports club must have, with his initiatives and his solidarity and his humanity, enter into the health areas, in the area of the abstract, unemployed and homeless. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There are things that are not said, because that is the case. And PAOK along with his players, along with his administration, with all people, is always where they need them, in hospitals, heart surgery centers, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Triantafylides, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u79	I shall conclude, Mr President. Modern, secure European stage, entertainment and cultural activities, public interest service, Toumba and the wider region are changing page, going to another era. Just say in the original sentence, the amateur PAOK asked for twenty acres. He's twenty-nine. There too, let us say that the Toumba issue will even proceed with legislation. We said it on September 6 on sports radios - and I put it on the Minutes - but neither did they believe us then. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now in our city, in our favourite city, in Thessaloniki, now that it is voted on, it is built with a broad consensus, but by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, to have a comparison measure. Now it is clear that we are no longer talking with words, but with actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u80	Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Theocharopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u81	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin first of all with what the two ministers have said. Mr Famelos presented the extension of the deadlines for objecting against impounded forest maps. The criticism we make in this regard is that we continue to operate on extensions, because you have not accepted an overall framework that we have proposed to you. These are extensions to prolongation! We have said that this process is not solved. They had to have time in clear procedures from the outset, because they're both time-consuming and cost-effective. The Minister told us about regularity, which comes with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, a normality which we have shown many times that there is not, because for the next four years, by 2022, you have signed unbearable commitments for the Greek people, which are essentially a new painful situation. What do I mean? Primary surpluses of 3.5% until 2022. Will you negotiate effectively, ladies and gentlemen, for their reduction, which we recommend to you at 2%? The country does not come out with these primary surpluses of 3.5% for the next four years, until 2022. This will always mean cuts in public spending, it will mean non-payments of public debt, and even when we do not have a sustainable development plan. It will mean overtaxation and an unfair insurance policy, which is, in fact, a tax. This is the normality described by Mr Famelos, the Minister, for the next few years. There is, therefore, no such normality. And indeed, addressing my colleague Mr Psarian said that'some people have put the country in the memorials and we have taken it off'. I don't know if he meant Mr. Psariano that he put the country in the memorials, but he should rather address the Council of Ministers, who should have said that better, Mr. Kammenos, who was the Minister of Governance 2004-2009, Mr. Papagelopoulos who was president at the time of the EIOP at the time of the EIOP, and now he is a Minister, as well as many other executives. Because in 2009 we had twin deficits in the country that brought the memoirs. The Minister of Government SYRIZA - ANEL forgot all this and mentioned all of these features to whom they put the country in the memorials and who took the country out of the memorials. The same splitting speech, far from the needs of understanding that they need today in the country. Dear, Minister, I heard your speech, which had another spirit. You have tried with greater understanding to address the Greek Parliament and the Greek people in relation to what I said earlier, but I would like to refer to what you said at the outset, because I was really surprised. You said that you spoke 'as a citizen'. First of all, here you are not a citizen, you are a Minister, you are judged as Minister. And you will allow me to tell you that this is how you have to handle the public speech here, because you said that you speak 'as a citizen' - this is the first criticism - you feel, you say, 'absence for the classifications here today'. Today we have a fruitful debate. If you feel reluctant about the well-meaning criticism of anti-population, which is even voting - at least the Democratic Compact - for this bill, I think you are wrong. On the contrary, you should feel reluctant and have said so to the recent Ministerial Council when you, as Minister of State, were opposed to the unacceptable conflict between Minister Kotzia and Minister of State of Kammenos, where the Minister of National Defence accused the country's Minister of Foreign Affairs, in essence, of opacity in secret funds, of the financing of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and so on. The citizens feel reluctant about this, about all that has happened in the last few days. Did you state your sympathy for the debate which has taken place or which you have left - the members of the Ministerial Council - to be abducted to this debate? Because this is about the country I am talking about at the moment. And, of course, the Prime Minister found the solution. He effectively renounced, the Foreign Minister who supported the Prespecies Agreement, with whom the Prime Minister agreed and held the Minister of National Defence, the Minister of National Defence, who is against the Prespecies Agreement, supported by the Prime Minister. If you think this is not the end of political irrationality in this government, then what is political irrationality? Ladies and gentlemen, by coming to today's bill and not to the amendments to some of which I mentioned, I would like to add the following: "Culture...", Melina Mercouri said, "...is Greece's heavy industry". And since then, too many people have used this, and that is right, too many have used it. But that can only happen if we do not have an organised state that knows how to plan and execute. Unfortunately, the potential of our heavy cultural industry remains in an embryonic state, while the country is looking for growth. All of us are from time to time hampering opportunities, but there has never been a comprehensive and coherent development of these possibilities at national, regional and local level. You are now coming to the end of your term of office, and you are bringing an important bill on cultural events. And, of course, we will criticise why there are delays in the four years of SYRIZA - ANEL governance. The fact that there were delays and sometimes earlier, does not mean that any pathogens you will broaden, you will not "apologise" as a government for these pathogens. And we say it and you said that this had started in some previous periods. You referred to Mr Geralano, who had started it. Previously, he had been frozen by Mr. Panayotopoulos and then came back from Mr. Geroulanos and brought it back by Mr. Xydakis in another form at the beginning. So we, when we see this follow-up, are talking about this follow-up. We don't deceive this all the time. And of all people, this was also mentioned by Mrs Kefalidou, who spoke at the outset on behalf of the Democratic Association. The establishment of the Metropolitan Organisation of Art Arts of Thessaloniki actually comes as a response to the chronic demand of the museum institutions of the city as a result of the synergy of the stakeholders. A platform is created which combines the functions of the State Museum of Contemporary Art and its parts with those of the Macedonian Museum of Contemporary Art and the Museum of Contemporary Art "Alex Mylon". The institutions will, indeed, be able to maintain their physics and cooperate with each other. I will not say any more positive on this point, because I do not have time. The value of this project is important as it is also being implemented in Thessaloniki, because we must finally find ourselves faced with the inconsistencies and inequality in the region, and that is not what the government is doing. The concepts of "decentralisation" and "regional development" have forgotten them, as has been forgotten in both Thessaloniki and northern Greece. Today we have heard speeches from co-presidents and from ministers indeed of another reality. Unless you think that because you built the Prime Minister's office in Thessaloniki, something changed in Thessaloniki. You are dealing with citizens, contrary to what the previous speaker said on behalf of SYRIZA, with a logic which is really unacceptable. The development and problems of northern Greece are not solved with patches and beads and mirrors for indigenous people. For that is why it is exactly the opposite of what the speaker said before: to have them a Prime Minister's office, to give them something to the PAOK group and to be happy. Yes, of course, to become a field of modern facilities, but how do you view growth? Did we hear your vision of fair growth in this way and equal opportunities? This is how you underestimate and insult the North-Easters themselves who really feel that in our country they are disfellowshipped on many issues. That is, of course, a time-consuming problem, it is not a problem today, but not a problem for us to say that we are solving these problems in such a way. So individual moves, like this bill, cannot under any circumstances cover the sloppyness with which your Government faces one of the most serious comparative advantages in our country, our cultural capital. One of the top examples of your curiosity is this whole confusion about the transfer of funds, monuments and buildings of public heritage to the pile of over ten thousand real estate transferred, an issue that the parliamentary group of the Democratic Incorporation has also raised through parliamentary control. I have heard you at the beginning, Minister, say that all this could be done better so that there is no suspicion at all. On the contrary, in the committees today, you spoke about the fuss made by the opposition. So why did all archaeologists rise in the country? Nobody understands anything? Are they denounced the risk of divesting spaces, buildings and monuments? Because of the clandestineness - and I am precise - you are legislating, since your priorities are different. And after we asked you for this list - not from you, I mean from your government, from the Ministry of Finance - what is this list, one to one, why didn't you answer? Let's say that's the list. Or do you not know as government what the list is? And without coming into detail, we have told you that while the archaeological sites exist in the exception, the museums and the spaces do not even exist in the exception. And, of course, the next paragraph of this law, paragraph 4, essentially retains the right to be managed and to the exceptions. That is why the ministries' services are now running to review, code-to-code, lists. That's why the world got up, because when something happens, it's because of something. As the Minister, Mrs Gerovali, has said - not on this issue, on another point - it is, when something happens, something is to blame. In the short time that I have left, I would like to make a few very small points about the bill. We don't understand what your vision is for this new body. Bring political responsibility for the establishment and functioning of the organisation. What is your vision and the strategy that the government draws up for this body? That's a question. The maintenance of the balance is not to displease anyone, because I have heard what you have said to the committees. You said to keep the balance, to be able to find the common place with all the actors. Even where you disagree on the members of the board of directors, on what you consider to be a lesser one, and despite the fact that you think it should be smaller, you keep it large to keep the balance. You are not presiding in this process, you are a government minister, and you have not convinced us at all that you do not go any further with the logic of balances, with the logic of serving certain groups only in this legislative process. I understand the effort to set up a multilingual board and to ensure, on the one hand, that its administration is controlled by the public, on the other hand, that civil society and the municipality are involved in its administration. But how general and vague is that? What criteria and procedures will distinguish between distinguished personalities, for example, the arts, letters and sciences to which you refer? Is there a process to convince us about the atrocity? Tell her. And if this provision is combined with other provisions of the bill on awards, contracts of employment...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u82	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u83	Don't get upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u84	I'm not upset. It's common sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u85	In the criticism you can answer, give answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u86	Please don't interrupt. Continue, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, I should like to conclude by pointing out a particularly important point about the viability of the project, because it concerns the development of cultural policy and the preparation of the operational project, which is the alpha and the omega in the functioning of a cultural organisation. That is where the body's mission, purpose, and the specific objectives are reflected. There's a confusion. You include in the responsibilities of the Board of Directors of the Agency the development of the general cultural policy and strategy of the Agency, while the performance of the artistic work in the Agency is rightly prohibited. I ask you: have you anticipated some security patterns so that we can find a balance and have both of them respected? You will then provide for the responsibilities of the Director-General, also, the deposit of business plan, assisted by the Arts Committee. But it is also forbidden to carry out an artistic work in the organization. Is it possible for a business plan to have no reference to artistic work? And ultimately who will have the overall responsibility of the artistic work? I hope, in fact, - in closing, Minister - that the museum will progress decisively and the dynamics that will arise from the association will finally be the starting point for tackling culture with the seriousness of it, for a well-meaning cultural policy, for us to be really interested in the book, for us to see the development of music and cinema, for us to come to the theatre, erasing the black spots. Unfortunately, from what I have heard today, from both Members of the government majority and from the reactions of the government majority at the moment, I see that there is no real dissatisfaction and response to these questions and problems. You think you know everything and, unfortunately, broaden the paths of the past, with which we must finish. So we must at last ask ourselves what can be done to ensure that culture is indeed the heavy industry of Greece, because we have all the potential and unfortunately do not use them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Amanatidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. I think the bill is wrong. It is wrong, because many people, in order to make opposition, felt that this bill does not address the cultural capital of the country. And, of course, he did not aspire this bill to face the country's cultural capital as a whole. He was ambitious, however, - and he aspires and does - to broaden the levels of cultural expansion in the city of Thessaloniki and not just so that Thessaloniki is not always in the forefront of art and letters - which Thessaloniki has a rich cultural tradition - but a step forward. Why now? Are they electoral? Needs don't wait. And here was a vision of many years, a request and agreement of the respective bodies, especially for the bill. It seems to me that at the moment from the Chamber there are at least no Members of the Representation, of the New Democracy, of Thessaloniki, and I am concerned about why. Is this draft law so trivial that it talks about museums, or are they opposed to Mrs Kefaliannis's view, which says in principle that she is taking positive steps, but I do not know what she will do in the individual articles? Like Mr Javarra's position, I have taken her as a self-criticist, essentially, of the attitude of the New Democracy, which could not be miserable and miserable to agree on something positive and not to pursue the destructive policy that she had set out centrally. Do they not feel and are not covered by this position - this is the second question in relation to the Vice-Population MPs - even for the PAOK court? Of course, the PAOK field does not solve the issues of sport and the whole of Thessaloniki. For this part, however, both fans and the region - a particular group dealing with it - is making the beginning. And the beginning is half of everything. Can they not say a single word about what this government has done? So much is positive steps bothering them? Are they beads for indigenous people that the subway will be completed and in two years the Thessalonians will have subway? Are there beads for natives the performance of free spaces? I don't want to list them. My colleagues have already said so. Are they beads for indigenous people - but am I going to add - that Thessaloniki is becoming an energy portal with the agreements signed by the Greek Government and transport centre for the wider region? They're not beads for indigenous people, and these are the Thessalonians who evaluate them. Through the absence of any arguments as deceptive as the Opposition would like to give up, this cannot succeed, because the results are concrete. I want to add the following. Thessaloniki, Mr President, is at the heart of government policy and was even within the suffocating framework of the 2015 agreement. Haven't we taken steps towards normality when we stopped in education the reserve, when we supplied the schools and normally operated without shortages for so many years? Isn't that a step in normality and in suffocating frames? Is it not a step in health, when carpets have been abolished and public health has been strengthened with funds and hospitals with staff? Is it not a step in normality, when in public administration stopped that framework, which basically did not carry out an assessment, but was it caring for the civil servants and leading them to dismissal? Is it not a step forward that around 80% of the positions at the children's stations have increased, and from seventy thousand have there been a hundred and twenty thousand positions for children? Isn't it a step on the meals that are given to schools anymore? Aren't those steps in normality? They are steps, in my view, normality, as well as the country - I hope you will recognise that - came out of the committee in August 2018. The implementation of the Prime Minister's announcements at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition speeds up the steps for what we call a fair and sustainable development, with a plan. Do you forget the regional conferences that have taken place throughout Greece for over a year and a half, aimed at highlighting the comparative advantages of the regions and regions, so that Greece can walk with a plan? Why do you forget about this? So, then, our word is not battling. Our word is unified, on the solution of the problems, in a progressive direction, against the pathogens that brought bankruptcy and these people insist on wanting to turn Greece back. Greece will not return, it will move forward and with the coexistence of the entire Greek people. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Xydakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after ten years of announcements and efforts and retreats we are able, as a legislator, in 2018 to provide a solution to a problem in Thessaloniki, which does not concern the last citizen, of course, but concerns the history of the city, the history of Greece and the visual and museum history of the country. It's a step. I would make a small decline to recall that the Macedonian Museum of Contemporary Art was founded in 1978-79 on an initiative by citizens of Thessaloniki, scholars, artists, who deserve special mention, and the State Museum of Contemporary Art was founded in 1997, almost twenty years later. As an addition, as a contribution to the debate - which is being conducted in a fairly civilised and creative climate today - I would like us to think that it could already be twenty years ago, in 1997-1998, when a new museum was founded on the existing museum, there has been a prediction and open its wings with state support, with a change in the legal status of the person. Unfortunately, there have been two. And thankfully now they become one, a great organization that enjoys the affection of the state and enjoys the special privileges of grants and the affection of citizens. What I would like to add is two things, firstly, for the artistic value of this merger. A large, valued collection of Greek and international contemporary art of the Macedonian Museum will coexist with a collection of worldwide scope for the art history of the 20th century, the Kostakis Collection, and a great experience in social and educational programs of the Macedonian Museum joins the great experience that the State Museum has developed in recent years with Biennale, with the events of contemporary art, with the program of publications and events. We should come to faces now. Congratulations and credit are also worthy of the persons who constituted the historical administration, the founders of the Macedonian Museum of Contemporary Art, and of the persons who have been the last difficult years of the merging course of the State Museum of Contemporary Art. And because the faces have names and there are faces and because only the faces are able to inspire and inspire the institutions of democracy, I want to call them: First, Andreas Takis, the President of the last board of directors since 2015. And I mention him not only because then I chose him, proposed him, and pushed him to take the burden of this job. It proved not only to be a militant and effective legal, but also an effective and active stateman, a man who worked on behalf of democracy and carried out a mission. Also Maria Changanoglou, the soul of the Kostaki Collection, the historic director in the last years of the museum. I also thank Sara Tsiras the director of the Centre of Contemporary Art in the wings of the State Museum and the historical team - as I experienced it - of the Macedonian Museum. I lived both museums as curator at the State Museum or as speaker, partner at seminars, partner at events throughout the 1990s at the Macedonian Museum. I still thank President Xanthippe Hoopel. It was her dream and it became reality. And to thank all and everyone I met during the 20, twenty-five years of suffering to keep it up. Also, Maro Laya, who has since begun the donation of the Iola Collection, Katerina Kamara, Alexandra Boutaris, Yiannis Boutaris, who was also a cashier of the board of directors and many times the invisible sponsor of the most recent moment, and those who were behind them in the 1970s, the great spiritual figures of Thessaloniki, the late Manolis Andronikos, Paulos Zanna, as well as Mimi Fatouros, Sofia Kazazis, Ioanna Manoledakis and many others who do not blame them. Mr Zouraris also mentioned the Magda Kotzia, which we do not have. We are honored for the moment, the people who have dreamed of a museum of arts, modern life, contemporary creation for the city of Thessaloniki, and who have carried it on their backs, longed for, spent the night, begged for offices of ministers for some of the finest work, begged people to give free work, artists, critics of art, theoretical art to offer works, to offer work. They are the ones we are now honoring and on their faces we honor Greek democracy. That's our culture, so we're going forward. Highlight. One of the most beautiful points of the legislation - such as all, it will improve in its course and in its implementation - is that it provides for the Director-General and the artistic directors to be appointed after notice and competition. I applaud it and remind you that since 2015, it has been our commitment to move on to all the artistic organisations with similar procedures. I hope that this piece of legislation with this act - it is not innovation - with this good practice it introduces, will be extended to everything soon. It is unacceptable that the appointment of the artistic director of the National Gallery, the National Theatre, the Lyrical Tent, should be a matter for the creative arbitrary of the respective hegemonist of the Ministry of Culture. No, the Minister of Culture doesn't know all about it. It appoints the administrative councils that are responsible for the proper administration and proper management, the development of at least a general strategy, but the address of the National Theatre, the National Gallery, the Acropolis Museum which, ten years after its establishment, has not yet been provided by the state to give him what he deserves, what I had told him in the National Museum of Contemporary Art that he deserves a director with an international competition, it is time to do so. This is how democracies do not simply appoint, elect and leave every artistic community of actors, the theatre, the singers in the major state institutions, to assume the responsibility of giving directors and policy to come into contact with society. Democracies want courage and courage is to remove the executive power part of its arbitrary nature and to allow them to develop democratically. This is my wish and that is what I read in this law, which took many years to do, took a lot of trouble, but we have reached a result and set an example of what needs to be done to the other agencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u92	Mrs Bakis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to talk about current events, but I will not resist the temptation to respond to the previous parliamentary representative of the Democratic Integration. Ladies and gentlemen, in the accusation that reality is not in line with the concept, Hegel used to respond tripartitely: 'So much worse for reality'. But the facts are stubborn and the reality is disgusting to you every day, as the European Commission has disproved you, which - what are we to do? - approved the budget for the non-remuneration of pensions. And I wonder, how is it possible to bankrupt - in fact - parties which have denounced the political system, which have bankrupt the country, who have put the country in a violent and overnight across this great tragedy and the adventure of the memorials, to incur a government that has managed to get the country out of this adventure and put it in a normality? I would also like to ask myself: are there any positive bills coming up until Christmas in the House? What are you gonna do? Will you vote in favour of abolishing the reduction of the personal difference in pensions? Will you vote in favour of the reduction of insurance contributions and of HISBIA? Will you vote in favour of measures relating to social protection? Will you vote in favour of a social dividend from the surplus? Will you vote in favour of the worker's strengthening in the new memorial period by increasing the minimum wage and returning the new collective labour agreements? Here we go, we're just going to look at all this. I'm entering the bill. It's a very big step. It is the institutional culmination and it is also the legal guarantee of the promotion and promotion of Thessaloniki in a culture node. After all, Thessaloniki is a crossroads of cultures, it is a synonym of multiculturality, it is the womb of internationalism. It is the city that gave birth to the first labor union movement of Federation, it is the city that has received a strong Jewish community that was perished in the camps of death. After the foundations of the Jewish Holocaust Museum now, unfortunately, that its negligents, along with the negligents of democracy and fascism, do not hesitate in the name of the patriotic trade, the patriocardial cave, I would say, to desecrate monuments of the Holocaust, comes this bill, at the end of a long course that lasted for about twenty years - two decades - and the association under the cover of a single metropolitan organization - public character - of the administrative and artistic functions of musical musicians of Thessaloniki. They combine - and the rapporteurs of the bill in detail - the State Museum of Contemporary Art and its parts. The Museum of Photography and the Centre of Contemporary Art with the Macedonian Museum of Contemporary Art, including the Museum of Contemporary Art Alex Mylonas based in Athens. The associations, known to them, possess significant works of art - major collections - and play a leading role in the visual events of Thessaloniki, while, at the same time, they have shown a rich educational and research activity. For example, it is worth mentioning the Kostaki Collection, which travelled us to the Russian leadership movement that recommends the aesthetic denaturation and renovation of the historical contexts of the vision of a better world. The new organization - which has been called The new organization - has also been said - will have the name Metropolitan Organisation of Museums of Visual Arts of Thessaloniki and the distinguishing MOMUS title and will be a Legal Person of Private Law, which will be supervised by the Ministry of Culture and Sport. Let's get a few things straight. Such supervision will not be type, as the State grant will remain at the present level alongside the planned financial resources of the new organisation. With the form of the merger - because there have been many - which has been chosen, legal obstacles are overcome which would result in a possible merger of entities, because in this case there would be issues of constitutionally regulated protection of the objectives of the public institutions and also issues of expropriation of public assets. The combination also achieves the creation of a platform of museums under joint management. At the same time, they will operate their functional and artistic autonomy. This does not, of course, mean - as the Minister has already made clear - that we are dealing with a string of the state with the Macedonian Museum. On the contrary, there will be artistic autonomy but not segregation. The two combined museums will cooperate closely, under a common framework, in the light of the development opportunities opened. In addition, this combination will result in the creation of a large cultural entity in an international context. It is characteristic that the bill creates the greatest supervised by the Ministry of Culture a museum body in Greece, with collections of thousands of works of Greek and international art, of high value, of historical value of all the arts: painting, design, photograph, video, facilities. This kind of association moves towards the logic of the single institutional platform of museums, which is also intended to be of benefit to the economic soundness of the whole, to the promotion of independent artistic species, without being given an arbitrary priority in favour of some rather than others. The management bodies of the organization will be the board of directors and the Director-General, which will be the result of an international competition and will not have artistic competences, while the Directorates of Modern Art, Contemporary Art and Photography that will be created, will maintain the title of the museum. For the first time - a great deal has been said, and I also stress it on my part, because I consider it very important - that this draft law is established as a regular procedure for the selection of directors and artistic directors not by appointment by the Minister but by an international competition. Not by appointment, by contest. I'll say a few words about the budget. It will be uniform with a fair allocation of revenue, which will work particularly positively for the co-ordinated entities, which will also move towards an economy of scale by reducing expenditure on legal, accounting and other issues. When drawing up the budget in the specific codes of the individual addresses, the amounts remaining, in accordance with what has also been said, will amount to the fair allocation algorithm after deduction of revenue and expenditure. And because a lot has been heard in the committees, let us say once again that this famous algorithm is only activated when the costs are higher than the fixed and other important costs, without in any event jeopardising their coverage. The budget for the programming period to be submitted each year and the way in which it is implemented and weighted according to the results of the previous two years will be taken into account. In this way, the individual address will have an incentive to plan carefully, realistically, its programming, while knowing that the completeness of the execution and initiatives with a positive result will be rewarded. A very important element, too, is the provision for the transfer of the personnel of the contracting entities to the new organisation with the same employment relationship, thereby ensuring the existing jobs and ensuring the smooth transition and functioning of the new scheme. I conclude by telling you that because the front of these days is the term 'normality','return to normality', the return to normality is not only about economic sizes. It is not just economic regularity, it is democratic regularity. In the flood of barbarity of the stone years of the memorial ark was civilization. Now we will not plan the future of this country with a range of economic, budgetary, surpluses, surpluses, but above all with surpluses of values, with a cultural reserve, because the future of this country will also be judged by the ideas and culture and democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Mitafidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a correction of a historical nature, in an inaccuracy said by Mr Javarras, on the other hand, recognizing him to the Russian leadership. The Russian leadership was not the product of "lawlessness" but was the birth of the October outbreak and not, of course, the period of Stalinist dogmatism and terrorism. The witness is Magicovski, who tells the manifesto about the democratization of the arts: "I accept him or do I not accept him in October? This was not a matter for me and the other Moscow futurists. It's my revolution. From today, along with the catalyst of the charitable regime, the existence of art, the warehouses and the docks of the human spirit is abolished. The paintings can be spread from house to house, over the streets and squares as heavenly bows to precious stones, to cheer and reproach the reader’s gaze. All art to the people." That was the message of the Russian leadership. Obviously none of us are happy that only 1/10 of the Kostakis Collection is available to the public and the people and the rest is in the warehouses. The opposition, ladies and gentlemen, has kissed the bill with the world's characterizations. The most lenient was that it is a "conservative bill", because it serves the equilibrium between museums that co-operate, but maintains their special character. The balances, I mean, are part of life, so long as they are based on principles and are not the product of unfair transactions or customer relations that we have experienced in the recent past and not just. We have heard much worse, of course, about the'management of misery'. The bill 'using, under the circumstances', 'anhydrous', 'weaned' and - much worse - 'electional trick' was described. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, I believe that because we have objectively entered a prolonged pre-election period, the shadow of everything we do will constantly fall on your part. Life, as you know, goes beyond election plans. Life is hard and daily and requires those who are in power and who have promised - and I remind you - that the 'parallel programme' which we had announced together, with the resolution, unfortunately, of the third memorandum, to move at least to relief measures, often overthrowing what we have voted on. It's a battle dynamic. I am listening to a return to 'normality'. What is this 'normality' we are returning to? The one who led the country to the edge of the cliff? What kind of regularity are we talking about? Is it possible to have regularity within such a troubled world, when there are issues of existential agony, within this structure of the European Union, which we have fascists, the least xenophobic enemies of refugees, within governments of Europe's metropolitan countries? In this environment, then, the troubled one is obliged to fight. Part of this battle is today's bill. Thessaloniki will be the focus in the next few days, not only for anniversary reasons. And the city will have another weapon in this battle: the fact that it is a Metropolitan Museum Organisation that will not be a sum but a living organization that will interact. So we will also be able to resolve this problem with the Museum of Photography and for which we expect, I believe, to hear answers from the Ministry as well. There will be the necessary staff savings and, on the other hand, people who will be able to take up their address in the transitional period until we have the proclamation of personnel by means of an ADP, if you wish, and the contractorship that existed before, to proceed to individual employment contracts with the workers in this area. The other thing I want to say, ladies and gentlemen, is that Thessaloniki, in the next few days, will celebrate its two releases: one from the Ottoman yoke and the other from the Nazi yoke. Not by chance. This second liberation was established by the current government of SYRIZA in 2016 and the city discovers its heroic as well as martyrdom. Let us not forget that this city has been not only the second martyr city since Warsaw, but also the city where the first anti-indigenous organization was founded in Europe, just one and a half months after it was occupied by the Nazi troops. This is a historic acquis that is necessary, in the days that we are living at the moment, because its history and knowledge are a strong emblem to the nostalgic and imitators of Nazism, which unfortunately also have them with the vote of the Greek people in this Chamber and who, on a daily basis, do not cease to know from this Step - is the most lenient characterisation I can use - and are still threatening military coups. This is the 'normality' for them. For the PAOK stadium, I personally have memories from its construction. It started in 1958 and was completed in 1959 in the old Moroccan vehicle bay, near our neighborhood. And I want to tell you that the neighbourhoods of Toumba had contributed with their voluntary work on building the field beyond the machinery, of course, used by MOMA at the time. Now this historical team is allowed to have a field similar to its needs. I would like to say to the Minister, because I have also seen the issues relating to the construction of the stadium, because it is in a preached archaeological site, that the same procedures exist on behalf of the Central Archaeological Council, so that this area with the special uses provided for in the Ministry of Culture decision can proceed within the time limits laid down for its completion. Let me close, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject to which I referred and to the meetings of the committee which took place earlier, by 'YFANET'. The "FANET", like the "ALLATINI", the first factory built in Thessaloniki, was the beginning of urban modernisation. Now, unfortunately, we have industrial desertification in Thessaloniki. YFANET was a flagrant factory and is of course linked to the social history and social struggles of the city. It was one of the factories from which the great labor uprising began in May 1936. I think we should look at it very seriously next time. As is the case with the Holocaust Museum and the Educational Center that will soon be acquired by the city. Finally, the city has a Museum of Industrial Heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr Mitafidis, for which the list of speakers has been completed. We're going to move on to the seconds of the rapporteurs and special speakers. Do you all agree to take the floor for three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u97	No, Mr. President. There are amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u98	Anyway, we'll put three minutes and there'll be tolerance. Mrs Georgopoulos - Saltari, you have the floor. Mrs. Kefaliannis will be followed and we'll continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. We are at the final straight of the completion of the process of discussion and voting on the draft law and amendments. We must admit that there has been a mild and rich debate and I believe that the Minister has given detailed and substantiated answers to all the issues raised. We must take the positive attitude to the principle of a large part of Parliament. You will, however, allow me to refer to some of the positions that have been heard and comment on the fact that every good-faithed listener justly concludes that there has been a whim of grumbling on some aspects. Yes, we welcome the necessity and recognize the importance of the combination of museums, but something is bothering us. What exactly? Rather, because it is being implemented with this government today an issue of vital importance for the present and future of the museums in Thessaloniki, which has been dragging away for many years and poses problems for them. We have heard criticism of a customer system by parties that ruled the country since 1997, which was founded by law by the State Museum of Contemporary Art, until 2014. We've been talking for seventeen years. So, let us remind you what their governments had legislated for the State Museum and I invite you colleagues to compare with what the SYRIZA Government is proposing today to see if the accusations of the Ministry are correct that we are building a customer system. However, you should know in advance that, at the same time, these charges are, in fact, addressed and the bodies which have agreed to the contents of the present provisions. In Law 2557/1997 the establishment of the State Museum in PASOK, which, of course, we recognise its great importance, states that the Minister of Culture is appointed by his decision as the director of the museum. Eleven years after Law 3658/2008 on New Democracy recasts the same provision. The Director shall continue to be appointed by the Minister. This was the case in PASOK and New Democracy governments. Let's go to today's draft law on SYRIZA - ANEL. The Director-General shall be selected following an international call for expressions of interest by the Management Board of the Agency. Following an international call for expressions of interest, even the Heads of Directorates will be selected, and, for example, the Director of the Photography Department of the State Museum at Law 2557 was also appointed by the Minister. So we have the surrealistic phenomenon of the New Democracy and the PASOK, which were appointed directly by the Minister, today to claim that we who anticipate an international call for expressions of interest are doing customer relations in order to serve day-to-day and also that we are legislating an administrative scheme that conceals hidden manipulation. The conclusions are yours. Another issue with regard to terminology is that we also had a four-year term of office, which could have been renewed without a limit of terms. In this bill we have a four-year term, which can be renewed after any legislative improvements made by the Minister only once. The same shall apply to the members of the Management Board and the Directors. We also heard criticism of the issue of qualifications, that it is very blurred and overall the qualification profile for members of the board of directors, directors-general and managers. However, we did not hear specific proposals on qualifications, because rather because the 1997 Act, which is not amended by Law 2008, provided the same qualifications as this draft law for the members of the board of directors. They said, in other words, that it is made up of personalities of the arts, letters and sciences of recognized prestige. Also, the qualifications of the Director of the State Museum and the Director of Photography in the above laws were of similar generality and philosophy to this draft law. We have heard criticism that the candidate for the post of Director-General or director may also be a public official, since, of course, he is qualified as such. Is that the estimate for civil servants? Everyone in this Chamber knows that there is a large number of civil servants who are qualified not only but even more. These people of course need them with the experience they have in public administration. We have also heard criticism of the prediction of recruiting new staff, which must of course be transparent in the current institutional framework and nothing more. This was translated as appointments of a different kind. So if in future a new collection is donated and a new operational unit needs to be set up in MOMUS, or if he wants to expand his activities, will he not need a new staff? So you tell us to keep the MOMUS as it is, not to give any potential for growth and enlargement, because it will require new staff. There was also criticism of the ultimate manipulation of art by an anti-grassman because of attracting sponsorships and resources from multiple sources of funding. I wonder whether the example we heard at the meeting of the bodies where the Macedonian Museum sponsored a museum-pedagogic programme for refugees and unemployed is something of an anti-grassroots nature. I do not think that attracting private resources to a public body does not enable it to become a philosopher and certainly leads to something unpopular, nor will it be against the interests of artists, nor will it undermine the conditions of their creative work, to have their artistic activities expanded, even by attracting private resources. We have heard about HYFANET. Many will not know that in 1997 it was defined in Law 2557 as a housing area of the State Museum, without even having been purchased by the State, which happened in 2006. It still belonged to the National Bank, it was granted to the European Capital of Culture, Governments, Administrations, and nothing went on to make use of the property, so that the State Museum would be in danger of paying superb sums as compensation to the contractor. It is a typical example of handshake and lack of planning, and 10 million euros had been spent on the market. Occupation is an old story, it's been since 2004. It's not happening now. I believe that any use should be serious, documented, integrated into a more comprehensive spatial planning with a social sign and consensus, which will certainly respect the Greek people's money and sacrifices.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u100	Mrs. Georgopoulos, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u101	I think the question of the algorithm, after the distribution of the note, will clarify several questions. Finally, our approach, of course, is not the pre-election period and the settlement of issues, as has been said, on account of elections. Many themes we received were open, hidden under the carpet and time was all to take their way. Among the many and great that this government has arranged is this bill for the establishment of the Metropolitan Organisation of Art Arts Museums of Thessaloniki. I hope that every success in this project will be assured that we will follow with interest the results of this great effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u102	Mrs Kefaloniann, rapporteur from New Democracy, has the floor. I'm sorry, Mrs. Kefaliannis, because Mrs. Georgopoulos has arrived and spent seven minutes, I'll give you five minutes with a tolerance, as with the other rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a weak political context with a weak government, without a single policy, with a Prime Minister hostage to his Bulgarian and uncontrolled partner. The evil that is accumulated in this space cannot be calculated. And it's not just the economy, it's also our national issues, which have been sacrificed on the altar of staying in power for a few more months. In the same altar civilization is sacrificed. The current government has now demonstrated that only in words can it cultivate the myth of the timeless relationship between the Left and culture. Four years of governance, four Ministers of Culture. This is the proof of the misguided failure to manage the chapter 'Culture'. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] This government has come to serve on its own, Minister, this mass of populism and political amoralism. I imagine that you will not get any distance from the government to which you belong for the mistakes of your predecessors, even though on the subject of the list of Overseas Privatisations you have done so too. At the moment that we are talking about, the transfer of historical monuments to the supremely created by you have already begun. I submit for the minutes the post ifeimerida.gr, the site you're trying to fade, as in any respect you don't like. [[At this point the Member, Mr Olga Keroyannis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And you're not doing anything at all. You continue to lie, to reassure, to twist, to make sure that transfers do not apply. You are also personally and of course exposed to the entire leadership of the Ministry of Culture, which is provokingly unfaithful in the face of this national transfer crime. You are now required, from the Step of the House, to take a stand, not with exodus, but with specific commitments. Make a commitment now, or you have a full responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, all these years the initiatives and announcements of the Ministry of Culture have been accompanied by sluggishness, fragmentation and wrong choices. I would remind you of the example of GNI and the handling of the Government for the protection of copyright. The structural and legal problems of the solution that you have finally proposed are currently confronted with new problems. At one time you must give a substantial and sustainable solution to the critical issues of the area. You have an obligation to do so in response to the heavy complaints that tarnish your own choices. You cannot always and intentionally bet on the transfer of problems, what you are doing today with "YFANET". Since you have not been able to solve the problem, you are abolishing the provision of the law of 1997, which stipulates that the building provides housing to the State Museum of Contemporary Art, because the logic is that "what we cannot solve is abolished". That is not a cultural policy, Minister. This is political ostrichalism exercises. That's good, then, the theoretical framework with which you surrounded, Minister, your new creation, the MOMUS. The truth, however, is that he also suffers administratively and you do not solve problems with his establishment, just repulse them. Ladies and gentlemen, the current concepts of cultural management show us a new path. They are aiming at more than safeguarding and exploring collections. The concept of museum experience is enriched, as it is linked to the particular cultural nature of each region. It is linked to the local society with a two-way relationship. The musical wandering passes through the special imprint of each society and presides the visitor for the experience he will experience. The way in which a museum operator is organised and active can therefore give his own account of the enormous dynamics of culture, of the extent of the benefits of culture in society as a whole and of prosperity. Thessaloniki is a city with its own distinct cultural and artistic stigma, with its own pulse. It is a centre of culture with its own history, in which spiritual and artistic enclaves are developed over time. For our part, we wish MOMUS to be a special example of a cultural entity, to play a central role in the development and improvement of the quality of life of the citizens of Thessaloniki, Macedonia and Greece. We are committed to helping in this direction and in the future, with vision, strategy and even more broad compositions, so we will vote in favour of this bill at first, but we will vote against the articles. Mr President, give me a minute to refer to the amendments. In particular, I would like to refer to the amendment tabled concerning PAOK and the granting of an area for the construction of new sports facilities. Ladies and gentlemen, we have long been clearly placed on this issue, inviting the government to go ahead with the regulation of an important project for Thessaloniki. This is what we did at a recent meeting with the president and members of the amateur PAOK. And then we were perfectly clear. We support all efforts to upgrade and modernise land and facilities for all groups that have serious and sustainable development plans. We support any initiative that can create better conditions for the inhabitants of Thessaloniki. PAOK had and will have our practical support for a mature and righteous work. We therefore vote on this amendment. We are voting against the other amendments from the Ministry of Education, as is the Ministry of the Interior, and we will say'residents' about the amendment from the Ministry of the Environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, too. We move on with Mrs Kefalidou, a special speaker of the PASOK-DIMAR Democratic Assent.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have begun your position by saying that you feel reluctant to be human. I don't know if it's a matter of character or if you feel exposed and solidify answers to questions that we've asked you in relation to the superstition, and while you're moving overboard, the transfers have already begun. Mrs Kefaliannis said so, but I too would like to ask you really about Neo Moro in the Venetian port of Chania, which is a jewel. Don't you feel reluctant about that, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u106	You'll get your answer. Don't be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u107	Do you not feel reluctant about this unique building, which 2010 has come into a situation that is extremely unique, as it has been renovated? Isn't that why this unique building in Chania you don't feel unpleasant?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u108	You'll get your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u109	I would therefore tell you that all your Ministry has to do, if it really wishes to do so, because it has not answered any of the questions so far, is to shield the country's monumental reserve against the surplus. It must also request the immediate withdrawal of the decision of the Governing Council of Economic Policy and the decision of the Minister of Finance and make legislation to protect the absolute public cultural wealth and cultural infrastructure. Anything else confirms that all of this is conscious choices. I shall also speak about the amendments, because there was no time at first reading. I shall start with the amendment tabled by the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, which we will accept, but with a small comment on the continuous extensions. There is one reason why it speaks of an increased burden on the services and that it takes more time to give the necessary documents. All this is very serious, with the only difference that it shows that there is a bad planning and a lack of organisation in the way you approach the issues. As regards Mr Gavroglou's amendment, which is another prompt move by the Ministry, I will tell you that this proposal - Amendment No 4547/2018 is a follow-up to the amendment which we did not vote on and now comes to fill the gaps in this legislation with one amendment. It is wrong to say - not to say otherwise - that you are coming to fill gaps. You come to cover your own weaknesses and malfunctions in the context you voted on. I will give you an example. Educational project coordinators are about 1/3 of school advisors. Why, then, are the gaps created bigger? They also became school directors, who were supplemented by teachers on the list of directors. The vacancies of teachers are therefore covered by school advisors returning to class and schools or by alternates depending on the region. How does this affect the functioning of PTSDs and PSFs? It's another excuse - lying, I'd say. The point is that we have pointed this out to Mr Gavroglou since 'no time'. Mr Gavroglou is, of course, carrying out his own plan in order to get rid of the school advisors and create greater inconvenience to education and much more problems. That is why we are voting against the bill. Let us now look at the subject that the Ministry of Culture has put forward in an amendment concerning the area allocated to the group of Thessaloniki, PAOK. I want to tell you there are some questions. Mrs. Kollia left very quickly, and we didn't have time to have a word. So I would like to ask the following question: In 2016 there was a decision taken by your government, by the Council of the National Defence Fund, which consists of the Ministry of Finance, the Chief of HNDGS, the Chief of HNDGS and two Deputy Chiefs of the HNDGS. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This decision, therefore, said that we will, Mr President, proceed with your tolerance - please - to the thirty acres we want to give PAOK, but that will be done against honour, and today you come and change your decision. What, then, has changed since 2016 and have arrived at today's concession without consideration? One question is that. The other issue is that it is planned that the Municipality of Thessaloniki should grant in use and without consideration any consortium area of the municipality to join the granted real estate. Has the city been questioned? The third question: What is it with the provision that third parties, not gentlemen, should be expelled from the Association when it comes to taking steps to settle and quantify the areas allocated? Are there? Who are these thirds? And, of course, the fourth question is: Is there a preached archaeological site within the licensed area? These are questions to make it easier for us to have a better picture of what problems can be created by this concession. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, I'll tell you that we're positive, because it's the only use that might be available for this area of thirty acres that are around the existing field.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u110	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u111	And of course, once again the government shows how inconsistent it is. I remember the furious way, the questions in the House, the statements and the mobilisations of the SYRIZA and Mr Tsipras himself, complaints and appeals in the Syriza. for similar such initiatives taken for the construction of other fields. But that's all history. Thank you, Mr President, for tolerance, and I would also like to thank my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, too. We're moving on with Mr. Grego, a special speaker of the Golden Dawn. Mr Grego, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be in my time. We spoke in detail to the committees, and today during the plenary on the bill and our parliamentary representative, Mr Iliopoulou, referred to current political developments. I told you, Minister, and I also informed the House that we have tabled dozens of questions concerning museums, foundations and archaeological sites. For example, mention of the antagonists Panayotarou, Lagos, Zarulia about the transfer of monuments to the Ultimate, "Removes the house of Paul Mela" by Mr Panayotarou again, on the problems facing the Museum of Zakynthos, by Mrs Zaroulia. There's really too many of them. "Image of abandonment presents the National Archaeological Museum", again by Mrs Zaroulia. "The Doirani Lake Museum remains closed," again by Mrs Zaroulia. I, too, have tabled a question for the Macedonian Museum. There are really too many questions that we have tabled and we expect answers and solutions. As far as the amendments are concerned, I am starting with Amendment No 1785/37. This is the amendment which initiates the necessary procedures for the construction of a new stage in Toumba. The Toumba stadium, as it currently exists, was inaugurated in 1959 and was erected to an area of thirty acres, which was acquired in 1957 by the then administration of PAOK from the National Defence Fund for 1.5 million drachmas. Today the owner of PAOK PAOK has announced his intention to build a new state-of-the-art stage in the position of the existing one, which will be demolished. The new stage, which will, of course, fall under the law of the amateur club, will meet all the international requirements and requirements, will have more than thirty-five thousand seats, will be completed in about two years and its construction costs will exceed EUR 70 million. The costs, according to the owner of PAOK PAOK, will be borne solely by the Greek State, while the owner of PAOK will have them for a period which will be agreed with the administration of the amateur club in order to make this investment. The construction of the new stage will certainly be a work of breath for the city of Thessaloniki. hundreds of jobs will be created for at least two years and an entire category of professionals in Thessaloniki will be financially launched, who will be invited to cooperate with PAOK PAOK and the company to undertake the new stage. At least we hope that Greek workers will be used, since unemployment in the city of Thessaloniki is really in a terrible situation. At this point, let us say that on 29 August, the Secretary-General of the People's League - Golden Dawn received a letter from the PAOK Sports Association and sent the following answer. I read it to you quite accurately: "In response of August 29, 2018, your letter on the plan for the renewal of the Toumba area and the construction of a new PAOK field, I would like to inform you that in a consistent position of the People's Association - Golden Dawn is that all the large and historical sports clubs in our country must have modern fields, with all the security specifications and be struggling in their natural seat, which is interwoven with each club's history and tradition. Since the history of PAOK is rich and is linked to the insurmountable countries of Hellenism, it is necessary to implement the work of the new stadium of Toumba, which will also be a point of reference for the history of the club. As Head of the Third Political Force in the country, I stand in your request and assure you that the Group of the People's League - Golden Dawn Parliament will support any legislative initiative in this direction." Let me say, however, and remind you that if you bother to look at the stadium of Toumba, the Toumba stadium is a huge banner in each race of PAOK, which says "Macedonia is one and it is Greek". As far as the other amendments are concerned: as regards No 1779/34, this is an amendment which introduces legislation which, according to the Minister for the Interior, was asked when, during the presentation at the first meeting of the committee, concerns several bodies of local government, several island municipalities, which submitted a request to the Ministry of the Interior, but did not give the necessary economic data either. It seems that the only certainty about this amendment is that the municipalities concerned will also be in charge of their budgets further from taking over the debts of the maritime companies and, of course, at the expense of the citizens. We are voting against it. With regard to Amendment No 1781/35, this is an amendment which regulates administrative matters of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs and with which the Minister is attempting to intervene in the critical structure of the educational system, on the grounds that a large number of training staff have been involved. The reason why this situation has arisen is, as mentioned in the explanatory statement, the application of the provisions of Law 4547/2018, which was published in the Official Journal of the Government, became law on 12 June 2018 and was signed by nineteen ministers of SYRIZA – ANEL, including the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs. In other words, four months after the entry into force of this law, Mr Gavroglou comes back in order to heal pathogens resulting from the application of provisions of law, which he himself had signed a few months ago. We are voting against it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. For Amendment No 1784/36: Once again, it is proposed to extend the deadlines for objecting to the contents of the forest maps and time limits for the preparation of the forest maps by the competent authorities. The Minister responsible shall also be authorised to approve and define the action plans on the development strategy and forestry. This plan should have been drawn up since 2014 and four years after being put into public consultation by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy. We will vote'residents' in this amendment. Thessaloniki - it sounded too much - should never be multi-cultural. Thessaloniki is the capital of Macedonia. Many government MPs spoke. I am sure that Thessaloniki, whenever there are elections, will "blacken" you for the treacherous agreement you signed in a tsatre, without the approval of the Greek people, and that you want to fill it with illegal immigrants, both for unemployment and for poverty and for degradation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, too. We proceed with Mr.Ioannis Delis, a special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece. Here you go, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much. For the amendments, Mr President, the reason, since we have nothing to add to the bill. First of all, I would like to refer to the amendment No 1779 by the Ministry of the Interior, for maritime companies, which have mainly island municipalities, the most famous 'people based companies'. So the Municipality of Tilos also had 70% of its shares and was on daily routes to and from Rhodes. This company did not withstand capitalist competition and its general assembly in March 2016 decided to resolve and settle it. The management of this company in liquidation has naturally left unpaid debts to the NAT and to third parties. In place now, private individuals created a new successor shipping company, of course, free of debt, after they first bought the ship of the previous municipal company very cheap, which they succeeded. The old debts, however, left them to be charged and paid back by taxpayers in public money. "My old art sieve", that is. It is precisely this way that this amendment by the Ministry of the Interior, which has a much larger line than the one shown in its words, makes it easier and that is why we are voting against it. In Amendment No 1781 by the Ministry of Education we vote'residents' on the basis of our overall opposition to the newly voted Law 4547 on support structures -'support' of course - of education. In Amendment No 1784 by the Ministry of the Environment on forest maps, as regards its first article, i.e. dates, we would clarify that we would vote or vote'residents'. I do not know whether it will be voted on in its entirety or whether it will enter pieces. Its second article, on the forestry development strategy plan, will vote against it, since the content of this plan is fully allocated by the Government to forest ecosystems in monopolistic groups for business. With regard to Amendment No 1785 on the granting of an area to PAOK for the construction of new sports facilities, first of all, we want to make it clear as a JRC that, not only do we agree, but also encourage public land to be granted, public land in order to build sport facilities and land for the needs and mass sport of all ages, but also the needs of racing and societal sport. Sport facilities, moreover, are the most basic prerequisite for the development of all sports and for the cultivation of sport as a lifestyle. Of course, we agree that every group must have sports facilities for its needs, especially when it comes to a historical and mass club, such as PAOK, which operates racing sections in almost all sports and, of course, a football team, which is a protagonist. Only we, as JRC, believe that the state must have responsibility for all this, in cooperation, of course, with the relevant bodies, municipalities, sports federations and unions. We are opposed, of course, to all of this being the case for businessmen, anonymous companies, who are active in sport, because we are all opposed to business activity in football and, more generally, sport. It is the business activity that, as you know, only has one incentive: Capitalist profit. This opposition - the keys and the tool, that is, the land to have them - has been expressed in all cases, for example for the AEK and for Larissa. Let's remind you here of what happened in Larissa. A modern field was built for the team. Once her former owner left, so she wouldn't be expelled from this stadium, the team was asked to pay the rent to the owner for a court that otherwise became for this team. The question arises from the government's amendment is this: does it serve exclusively sporting purposes of PAOK's and the city's people's association, or does it mainly have a business dimension? Because if one goes to paragraph 6, it will be written that according to the special spatial plan - which will be prepared as a presiding decree - for the granted area of twenty-nine acres and some acres, land uses are planned for installations - listen to - renewable energy sources and antenna parks, telecommunications, radio and television stations. These are things that have nothing to do with sport. We are also concerned about the fate of municipal facilities such as the swimming pool, the cultural centre, for those who know the region or the schools, which are around, since the amendment refers to the combination with any conglomerate area of the Municipality of Thessaloniki, without consideration. The most serious thing is that buildings located within this area can be demolished. In the meantime, what I mentioned does not have twenty years. We would like some clarifications. We'd like clarification for the archaeological site. Who's that? What about him? For all these reasons, Mr President, we are very cautious and will vote for 'Parties' in the amendment. What we see as a solution is to build sports facilities in Toumba, with the responsibility of the state, as it is a public area, and the PAOK association has the first say on them, in order to meet its needs, of course, understanding the obligations that this club has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, too. Mr. Zurari, will you speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u117	I will not speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Psariano has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall start with the amendment from the point of view of PAOK and sports facilities. Evidently, areas not used in amateur unions should be allocated, not to commercial corporations and UAEs. Obviously, we would be in favour of the concession of the land, since these prohibitions of the law on the concession of land belonging to the Ministry of National Defence did not apply, in return, and that is also an archaeological site. We would be positive in granting an area for the amateur PAOK, as we were positive for the AEK amateur group and for the double regeneration of the Botanic when today's Prime Minister, my old friend and partner, even from the City Council of Athens' Municipality since 2006, was a lever against the double regeneration of the Botanic, with the lovers and all that and against the concession of Philadelphia, which was already part of the Association of AEK. I said that in all the amendments we will vote for 'Paris' from a position of principle, since these amendments come to unrelated bills. But, in essence, I had to clear up these delicate points for the concession to PAOK, which we would agree to be in the amateur artist and not in the football anonymity, in a commercial business. Obviously, the whole bill, over eighteen years in total, I also said in my protagonist that it is an extreme election and election bait for clienteles. Because we take care of the artists of Thessaloniki, after the turmoil that has taken place for the Macedonian, with the agreement of the Prespecies, we take care of the artists, we give them a "chocolate". We give a "chocolate" to PAOK, we will also give Hercules, Apollo Kalamarias, Mars, Macedonian, to all the groups of Thessaloniki, to gather what we can. Mr. Famelos said nothing happened for forty years. It's forty-four years. Because there are four years of this government, which has not been done any of it, which could have done and which it still had to do, and it has not been done. This is in a positive direction, but Mr Famellos, who also made an observation to us, remembered just before the elections and even the tariff. I very briefly hope that Mr Dimitras also remembers the completion of the register and that we also do the enclosure, which had promised to be pre-electioned four years ago by the current Prime Minister. I mean, because we're talking about art and because we're moving in the opposite direction, that today, October 23, Manos Hatzidakis would have completed his ninety-three years. We are in exactly the opposite direction to that which Manos Hatzidakis and many others have been urging us to move forward. We are moving in exactly the opposite direction. And that should be very sorry for us. I will close, saying what Odysseus Elytis said: "Where he finds you evil and your mind blurs, let us refer to Dionysius Solomo, Alexandros Papadiamantis and Mano Hatzidakis." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u120	Thank you. Mr. Cavalella, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u121	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. I do not share at all the disappointment of some here who spoke about dystopic political context, because I believe that dystopic is the sterile opposition, which gives rise to such feelings, and which, as we all know, is paralysing the political ostrich that has been mentioned. A walk to museums cannot occasionally give us the opportunity to understand what cultural policy means, what strategies means, what a large platform of new museums means, as good words and as many wishes as this proves and how certain issues like this bill are dealt with, which one would expect to have greater understanding and convergence. "Transfers of archaeological sites", I heard the source of information, if I listened well, is a newspaper. Haven't you learned that in the mortgages, can anyone see if transfers have been made? That's elementary I believe and doesn't allow you to blame anyone for lying. Let's make something clear from the beginning one more time. The Ministry of Culture has transferred no monuments or other property from 2015 onwards to any company. He has neither transferred nor will he transfer any archaeological site, no museum, no monument and, more generally, no property, which belongs to cultural heritage. I repeat that what is mentioned as exceptions, you have to take it seriously that they are exceptions, that is, that the archaeological sites are excluded. So, at the moment, when we are in the second phase of this process, that is to say, we have the codes in the Register and have all been sent to the incubators of antiquities for verification, so that a final list can be drawn, at this time you are in an intermediate place to blame that transfers have been made. We will come back to the House this week and I think we will go into more detail about everything. After all, there has also been a communication from the Ministry of Culture today on the subject raised by Mrs Kefalidou. With regard to the Presidential Decree, to which Mr Javaras referred, I would say that Law 3429/2005 provides that private-law legal persons, such as the one we are discussing, may be adopted by a simple decision of the Management Board. We have added, for greater security, the joint ministerial decision. It is something that has also been decided by the Council of State. Therefore, I think we can sleep more quietly on this matter. Finally, I would like to say that at the end of this parliamentary procedure, we can be satisfied and I will leave micropsy or opposition negative. A new institution is born with a balanced architecture, with the agreement of the institutions. This is the vision of both the Ministry and the institutions and the city of Thessaloniki and I think it opens a new way for cultural organizations in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, I would like the floor for a question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u126	After the Minister has not provided for this in the Rules of Procedure. There is no debate in plenary. I'm sorry. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport is closed: "The establishment of a Metropolitan Organisation of Arts Museums of Thessaloniki and other provisions". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. To make it easier to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, nineteen articles, two amendments, the office article and the entire bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest you have to roll the touch screen. At the top right-hand side of the screen the number of articles remaining for voting is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the whole. After you register your vote, you have the opportunity to change it or to revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please address the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u127	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u128	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, following the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "The establishment of a Metropolitan Organisation of Arts Museums of Thessaloniki and other provisions", was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u130	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u131	The House therefore had the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-23-S1-commons.u132	With the consent of the House at 19.26' the meeting for the next Wednesday, October 24, 2018 at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work, legislative work: only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Urgent arrangements for the submission of statements of property and other provisions".
