ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Home Affairs, Economy and Development, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economics, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, the Deputy Ministers of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economics and Development, and the Deputy Ministers of Education, Research and Religious Affairs have tabled their 1-6-2018 draft law: "Reorganise the structures for support for primary and secondary education and other provisions". This draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent and has been referred to the relevant Standing Committee. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Article 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as in force on 1/6/2018: 1) Criminal forensics concerning the former Prime Minister, Konstantinos Site and former Minister of Economy, Giannis Papantoniou and 2) criminal forensics concerning the former Prime Minister, Antonio Samaras, former Finance Ministers, Georgios Papakonstantinou, Gikas Chardouvelis, Ioannis Stournaras, Ioannis Varoufakis and current Minister of Finance, Ekleidis Tsakalotos. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the first with No 1710/29-5-2018 topical question of the first cycle of the MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaou Maniou to the Minister of Health, entitled "Increased rates of Cesarean crosses in Greece". The Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, will answer. Mr Manius has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known that the health sector is of the utmost importance for the SYRIZA Government. During the governance of SYRIZA, significant changes and improvements in the health sector have been made despite adverse economic conditions and not only. According to the conclusion of the World Health Organization’s Greek annex, the rate of Cesarean in Greece reached 56.8% in 2016, when the percentage foreseen by the World Health Organisation is 15%. We passed around four times the percentage. There are recent measurements and strong indications that in 2017 we have exceeded this sad percentage. There are cities and regions of the country, such as Agrini, which is 83% in other regions, such as Chania 75%, Syros 69% etc. This is a very sad thing from both the economic point of view, with huge repercussions on the health of children born and on the treatment of women. There is also another element in which we would like you to place yourself. Increased Cesareans are also a significant burden on health expenditure. That's often a reason, a motive. We want, Minister, to ask you whether this increased Cesarean method in Greece is considered to be a problem. If so, have you studied or are you going to go to strategic planning to address it? Some scientific announcements have come out, of course, that they want to make us believe that Greek women are sociological and specific types of women around the world. They're unscientific, obviously, estimates. So we ask what measures the Ministry will take to study and deal with this sad first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u4	Dear colleague, thank you for the question. We had the opportunity to discuss this again in the past. Indeed, it is an image that - in my view - does not look forward to either the health system in the country or health professionals, especially in obstetricians - gynecologists. Clearly, these increased rates of Cesarean volumes are multiples from the rate that the World Health Organisation considers to be the maximum, of 15%, but also from the rate that currently prevails on average in Europe, which is around 30%. The percentages of Cesarean in total births in our country therefore touch about 60%. I think they're percentages which, obviously, put at risk, at increased risk of surgery, and the episcopals, pregnant women. I also think they are a very clear burden on the functioning of the health system. We had the opportunity, at our request and within the technical cooperation that we have developed with the World Health Organisation in our country, to have a scientific record and study of the phenomenon. We had a report last year and we gave it to the public. An attempt is being made to analyse the causes. Evidently, the reasoning is multifactorial. On the one hand, there is the feeling that this process is more friendly, more convenient, less painful than the experience of normal childbirth, and on the other hand, there are the so-called 'easy motives' to doctors - the obstetricians of the country, who, obviously, have the ability to organise their time better and possibly exercise defensive medicine, because there is always the danger, the fear of some sort of complications during birth and the feeling that the Caesarean option is safer, in this respect, in this respect, a solution. But, obviously, there are also economic incentives, because we know very well that the process of Cesarean in the private sector is much more expensive and often we know that there is an economic transaction. I think our aim should be at all these levels, which justify and do not justify the phenomenon, to have a set of multi-level interventions, which is gradually beginning to reverse this trend. First of all, what we have done, taking advantage of the conclusion of the World Health Organisation, is a debate with the scientific community, with the Association of Maimers - Gynecologists of Greece, with the Central Board of Health, which has a respective committee. There have been protocols for certain medical indications, on the basis of which the caesarean incision must be carried out. These protocols have been edited by the relevant committee of the ERCY, approved by its full-collection, adopted by the Ministry and posted on the website, both the Ministry and the ERCY. But there is now an issue of application, because this is always the difficult step. We have instructed the hospital administrations to check carefully and thoroughly and systematically this phenomenon and to ask doctors to document the option of recourse to the Cesarean section. I think this is first of all a step in which it will force doctors to take this step with more thought. I therefore think that at this stage the effort we need to make is to convince the scientific world of the country and, on the other hand, pregnant women, women and society that the training of doctors in our country, the level of functioning of public nurses and, in particular, of public nurses, the training of other health professionals, midwives, obstetricians, etc. In general, the functioning of the health system in our country ensures that childbirth, which is a natural option - the choice of nature - can be done in our days safely, with credibility, without risk to the mother or to the child. I think that's the most crucial issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. My colleague, Mr Manius, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u6	Minister, we will not disagree that there is this need for some important steps to be taken in this direction. However, I would like to dwell on two, three points. The first point is: the public health system has succeeded - and this is important - to have a sufficient share of the births in our country. The hospital managers should not just look at whether the protocol is complied with, but whether the basic logic is respected. In other words, in a hospital two days before Christmas, there can be an introduction of twelve on-the-spot women and the next day in the morning the eleven in Cesarean and one in her fear of giving birth to the evening. This must become a risk signal to all administrations. We also know that the Cesarean birth invoice is different from the normal birth invoice - about twice - and the Cesarean invoice with complications is even more increased. In fact, 80% of Cesarean clinical data have been found and 100% have complications. So it's obvious here that it's not a protocol, it's not a woman's age, but it's all the fault that it's the uncontrollable diffusion of EEA money. That is why we also need results there too. A third point to which we agree, of course, is that we must convince ourselves in addition to the scientific community which is sceptical - for reasons that she knows - and women. The right body that can convince women to choose normal delivery, as far as we all know, is the midwife. In Greece we have a rich scientific potential of midwives that run public and private hospitals and help doctors. We have voted in law to establish and promote the logic of obstetrics. We must therefore, by this law that we voted on last year, activate these provisions, build the midwives which must enter the primary health sector, so that they are the first to come into contact with pregnant women. In addition, midwives can help in women's preventive medicine and breast cancer and female genitals. I would therefore like to see the measures that we are taking - and I am speaking in the first plural, although you are ruling, of course, I am not ruling, I am a government MP - in these directions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr Colleague, and respect for time. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u8	I think we fully agree with the conclusions. So we have a problem, which is important in terms of medically documented and qualitative care at our place. That's true. We have detected it, analysed it, printed it out, and I think that what is needed now is measures of applied policy, knowing of course that it requires time and effort to change established perceptions and behaviours of times, both in terms of health, but also in terms of women and society. Therefore, there is a need for a systematic effort to inform and raise awareness, but also for control measures. The control measures concern, firstly, the administrations, the ones we supervise of public hospitals. This directive has been given to check, as you have said, unusual practices, which obviously take place in the context of planning and not in the context of a normal variation in the circumstances relating to childbirth. There is the question of control on the part of the EEAS and the HYDRA of the fictitiously increased complications, recorded in many private homes, in order to increase the cost of childbirth. So there are many distortions and diseases in this system. In our view, the answer is: Faithful implementation of internationally recognised guidelines and protocols. We need not do more than the serious and developed world does, and above all we need to strengthen the health system's control mechanisms. For the role of the midwives you are right to point it out. We have put in last year's law on primary care, Law 4486/2017, the distinctive role of midwife in primary care, the development of midwife networks in primary care. There was a pivotal and very successful example in the 6th RC, in the Prefecture of Achaea and in the neighbouring counties. We are trying to develop this throughout the country. Evidently, midwife can have a very important role, familiarize the woman and inform her properly about the normal delivery process. We really think that through and from this emphasis on primary care and overcoming the health-centered nature of the system of gynaecological and maternity care and strengthening the role of midwives really, slowly, we can take some measurable steps in this area.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. Subsequent to the first 1711/29-5-2018 topical question by Mr. Prevezis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Barkas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Urgent needs for the training of health centers in Paris, Kalalalaki and Philippida in Prevezis". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, reform of primary health care is a progressive policy of this government, which radically changes the Charter and philosophy of the National Health System, burdening prevention and diagnosis. Through the new Institute of Local Health Units, the well-known TOMY, which will soon begin its operation in the city of Preveza, it is expected that the public health system of Prevezis will be further supported and upgraded. However, the reality is different in the field of primary health care in the countryside and in particular in the Centres for Health of Parga, Canalaki and Philippid of the Preveza Prefecture. These health centres show great shortages in medical staff, so that they do not function in a proper way. For example, the Parga and Canalian Health Centres have been looking alternately for a long time. The Parga Health Center updates the monthly one-days and the Kavalliu Health Center the scales, the period when the health needs of the Municipality of Parga are now, during the summer months, increased due to the start of the tourist season. In addition, the problem is exacerbated, as the administration of the 6th Health Region of the Peloponnese, Ionian Islands, Epirus and Western Greece took the decision to suspend the on-call of the Philippida Health Center from May 1st. The Philippiada Health Centre now operates exclusively on regular breakfast hours, so that local society is upset and struggling to meet its health needs. I would also like to stress that the prior opening of the EKAB Mesopotamou Municipality of Parga, in the presence of the Secretary-General of Health, Mr Giannopoulos, was a pleasant and important event for the wider region, as a permanent request for twenty-five years of local society was justified. This should be stressed that it has taken place within difficult budgetary conditions for the country. However, despite the upgrading of the emergency pre-privileged care and care of the citizens of the Municipality of Parga, there is still the problem of subsistence of the Philippida, Parga and Canalaki Health Centres. Since health is a social good and a fundamental right of every citizen of this country, can the Minister ask what action he will take to ensure that the Centres for Health of Parga, Kavalaki and Philippiada take 24 hours a day and provide quality health services to residents and visitors in Prevezis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u12	My dear colleague, I think we have also discussed with you personally the problem of the two specific Prevezis health centres: the Paris Health Centre and the Canalium Health Centre. This difficulty was aggravated by the withdrawal of doctors from the Paediatric Hospital of Preveza. Because in order for it to remain on a daily basis and to be able to reliably meet the needs of the citizens of the wider region, the 6th Health Region made some changes and moves. There has been an attempt to rationalise the management of specialist doctors in the wider area, so that we can ensure the major one. The major was to be upright and functional, the Hospital of Preveza, and in particular its pathological clinic, which is a critical clinical. This plus the need to strengthen the subordinated Parga and Canalian Health Centres - which, despite repeated calls made - led to this malfunction, particularly the Philippida Health Centre. This health centre has been temporarily suspended, but knowing very well that the Hospital of Arta is very close. If I'm not mistaken, it's about a quarter of the time spent. It was therefore considered to be a temporary solution, until some form of combined intervention is made, which could reverse the whole situation. Also, let me say that in the Kanakalaki and Parga health centers, there has been care in two regional medical establishments to double the number and make them single-sighted in order to cover all positions. Serves a doctor in one of them, in consultation with the Army. The plan is, in a proclamation of permanent doctors of the ESS about four hundred and fifty places, which we will make within June for primary care, to provide for two places in the Paris Health Centre and a permanent doctor's post for the Kavalliu Health Center. We also intend to transform these two health centres under special legislation into the A-type regime, which provides additional incentives and the possibility, after five years, to move to other centralised structures of the health system. This is a strong incentive to attract. Where this scheme applies, we have a better staffing system. Of course, our aim is at the Philippida Health Centre to restore the extended hours, that is to say by the end of the evening. It is judged by the 6th Health Region and by the presence of patients at night, that the conditions for 24-hour operation are not met, since they are very close to the Hospital of Arta. Also - this is something that we are exploring these days - we have a availability of two specialist doctors from health centres in central Macedonia to move to the Paris Health Centre this year. We are making an effort to reach agreement between the health regions in order to facilitate this movement and to cover it as permanently as possible - and with qualified doctors of course - this gap that has been created. At the same time, we seek to strengthen the pathological clinic at the Preveza Hospital with an additional adjunctive doctor and two private doctors recruited on a block so that they can cover on-call. So, through a grid of global interventions, we think that we will soon create conditions for greater stability in staffing and hospitals, which are the major ones, but also of the neighbouring health centres, which I understand, particularly during the summer season, are very burdened by the great tourist movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there is no doubt that the government's attempt to save the heart of the health system in the Preveza Prefecture and put doctors in the hospital has become a reality. Now the hospital compared to January 2015 has more than double the number of doctors. And it is true that this was the primary objective of the Ministry's leadership, which was accepted by local society as well. Indeed, I have to say that the problem of the functioning of health centres has been created in the last few years - particularly in the last two years - because several doctors have retired or left the system in the process of retirement and because they have not been provided for this to be replaced. I must say, however, that there is one - if you would like - in my view an incomprehensible decision on the functioning of health centres. In the winter months, let's say the on-calls come out in the way of the two Health Centres, Canalaki and Parga, precisely because they reduce the population of the region. There's people in the area. There are many farmers living there and many people. In the summer, however, the population is growing very much because of the presence of tourists in the wider region. So, as you can see, the interrogation of the two health centers, and in particular of the Parga Health Center, is a major problem, because the lives of people, tourists in the wider region are at stake. I am glad to hear the three points you have announced, two on the Park Health Center and one on the Canalium Health Center. Also, I am pleased to hear that type I health centres will be characterized as type I health centres, which was a request from the local residents. But I have to tell you something, Minister. I do not know where your communication on the Philippida Health Centre, which will operate not 24/7, but by 23.00, from what I understand, because this has not been reflected in any plans by the Ministry of Health so far. At meetings with the relevant Secretary-General of the Ministry of Health, I think he had not announced that either. Also, Minister, I would like to tell you that there are, of course, doctors who want to come and help the two Health Centers in Parga and Canalaki. I'm talking about the movement of the two doctors, you said, from northern Greece. I must also say to you, however, that there are several health centres in the wider area of the sanitary region to which the Preveza prefecture belongs, which could possibly, with a debate with them or with some assistance to them, at least be able to do the on-calls now that the tourist season has already begun. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u16	I think there is no doubt that we have a difficulty in staffing these primary care structures, despite the repeated efforts that have been made, I stress this again. It should also be recognised that attempts have been made to move from adjacent structures. I have a picture that also from the Health Centre, from the PEDY, that is, from the city of Ioannina, there has been a move to cover on-calls at the Park Health Centre, especially during the summer season where increased demand exists. My dear fellow Member, as there is now a regime in place where the majority of young doctors are emigrating abroad, so that the availability of qualified doctors in the country is dramatically reduced - I would remind you that there are about eighteen thousand doctors who have moved the years of the crisis, there has been a great leak of scientific potential, especially in the countries of central and northern Europe - as there are, therefore, this reduced availability of doctors in our country, both there will be problems of coverage, especially in some island, barren, difficult areas. We are trying to make the most rational use of the existing potential. This creates difficulties. When you do emblematic solutions, there are obviously side effects or sometimes the best possible handlings are not available. The plan is with additional incentives, as I said before, to strengthen the permanent coverage effort. When this happens, the data will be reviewed. That is why I said that for Philippiada at the moment, the plan is to increase the ability of the health centre and the afternoon hours, as a first step, and whether there is sufficient medical capacity to allow us to have 24 hours to talk about it again. However, the picture I have received from the 6th Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the data on the presence of patients, especially during the evening hours, is that this is currently not causing a serious operational problem, given the proximity of the Hospital of Arta. This is also the issue of on-call rotation, which I think the objective should also be to acquire these two health centres, which are charged in the summer, which are self-reliance on covering and serving them. I think it really is crucial that the Preveza Hospital now has a much more stable staffing and functioning. It has been reinforced by ten auxiliary doctors, from what I have seen these days and several permanent ESS doctors' positions have been announced. I think we really need to insist on this effort, and above all what we are interested in is to create a mechanism for early needs in the health system. This legislation was adopted the day before yesterday, by analogy with subsidiary doctors to be able to recruit other ancillary staff, through a transparent and flexible system of listings by specialisation in each health region, nurses, technicians, manufacturers, other health professionals, so that we can fill the very large gaps in the health system at this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. Subsequent to the second question under number 1707/25-2018, the second time question from the Member of Parliament I Piraeus of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Without pediatrician for two and a half months, the Aegina Health Center - Deficiencies in ophthalmologist and ORL." Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this question has been tabled for three months. I was pleased to read a communication that on Friday, the 2nd Health Area intends to give a solution to what has to do with the pediatrician, putting an auxiliary doctor for the Aegina Health Center. Minister, you know, because you come from an island, that islandity is something very special, and I heard the colleague who spoke about Preveza, Parga and all these health centres in trouble, as I am sure they are almost all over Greece. However, in the islands and especially in relation to Aegina, an island that in winter has fifteen thousand permanent inhabitants and in summer has sixty and seventy thousand permanent inhabitants, an island where one needs 32 euros with the conventional ship and 39 euros with the speedboat, an island where the pediatrician attended four and a half cases in 2016 and four thousand six hundred children's cases in 2017, I am glad that a temporary solution will finally be provided. It took three months to answer the question - and, as I said, it accidentally came out on Friday - and it had to be six months without a pediatrician, following the tragic loss of the children of the Aegina Hospital, who, unfortunately, left too fast from life. But the problem, as you know, Minister, is not just about what's about the pediatrician. It's about the rest of the specialties. It's about the ophthalmologist, it's about the ORL, which is about to close almost a year. Even recently, the agricultural doctor left Aegina. It's about a gynecologist, it's about orthopaedics. I really would like to ask you, looking into the eyes: Are you satisfied with an island that is forty minutes away from Athens, but has huge problems, from the level of health provided by public structures, as is the only public health structure the Aegina Health Centre? Of course, I have asked you another question for two and a half months now for a tragic incident, which also took place in Aegina, where for an hour a young man was waiting for the ambulance to come and for him to cross, but he lost his life, unfortunately, because he did not have an ambulance. In no case do I blame those who work in the health center. And administrative and medical staff are people who are making superhuman efforts. But at some point these problems must not be solved? We are in 2018 and it is a shame forty minutes from Athens that people die in asphalt!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u20	My dear colleague, we have often said that we have no intention of evoking a reality that remains difficult in the health system, particularly in primary care, because in the years that have taken place there has been a very systematic effort to meet urgent needs and gaps in hospitals in particular. That's where the heavy burden was given. There, due to the disorganization of primary care structures in urban centres after n. 4238/2014, had transferred the vast majority of the incidents to their regular external medical services and TLs, due to the on-call of the major hospitals. There, therefore, urgent support was needed so that the health system would not collapse. That's what happened. Today hospitals - everyone recognizes it, at least the well-meaning people of the health system, I think people recognise it - are more accessible to the world, have a stable and constantly improved function. We did not have the opportunity to do this with the same completeness and first-class care structures. But this year, in 2018, we think it is a year where this improvement will be very measurable, and by supporting today's health centres and slowly putting new public structures into operation, local health units. Already over seventy are operating across the country and the image that comes from and the local communities are very positive. The Aegina Health Centre is obviously a health centre which, in my view, has a decent staffing. I mean, right now, they're serving ten qualified doctors. But of course, because it covers a very large population, especially in the summer, special care is also needed because of islandity, of course. It also has a sufficient staffing and framed by other staff. There are twenty - five other persons who serve. There are doctors of many specialties. Besides general medicine, there's pathologist, radiologist, dentist, microbiologist. There was the pediatrician's deficit. That's right. These days, an auxiliary pediatrician has been served for three years. I think that gives a security to the staffing and functioning of this health centre. There was also an aid with equipment from the health centre - from what I am told - given a respirator for the courses, monitor and a blood gas analyser and ronin to deal with the urgent incidents. There has also been a concession of an ultrasound for the more complete diagnostic investigation of patients. As far as the issue of the periodic presence of certain qualified doctors is concerned, since there are no such specialties in the health centre, such as ophthalmologists and ORLs, the 2nd Health Region assures us that there will be an effort from the adjoining hospitals of the 2nd Ministry of Health - and not just - to support this health centre. Now, because health centres belong to the health regions, their structures are decentralised and they have no organic relationship with a particular hospital - they used to be the 'Juneoe' - we have more periodical capacity to cover these needs, particularly in the summer months. So I think there is an aid plan. I was also informed that the position of the agricultural doctors in the Regional Agencies in the Health Center doubled and that the doctors were added to the status of regional doctors entitled to the allowance of EUR 400 plus the salary, which led to the cover of a second rural doctor. An effort is therefore being made through this overall intervention to strengthen and upgrade the functioning of this health centre.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u21	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u22	Thank you again, Mr President. You know, Minister, you didn't convince me that there was a plan and I'm talking to you with absolute honesty. I told you that three months ago this question has been tabled and you did not come to answer it. I understand, of course, the workload, but it was something very serious. From Genaris there was no pediatrician in Aegina. I told you, of course, that the incidents of the pediatrician on the island were four and a half thousand a year. You told me there were some specialties. But I talked to you about peak specialties. I told you there was no orthopaedic. There are seventy thousand people in the summer. Is it possible that there is no orthopaedic on the island? One! I told you there was no gynecologist. There are seventy thousand people and there is no one! Obviously, I know that all these vacant magazines will now be covered by the 2nd Health Region, which is, of course, consumed in getting doctors only from the "June". Do you know what the pediatrician told me who came on Tuesday and Thursday on the island for three and a half hours in all this suffering? He saw thirty and thirty-five incidents. And if someone gets sick, if someone hits, we're forbidden from Thursday and then hit? Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday should only be hit by someone, so they can have a medical care? I do not come here to stand up and tell you the problems and tell you that you have destroyed, that you have shown yourself. I come here to discuss serious issues. And it's serious, it's a big deal, Minister. It is not possible on an island of seventy thousand inhabitants that there is no orthopedic in the summer. I'm telling you as simple as possible: two months ago - I'm telling you again - one hour was the wounded down on the ground, on the asphalt. The excuse was that there was no ambulance driver. There was no driver! A thirty-five-year-old lad! And I'll tell you again that I'm not coming here to shed crocodile tears and accuse you. Can we give the problems a solution? Can we help the inhabitants of the islands to feel security and not to feel that they are children of lower God? I imagine what is going on in the other remote regions on the remote islands if this is done in Aegina. Of course, it was important what you said about Agistri. And I congratulate you on that. It was a problem. But this is where the rural doctor left Aegina. Can we give a solution, Minister, to these problems? I think that society, a society with so many problems, a society that is so heavily taxed, overtaxed. I told you how much the ticket does to move a citizen from Aegina and come to Piraeus. It's 32 euros with the conventional and 39 euros with the catamaran. Well, isn't that man entitled to have a orthopaedic, or is that woman having a gynecologist in the health center, so that she can be served? We're not asking for anything terrible. I think that is the minimum obligation for the state to deal with society and the citizens. And we are here to assist you and help you on this, because these are problems that are not colourless, Minister. They are problems that need to be solved and we need to put them forward and first of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u23	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u24	My dear colleague, I think, no matter how much you want to say that you do not care about the opposition rhetoric, unfortunately you always do. So you told us that we don't have a political plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u25	For Aegina, for sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u26	Look, after two and a half years of systematic effort to ensure the survival of public care in the country, to ensure universal coverage, particularly of uninsured citizens, to give priority to public hospitals and public structures, to moralize the system, to promote critical reforms that have never been made by the establishment of the ESS, such as primary care, in the field of supplies, in the field of medicine, in the field of hospital administration, to tell us that there is no plan, in my opinion, insults human intelligence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u27	I told you about Aegina.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u28	Yeah. Listen, Aegina isn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u29	There's not even seventy thousand people!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u30	Summer. It has fifteen thousand permanent residents.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u31	Why don't you say 15 thousand?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Polakis, don't answer both Ministers, because I might just take the floor as an Egyptian, and I'll give you the picture I have. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u33	Okay, don't worry, Mr. President. We won't be late. Look, to be honest. We cannot today as a country, as a state, as a public health system, fully cover all the necessary positions - particularly doctors - throughout the island, mountainous and inappropriate territory. That is quite clear. There's no such doctors available. As much as we call for positions, my dear fellow Member, unfortunately there is ambiguity, there is a greater tide in the large urban centres. We know that very well and we see it in every notice and in every attempt we make to develop the public health system, give greater emphasis, we all seek the political system together, possibly more powerful incentives to attract. Let's look at all this, especially in the islands. You referred to specialties, of course, where every reasonable person considers it necessary to exist on an island. You didn't mention the cardiologists. The first thing to think about, apart from the basic specialties of a family doctor, a pediatrician, a pathologist and a general doctor, is the cardiologist. Unfortunately, we cannot have cardiologists, nor are we forecast to be organic in too many health centres. We can't have so many cardiologists everywhere. What we do, however, is to strengthen with qualified doctors the sorting and proper management of emergency situations, both through the means and the upgrading of the system and the aerospace and the waterways through the EAW - this system is being upgraded now, and from one to the other we will soon have three aerospace bases in the Aegean - we will really be able to fully and without jeopardise the lives of patients to cover these needs. There is a strong feeling of islands' insecurity on health issues. That's true. We know. This is a major challenge for both the health system and the country. We are trying to take realistic steps, based on real needs. From this point until you tell us that there is no plan, when we are going to re-launch the empty positions of local health units throughout the country, we will be proclaiming more than four hundred permanent doctors from the ERC, especially targeted at health centres and the countryside and urban centres, and we will make new types of EEA contracts with family doctors, we will proceed for the first time to new institutions of regional doctors and primary care structures. These are institutional and operational reorganisations of the health system. What can we do now? I think the signal that this government has given is that public care is a priority. It understands the difficulty and anguish many times in some areas, but it really cannot change this difficult reality, which has deteriorated during the crisis and during the course, I would say, five years where we have been constantly leaking and leaving the health system, no intake and continuously reducing operating costs, and now we are on a clearly stable and developmental track.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Minister. Here is the sixth question (No 1622/8-5-2018) from the F Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "For the successors of the 8-month competition for the two Larissa Hospitals". Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. As you mentioned, the title of the current question relates to the tender that took place in October 2016 and concerned the recruitment of thirty-two employees in positions with eight-month contracts for cleaning, banking and storage qualifications in both hospitals in Larissa, namely both at the University Hospital and at the General Hospital of Larissa. It was a contest via ASPD, which, as I said before, was published in 2016. The successful tables were posted in February 2017. At the same time, these structures, which are being discussed, namely cleaning up, bankers and storage places, were, until then, covered by the contractor, the company 'HPIROS', which until then had these sectors and which it has applied, that is to say, made insurance measures against the contract notice. As a result, the recruitment of workers in these sectors has been frozen for more than fifteen, sixteen months. Of course, there was also the indignation and anguish of the successful ones that part of them, in passing, was also in the contracting workshops. They therefore demand and claim that the Government and the Ministry intervene immediately in order to unblock this process, this case and be able to work, even for those eight months. Therefore, the question put to the Ministry and the Minister is what measures the Minister intends to take to resolve this problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr Vice President. Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Lambroulis, friend George, thank you for the question. First of all, I thank you for asking a question about one thing which, when we announced it, you had condemned as disguised black work and said, anyway, that we were replacing contractors with individual contracts. To tell the full story, the University of Larissa has been awarded contracts after the second piece of legislation, because in the first piece of legislation, if you remember, the Council of State had taken the first law into account. We had been ahead of time and had done twenty - three hospitals and work contracts and threw the law. We have legislated again and then called the University of Larissa, as well as many hospitals in the country. Unfortunately - and I say this on the grounds of knowledge, Mr Lambroulis - in a number of hospitals in the country, not in the majority, in a few but quite a few, we have been blocked by the judges. That's the reality. I'm going to give you a few examples. Athens General Hospital “C. GENMARKS' here and next to the hospital in which you specialize, "Save", about the same time, proclaim the "GENERAL" hundred and eighty places for cleanliness and, if I am not mistaken, fifty, sixty the "Save". Both contractors are appealing. Let's say the part which examines the suspension of execution in the "Bigs", IB - another part is, of course - what is being considered in the "Save". In the IB, which examines the "Salvation" the judge goes out and says that "individual contracts due to the reduction of the costs they have for the hospital due to the increase and improvement of the working conditions of the workers are in favour of the public interest, the suspension of the contractor's company is not acceptable, go on". They've been going on for a long time and they've been there and they're happy and the people who work and the hospital that pays less and the workers who get more and they're clean, etc. Gender Hospital. Listen to the reasoning of a ruling judge of the Greek territory: To proceed with individual contracts undermines the contractor's profit and accepts the suspension. The same happened in Tripoli, and so was here, as in some other hospitals in the country. In "Evangelism" we managed and proceeded with cleanliness. That's a big part. We save 200,000 euros a month in the “Evangelism” and workers are paid 200 to 300 euros above. Here, let me tell you this, the complaints in Greek justice! We've played a big game, and we've put them in tough interests. We've been applying for parole once and twice. She's rejecting it. Will we go through a regulation that those who have been rejected by the judges should go ahead? They'll tell us we'll do it Colombia. I'm sorry, we're going to do this, Venezuela, that we're going to build a party state, and we're not going to have respect for justice. Some contractors tried to block it through the Independent Judicial Appeals Authority, which is not the supply of equipment or a tender for a project. They're employment contracts. They went to do it from there. We stopped it. It's a constant struggle. We are thinking of another legislative initiative that will unblock the hospitals that have been stopped, because, on the basis of our Constitution, this process must be followed. Because this judge in Tripoli, in Larissa, made the "birth" decision "do not go any further". Think of what you want because he got it, when the hospitals support and say that where we were giving 1 million, say, 800,000, where the workers got 300 and 400 euros, they'll get 700 and 800 euros. It tells you 'no, do not go any further'. And in Attica, we did this, and indeed there they had the courage - because it is only a matter of courage - since we had hired it, they were then called and they said 'give them off', which, if they were decided on insurance measures, after the contracts had been signed, does not have legal effect. There must be final judgments and so on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That's where a judge or judge asked - I don't remember what it was - to fire them. We didn't do it, of course, because we couldn't fortify and do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u38	Minister, finish it up. You have a dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u39	You help me, too, and you mobilize me. Mobilisations must be made. How is it going to be now? When we say a word about court decisions, you say that we are insulting justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u40	Minister, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u41	I'm not saying you say it, but when you have such decisions, can't you criticize them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u43	Minister, first of all, let's make something clear. We have never supported and voted and, of course, we have done so. I mean your reference to the eight months and in general this type, to the promotion of flexible forms of work and to the public sector. On this basis we are voting against legislation, amendments that have occasionally come to other draft legislations. On this basis, of course, because we have a firm and permanent position that the worker, the workers who will be employed in the public sector, should have a permanent and stable job. Like the workers in these areas, if you wish, which is being asked the question today. I mean the storage areas, the banking sector, the cleaning sector, and it goes on to say that it was in contracting workshops because you do not have permanent jobs. However, on the basis of this development, we have also brought this issue to the attention of the workers and the workers' centre in Larissa, of course, in the direction of highlighting the problem, but also of committing, if you wish, the Minister, the Government and the way in which these issues are resolved. Why do you see that these workers are also 15 months hostage? In introductory terms I put the word 'host' in the sense that they cannot undertake work because of the situation created by the insurance measures of this particular company, which we are now talking about for Larissa. Of course, if I am not mistaken, and according to this information, this concerns, as you said, different hospitals, 40%. I mean on the ground. Maybe it's less. It could be more. That doesn't matter. The point is that the procedure has been stopped. People were to be hired, even for eight months of work, and nothing progresses. Can we go to justice? You mentioned this in your prototype. Are we going to turn to justice? We're not setting up a court of law here. You are required by the government, if necessary, as you have said in the protagonists, to resolve this issue or these issues. There is great pride in the issue of industrial relations, laws and new memoranda, the memorandum laws. I would like to open a parable, Mr President. We had tabled in 2016 a proposal for a law concerning both minimum wage and employment relations. In fact, this proposal for a law has turned it into a timely question, since the government has refused to bring it into discussion with the relevant committees. It is a proposal of five hundred thirteen unions, federations, workers with specific articles which abolish a number of provisions of all this anti-government framework which has been passed in recent years and by previous governments and by the present government. In fact, I am referring specifically to the fact that a topical question was raised on Friday, Article 11 and the abolition of flexible working relationships. Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck. As a government now, I'm not saying as a Minister of Health. So, in this respect, because you mentioned that you might make some legislative arrangements, we believe that they should be made immediately so that these people, the thirty-two employees, can also get into the process of taking up their duties. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-six students and students and five educational attendants from the 47th Municipal School of Heraklion. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u45	Mr Colleagues, I take your position as follows, that in so far as the government has legislation which effectively blocks the suspension of recruitment to a number of hospitals resulting from judicial decisions, you will vote in favour of it and support it without stars and black-working footnotes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u46	Let's see it first. Because you are bringing in other amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u47	I didn't interrupt you. Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u48	You're right, but you're causing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u49	The workers are right. For them we legislated twice. That's what we did for parole. Unfortunately, however, the inadmissible Greek justice, whose decisions must be respected, as our Constitution says, decided on the grounds that the contractor's profits are greater than the public interest. And here on this occasion I will use the rest of the time to report publicly something that happened yesterday with the Independent Judicial Appeal Authority, because it really is to pull your head's hair. You know, for the first time, there has been, by law, the possibility for regions that self-government can finance hospital equipment from own resources. And I'm talking about the great programming contract that we made between the First and the Second Health Region with the Attica Region and the tender notice, which is in the opening phase of tenders. In other words, it was completed, despite the fact that wasteful and tied up a year ago so that this competition would not take place, with EUR 40.6 million, to equip all hospitals in Attica with very serious equipment, which increases the capacity of the public health system. In fact, some machines first enter the public health system, such as the Cyberknife system, the microsurgery system that comes into Nice, the PET scan, the cyclotrons that produce the radiopharmaceutical, etc. Well, I can inform you that yesterday, in a provocative decision, a section of the Independent Prosecutor's Appeals Authority suspended the continuation of the tender, due to the objections raised by two companies by GE and SIEMENS - there is also a lot of enthusiasm for SIEMENS - because - and indeed this reason is the suspension - the objections were this: we have done extremely high technical specifications and very specific, and we have said that the cheapest price - not what was the most advantageous price, but the cheapest - with very high quality and specific, and to the latest detailed technical specifications. So what did we say? To cut off the story of the delay that they made in each contest, we said: Each one of them will participate, each company will make a responsible statement about each machine that my machine meets the specifications you have set, these analytical, very high quality - they submit a responsible statement and not all the paperwork of technical specifications - and that is my price. And we'll tell the broker then you'll bring them to us to check on them, etc., so that we can proceed with the award or not. By signing a responsible statement, they have a responsibility. Their guarantee falls if they have said that they have it, but it turns out they don't have it. The time for selecting and awarding the contract is also too short. What's going on and saying? No, he says, it must not be that way, because we have now said the public interest in the health of patients, but there is also the interest of the company, because the price it owes will be known. And he puts it in court with the Independent Appeals Authority on the same scale and leaning it to the same, that the price offered by the company will be learned from taking a machine that will save patients a few months earlier. That's what we got. And that's what we're fighting for.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u50	Modifications when will you bring, Minister, for what we bring to the question? When's he coming? It'll start with the summer sections.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u51	Soon, Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Minister, you're done. Follow the third question with number 4226/9-3-2018 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP Laconia of the New Republic, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of Health, on the dispatch of two ambulances to the EKAB Molas and aid with medical, nursing and administrative staff of the Laconia Prefecture. Here, Mr. Davaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, about three months ago I had tabled a question to the Ministry of Health on the issue of two ambulances for the Molai Hospital. The question from March comes to be discussed today, three months later, due to events related to the political leadership. We realise that they have important tasks to do, we understand the burden, but in any case the effectiveness of parliamentary control must be seen in these cases. It cannot be discussed three months after a question. That is a good thing, though, because in total we can raise a number of issues. At the Peloponnese Regional Council in February which passed us, there were before everything, before the formation of the Regional Council, various tours of officials, ministers, etc. the five counties of the Peloponnese. Some of these tours we saw in Laconia. So, one step came from Mr. Vernardakis and told the workers at the Molan Hospital that two EMCDDA ambulances are coming to Molas Hospital. That was basically the reason why, Minister, I tabled the question, asking me to know what happened to these two ambulances. There are reports that say they're lost on the street. I'm tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Davakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] More generally, I would like to know what is going to happen with the EKAB sector at the Molas Hospital, given the problems it faces and, given the fact that it has basic support in another large region in Naples. Mr. Paulakis will know as far as I know. As Mr Katsafandos said earlier about Aegina, there may be eight thousand permanent residents, but during the summer months the population is five times greater than the tourists, but also all those who come to show up. I would therefore have liked to have a clear answer to all this, but also to the nursing and medical staff, which the Prime Minister had announced would come, on the regional council, which positions would be paid and what would be done with all the issues relating to the case, called 'health' for the Laconia Prefecture. I understand that you cannot answer a timely question all this, but I would like some specific answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u55	Thank you for the question, Mr Davaki. Now we're answering what we're doing, not what we're gonna do. In 2015, the Samara government then planned the Molas Hospital to be financed with EUR 1.33,000. We have finally financed it, with a EUR 30 000 exceptional grant increase, with EUR 343,000. This was in 2015. In 2016, the hospital was funded with 1,444,665 euros from the state budget and 1,145,000 from EEAY, for the first time in its history. In 2017, because they did not all need to be funded cumulatively with around EUR 2 million. Where we started at the beginning of the 1,300,000 euros, it was financed with about 2,100,000 euros from the EEAS and the General Accounting Office of the State and it also has cash assets, because all of this must be added to 2016-2017, which was 1,30,000 euros for the payment of late debts of older years, which practically cleaned the hospital completely from debts. One by one, then, in relation to what we do with Molas Hospital. A corresponding picture at the Sparta Hospital, owned by Molas Hospital. A similar picture with larger amounts, due to the larger budget. From 2015 to 2017 at Molas Hospital, new staff, who have undertaken to date, are three permanent doctors, three subsidiary doctors, five nursing staff, only, staff, two administrative staff, three ancillary staff and five persons since the OAED notice. A total of twenty one people for a hospital, such as the Molas Hospital. The backup is too big. Corresponding to the Hospital of Sparta - I'm not telling the figures in detail - the corresponding aid for the years 2015-2017- minutes since October 2015 - was fifty-six people. A curator from the Second Surgery, a curator from the Second Pathology and a curator from the Second Radiator, has been proclaimed at the Molai Hospital and is in the process of crisis. For the Hospital of Sparta, five permanent doctors have been proclaimed for the LAG and a curator second orthopaedic who are waiting to go. Also, a place of staff for the Molas Prefecture Hospital is expected from the 7K proclamation that finally finished the finals that delayed us and the AACC a year ago. In addition to these twenty one people who are already in possession of prior notices, three ICPs are expected for assistant nurses and two ICPs for patient transporters. The finals are out. Maybe some of them have already taken over. Also for the EKT you say, there were two people when we took over, two ambulance crews. There are at the moment three, because it was moved with the strengthening, the invitation made by a third person to the Molas and, with the final announcement of the forty permanent rescue crew seats, two seats for the EAW sector in Molus. I mean, five plus one driver in the hospital, we're talking about six people who I think will adequately meet the needs of the area. As far as ambulances are concerned, the briefing I have is that it has an older operating condition and one of the ninety ambulances, which we received in 2016, which was transferred from the Tripolis sector after, which was strengthened with the ambulances of the Niarchus Foundation donation. It is a new ambulance, class 2016 - to say it this way - and an older one in a very good operational state, which I think fully meets the needs of the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u57	Any confrontation of arguments or information between the political leadership and a Member of Parliament seems to me to be irrelevant and there is no basis on this issue, especially when it comes to the health sector, which concerns all Greek citizens, regardless of what they vote and which concerns the responsibilities of all governments. Now, you are the government and since you are saying so publicly and in the Minutes, I have to tell you that you are heading in the right direction and I congratulate you. We have no problem saying that. What I would like you to see is the pathologist whose position has been announced, but there is no candidate. The issue of the second pathologist at the Molas hospital is important. We have said this before about another issue, about the Cyparissio Agricultural Health Service before. Incentives must be given, Minister, on the subject of pathologists. The pathological clinics are the most deserved, in terms of incidents, as you best know of me. There is also the constant request, which I describe in my timely question, which is the creation of an EKAV station in Naples. It is the extreme point next to Kavo Malia and has a complex responsibility, such as passing ships, which together with the port authorities and the health centre are taking over the incidents, i.e. shipwrecks and various others. There is also an increase in the number of tourists and not only, so there must be an EKAB station, since it is justifiable that there is an EKAB station in the Naples region. I asked you a question. The one who responded - and bears your signature - speaks of synergies, of co-operation between EAW stations, etc. It will get rid of the Molas region, which is another huge area of responsibility for the Molas Hospital, whose medical and nursing staff are making heroic efforts and embrace all the major incidents that arise. However, it is important that it will ease the burden of Molas and EKAV Molas to create an EKAV station in Naples. I want you to see this. I think that many aspects justify the creation of such a station, as well as the strengthening or with a doctor of service by the Ministry of National Defence or another rural doctor for the Elafonissos Regional Hospital. It's a neighboring area with huge problems. You have received relevant documents and I believe that in what you have said, we must add as facts both as decisions and these two issues, which the region is in great need. I want you to know that I, for so many years, have not been used to holding an unimportant and insignificant opposition. When the Minister responds, as he answers, to the sums that the Samara Government, but - to which I participated - gave in 2015 1,300,000...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u58	He planned to give, and then we gave it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u59	He would've given it. Okay, since there's been a government change, we won't fight about the sums. These amounts relate to the health of the Greek people and people by extension. We are obliged to give more as long as the financial needs allow it. What we need to see is - I repeat - both the creation of an EKAV station in Naples, as well as the opening up of two rescuers to the EKAV of Molas, where the notice has been given, but I hope that they will be quickly appointed. Also, Minister, we should also look at issues relating to the pathology of the Hospital of Sparta, for which we will talk to another question, where the conditions of Sparta Hospital's pathological hospital, which have not taken place for the last three years, of course, but which must finally be taken over by the Greek state. You won't have an information note about that. There are hexaclical chambers, without toilet in and all that compose a tertiary world image. Something has to be done, apart from party and opposition - I would say - krone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Davakis, I will not agree with your assessment of tertiary world at Sparta.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u62	The pathological, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u63	I know that there are also advanced laparascopic interventions in Sparta, which do not take place in several other provincial or county hospitals in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u64	Don't be general. I'm talking about pathological.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u65	Okay. Don't make the hair, hair, into some possible hotel problems that have existed for forty years, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u66	Come see her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u67	Again, 3,361,000 euros in 2015, Samaras had planned to take Sparta Hospital. Instead of 3,300,000 in 2015, he took 3,700,000 of Sparta Hospital. In 2016 he received 4100,000 from the General Accounting Office and 1,145 000 from the EEA and in 2017 he received 2,493,000 euros from the General Accounting Office and 5,600,000 euros from the EEA. Now that's not a third world.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u68	I didn't say that third world. I said about pathological.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u69	To manage the 3,300,000 euros in two years' time to do 8,000,000, only third worlds do not refer to it. One is that. Secondly, for Agios Nikolaos: I have turned your area from land and from sea. I've been by Cavo Malia too, with a big tower. "I saw Christ a phantom" then once or twice, because eleven times I've made the trip down. But listen to something, we cannot plant an EKAB sector in every corner of the country. It is not possible, with the number of incidents, which seem to need to be carried from the region in question per year. I think that a bigger, possibly bigger, servicing of the Molas could solve the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u70	It's an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u71	I know the distance. We can't build all areas to cover the extreme incident. Firstly, we do not have the money, and secondly, it is not efficient, functionally. Because if you have a stay from this region, about a hundred incidents per year, this does not create the need to set up an EAW area in the center of this area.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u72	It's more than just incidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u73	How much is it? I don't know. I do not have the image but I know that the design, which has been made, in the areas of the EAW, requires a number of more than three hundred, four hundred a year from this region, so that you can say that 'yes, I will have an effect on it'. I wish we were able, as a country, to have this possibility everywhere. I think I've answered for the Molaus. I answered Sparta, too. In the meantime, in Kyparisssi, I think we have done this atrociously, and it has also come out with the allowance of EUR 300. Let's talk about this. We have also strengthened many places in Greece, which we have done in this way. And indeed, where there is a need, for example, for the Lighthouse, which you say, if you do not understand the position from the notice or from the invitation, then we ask the Ministry of National Defence if there is an interested doctor who, for the first time, is fully rewarded, plus the allowance if he is in a barren area, plus on-calls, if he is on-calls. If there is a gap from the invitation, beyond the notice that makes an invitation after a second chance to choose some who did not go to rural, I will ask the Ministry of National Defence, as we have done and have placed over sixty with seventy armed doctors in various medical establishments throughout Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Minister. The second question under number 1706/25/2018 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Mr. Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Security fish keeps the Ministry of Finance regarding the procurement of the Public Debt Management Agency (PESH) with the investment bank “ROTHSCHILD””, not discussed, because it is not possible for the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. George Huliarakis to be here. The third, with number 1708/25/2018, is the first question of the Athens MP of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Application of Article 30C of Law 1264/1982 by the Ministry of National Defence", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of National Defence Mr. Kammenos Kammenos on the grounds of the visit of the President of the Republic to the National Business Centre. The third question under number 1712/29-5-2018 is the second question of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr. Haras Kefalidou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Guardment to criminal convictions, in order to appoint or obtain permission to pursue a profession", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr. Stavros Kontonis, who will be in the Council of Justice Ministers in Luxembourg. The fourth under number 1699/24-2018 topical question by the Independent Member of the Achaias Parliamentary, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "What is the State's losses from smuggling cigarettes?" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Ekaterini Papanatsiou. The first question by No. 5225/18-4-2018 asked by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The tax evasion cases that have been filed on the route by IOE to AIAE and the government's responsibility for the loss of revenue", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Ikaterini Papantziou, due to a workload. The ninth under No. 1518-17-2018 topical question from the Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the problems of 4 million borrowers, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to unsuccessful commitments. The question by No. 4017/2-3-2018 question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The requirement of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) for the signing of the 3rd Memorandum of the Supreme Council (Greek Company of Participation and Property SA.')' shall not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou, as a result of irresponsible commitments. The fifth under No. 1588/3-5-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the future of the Greek Defence Industry", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Fotio Kouvelis. The seventh or ninth number 1538/23-2018 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need to increase military service", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Fotius Kouvelis. The eighth under No. 1539/23-2018 topical question for second-cycle Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the participation of military commands in a party course of the KKE", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Fotius Kouvelis. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-04-S1-commons.u75	With the consent of the House at 19.30 the sitting is closed for Tuesday 5 June 2018 at 11.00 p.m., on the subject of the House: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
