ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Thursday 3 May 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1577/30-4-2018 topical question by MP B' Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Xydakis to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: 'Reinstate initial regulation n. 3852/2010.’ 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1567-274-2018 topical question by MP Chios of New Democracy Mr. South Mitarakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: ‘Project and financing of Chios Airport projects’. 3. The 1573-27-2018 topical question by MP Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr Michael Jeleighis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Available quantities of potatoes in the Mountain Communities and Upper Brode Prefectures of Serres". 4. The 1554-24-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior about the building for the accommodation of the Department of National Roads of Paionia. 5. The 1580/30-4-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "needs to safeguard museums and archaeological sites". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1578/30-4-2018 topical question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister of Rural Development and Food about the "upgrading of the Centre for Animal Genetic Resources Carditsa". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1568-27-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: “Anti-nuclear protection of the country ahead of the summer season”. 3. The Question No 1555/25/2018 by the Independent Member of the Messinia, Dimitrios Koukoutsi to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Low-up loans from the Turkish bank of Ziraat to tobacco producers in Thrace". 4. The 1551/24-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEGROGOU to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on "Measures and actions to deal with water shortages - drought". 5. The 1529/19-4-2018 topical question by MP Pella of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ioannis Sahinides to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Continue and remain unfulfilled. 6. The 1531/20-4-2018 topical question by Independent MEP B'Athens Eftathios Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "Criminality and all kinds of attacks by underworld people and galantzi rebels." 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 1149/26-2-2018 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "The unprecedented attack on the A.T. took place from a para-state website. Cesarean’. 8. The 1151/26-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "Questions regarding the case of an agent based on revelations by Panos Kammenos". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: “Help the workers of the “Help at Home” programme. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 4699-26-3-2018 by the Deputy of Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleighis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: “The livestock farming in an emergency”. 3. The question by No 2464/10-1-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARKKKKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKI to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Let the funding for the diversion of the Platform of the River for the enhancement of a Phenomena be immediately advanced". We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Integration into Greek legislation of Directive 2015/2366/EU on payment services and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 26 April to discuss the draft law at a single sitting in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Konstantinos Pavlides, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the first part of this draft, Articles 1 to 110, Directive 2015/2366 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on payment services in the internal market and on various amendments and repealing Directives. It is true that several innovative products or payment services do not fall within the scope of legislation, as it has so far been. In order to address such omissions, therefore, new rules are laid down by this legislation. Therefore, in relation to the existing framework under Law 3862/2010, this Law reforms the field as a whole and introduces significant improvements. In particular, the range of payment services is expanded to take account of services which have so far been regulators. Their inclusion in the new institutional framework strengthens transparency and security in the single market. The scope of the framework shall also be broadened, including payment transactions with third countries, where one of the two providers is located in the European Economic Area. Transparency of transactions is also increased when payment transactions outside the European Economic Area and when payments are made in non-EEA currencies. The payment services excluded so far are also updated, with the aim of ensuring the fullest possible legal clarity, increasing transparency and creating equal conditions of competition in the European Union. Cooperation and exchange of information between the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Economic Area shall be strengthened and enhanced security measures shall be introduced for all payment service providers. Consumer protection is increasing against fraud and other illegal acts with new security measures. Finally, the obligation is laid down for payment service providers to establish complaint procedures and deadlines for their resolution. In the second part of this draft law, in Articles 111 to 140 we have the introduction of a number of provisions and regulations. Article 111 concerns officials from foreign diplomatic and consular missions. The time limit for the customs settlement of their vehicles from three months to one year and for individual exceptional cases up to four years shall be extended. Article 112 provides for harmonisation with the legal framework for the taxation of inheritances, while facilitating any third party with a legitimate interest in translating an act into the mortgage box without having to precede the submission of a statement of property tax. Since there was an entire debate at first and second reading in the Committee on Economic Affairs, it concerns dominant cases among individuals and does not conceal public requirements procedures. Article 113 shall reintroduce a provision in force until 2010 when it has been abolished, concerning the taxation of the inheritance, under expropriation or poured property, which shall not be made at the time of death, but at the time of the completion of the process of expropriation or retreading. Thus, taxpayers will have the possibility of exempting from the tax resulting from the process of anticipating the transfer of immovable property, requesting the direct taxation of the immovable property. In Article 114, with the proposed regulation referred to in paragraph 1, the remuneration in foreign currency paid by the World Association of Disabled Artists to the members of the painters who are tax residents of Greece will be exempted from income tax. Article 115 shall be authorised by the proposed arrangement to the Minister for the Environment and Energy and the Commander of the Independent Public Revenue Authority to determine the terms and conditions for exemption from the excise duty on natural gas used for the production of electricity. Articles 116 and 116(1) add to the first processing undertakings of tobacco and the wholesale undertakings of manufactured tobacco to the categories of undertakings that are significant and integral links to the supply chain of manufactured tobacco and must apply due diligence measures with regard to their customers and suppliers. In addition, this provision introduces an exemption for tobacco growers from the scope of due diligence measures. This concerns mainly small and micro-enterprises. Article 117 concerns the taxable value of vehicles and their categorisation with a view to determining the registration fee. In Article 118, the proposed provision facilitates and extends to all taxpayers the arrangement of debts from 1-1-2017 through the extrajudicial compromise, with a two-year suspension of the obligation to produce the documents, which will provide a great facility and a significant help in the functioning of the extrajudicial mechanism. That provision in Article 119 states that the verification of the correct environmental fee by the plastic bags is to be carried out on a quarterly basis by the AIA, that the performance time of that fee is to be determined, that an authorised provision is to be introduced to the Director of the AIA to determine the type and content of the declaration of the environmental fee and that the plastic transport bags to be included in the Annex to the Code of Tax Procedure is to be included in the Annex to the Code of Conduct in order to impose the penalties already provided for. Article 120, with the proposed arrangement, provides services which are entitled to produce beer for on-site consumption with the possibility of using more than one brewer and the rental of the expected minimum capacity of ten (10) hectolitres in five (5) hectolitres for obvious economic and flexibility of the undertakings concerned. Article 121, with the authorisation of the competent customs office, allows for the transport, drainage and operation of small distillery cotton with a capacity of up to 130 litres, in the context of cultural events carried out by OTA, communities, cultural clubs or other professional bodies, so that the product produced can be made available free of charge to visitors of the events for the purposes of representation and promotion of the traditional method of distillation and promotion of the customs and customs of the Greek countryside. Article 122 extends the period from nine months to three years for the publication of lists of nominees in the Official Journal of the Government to cover regular staff posts in the Independent Public Revenue Authority, without a new notice, from a list of previous invitations to tender to the AACC, provided that the new posts to be covered relate to similar branches and similar specialities. It is an arrangement for the uninterrupted and effective continuation of the work of the Independent Public Exit Authority. In Article 123, in order to provide the fullest support for the ADP Management Board, three staff posts are set up under a fixed-term private law contract, which are covered as defined in the existing provisions, as well as for the special partners of the political offices of the members of the Government and the State Secretarys. In Article 124, the proposed provision of paragraph 1 shall be replaced by the arrangement concerning both the mobility of officials between the ADP and the other services mentioned and any ambiguity that has arisen in the past. The proposed provisions of paragraph 3 of that Article make it clear in order to remove any doubt that the officials transferred from the Ministry of Finance to the AIA and vice versa maintain all their remuneration, including personal dispute and continue to be governed by the same pension and insurance scheme as the principal, subsidiary and welfare. Article 125 provides an extension of one more year for 2018 for the favourable tax treatment of debt write-offs of natural and legal persons to credit institutions with a view to facilitating the provision of debt adjustments. It is a very positive and necessary regulation. Article 126 reduces the number of members of the General Council of the Financial Stability Fund from nine to seven, making it more operational. The necessary adaptations and legislative improvements shall be made to the incompatibilities and impediments of the administrative bodies of the Fund and of the Selection Committee. Articles 127 and 128 concern incorporations of Community directives. Articles 129 and 130 concern specificities of Regulation 1286/2014 of the European Union. Article 134 provides for the possibility of filling the posts of the special scientific staff set up to support the work of the Hellenic Financial Council and transferring or recruiting permanent staff with regard to public law and not only employees with regard to private law of indefinite duration. To this end, it is laid down in the Council's nine SPDs that three of them relate to permanent posts and the other six officials with employment relationships with private law for an indefinite period. Article 136 seeks, with the proposed regulation, to provide for a transitional phase on matters relating to temporary - I stress - a placement of Heads of Responsibility for the Organic Units of the Directorate for Economic Crime Research until the completion of the existing legislation on the selection and placement of Heads of Organic Units, taking into account the extremely substantial work of the existing service. It is therefore a temporary placement with a view to the uninterrupted functioning of the address, given the work of investigating six thousand pending cases. Finally, in accordance with Article 140, the proposed provision regulates the payroll scheme of the Director-General and the Deputy Director-General of the Public Debt Management Agency where those posts are held by civil servants or civil servants in the public sector, as defined in the relevant provisions. Since this article has also been strongly criticised in the Committee on Economic Affairs, this regulation is necessary, inter alia, for reasons of equal treatment, due to the specialized and high qualifications required both to individuals and to public officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Apostolos Vessiropoulos, has the floor for 15 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, during the speech by the rapporteur of the new Republic, the second rapporteur, you can register as speakers in the electronic way you know. Here, Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has discovered how useful it is to incorporate European directives into Greek legislation, such as the one we are discussing today on payment services, because, in the recent past, the anti-European attitude of SYRIZA, but also the sterile refusal that has been shown against every reformist effort, has led him to vote against bills such as this, but also to refuse to ratify agreements on cooperation on tax evasion with the tax authorities of other countries. As rapporteur in many bills, I remember very well what some people said. Of course, after discovering Europe with a delay, the government also discovers the positive dimension of the transposition of European directives aimed at strengthening the country's development effort. Of course, the government's concern is not to get the country out of the ambiguity of overtaxation and permanent poverty. The fear of the government is to allow the lenders to have a record, even by making the wrong eyes. Letter equals a story about this government, except that these fairy tales no longer sell: Outside the Memorandum with measures amounting to EUR 5.1 billion, which have already been voted on and will be implemented since 2019, it does not exist. As there is no exit from the Memorandum with commitments from the country to very high primary surpluses of 3.5% by 2022. Outside the memorandum with the late debts of the citizens to tax have exceeded 100 billion euros and half Greeks to be faced with seizures and electronic auctions of their real estate. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today as regards its first part relates to the adaptation to national legislation of Directive 2015/236/EU on payment services, a directive that has been implemented since the beginning of 2016 and which we should have incorporated into national legislation by 13 January 2018. We are a country that is late and is slowing down a part of the European family with the responsibility of the government, which has been delayed in bringing this bill. As I said in my speech to the committee, the New Democracy will vote in favour of Articles 1 to 110 relating to the transposition of the directive on payment services and their regulatory framework in national legislation. It is assumed that this directive creates the conditions and conditions for increasing competition in the payment market, the inclusion of innovative products and payment services developed in recent years, the facilitation of consumers and businesses, and the strengthening of transparency and security in the internal market. This is an integrated institutional intervention, since to date the regulatory framework for payment services in the internal market was limited only to credit institutions, payment institutions, electronic money issuing institutions and postal cheque offices. This directive and its incorporation into national legislation broaden the framework and include two new categories of payment service providers and two other new payment services, developed through technology and the Internet. I also stressed in my speech to the committee that it is particularly important that this directive prohibits the imposition of surcharges on consumers or businesses, which make use of these services, including those whose interbank commissions are regulated by EU Regulation 2015/751, on interbank commissions for card transactions, i.e. debit, credit and prepaid payment cards, but also credit transfer services and direct debit services, which are best known as fixed orders. They are therefore all aware that the transposition of Directive 2015/236/EU on payment services concerns consumers, guaranteeing their interests and rights, in addition to the development dimension it has in the area of trade in the economy. From there on, ladies and gentlemen, the government, according to its regular practice, has chosen to incorporate into the same bill, namely the second part of the fragmentary and unregulated provisions. I shall refer to some of them: First, Article 112 is supposed to provide for the process of informing the person liable for payment of the property tax, if the transaction is transferred by a third party, which has a legitimate interest. Even so, the differentiation between the person liable for payment of the tax and those submitting the declaration of the transfer tax is not distinct, understandable and clear. There is a risk that irreversible charges may arise if this differentiation is not discernible. We believe that we should go to an overall re-introduction of the legislation on the taxation of immovable property, some of which have been in force since 1950. We need a modern, clear and simplified framework for the taxation of real estate. Secondly, I consider it necessary to refer to Rule 114, despite the fact that we agree with the provision and we will vote in favour of it. The provisions of Article 114 also extend for 2017 the income tax reduction obtained by occasional or occasional employees. We cannot do the same every year in the case of five tax returns, in order not to impose excessive burdens on people, but also unfairly. For us as a New Democracy, a permanent arrangement should be laid down in the Code of Income Tax to end these cases. Thirdly, Article 117 provides for an increase of 30% in the registration fees for three and four-wheel vehicles which do not comply with the anti-pollution standards laid down. Different content is Article 119, which provides for the exercise of control by the tax administration for the correct performance of the fee for plastic bags. Although both articles, 117 and 119, have different content, they actually serve the same outdated philosophy and perception: both connect the development and enhancement of environmental awareness with collective and tax measures. Fourthly, Article 136 provides for the placement of head of the Department of Economic Crime Research. By decision of the Minister of Finance, 4512/2018. The Minister, in order to justify and reverse the gatherings which create a parallel party control mechanism outside the APU, told us that these positions by decision of the Minister alone are of temporary character and until the procedure for directors, directors and divisions has been completed. We consider, in addition to the strictly transitional nature, which these positions must have, that the provisions of paragraph 8 of Article 384 of Law No 4512/2018, which provides that the provisions of Law No.4369/2016 should apply to the selection, place and end of the term of office of the Head of Administration and its parts. The Heads of Administration and the Departments of the Directorate are from the auditors and administrative staff serving at the Directorate. Of course the selection procedure will have to be completed immediately. Fifthly, Article 137 legalises retroactive expenditure which has been incurred without the necessary authority to sign. It should be withdrawn, because all it succeeds is to send a message of rewarding and impunity to the ill-management phenomena. Sixth, I close with a small reference to Article 118 which for two years suspends the obligation to produce supporting documents, a certificate issued by an estimate of collateral guarantees for those subject to the provisions on regulation of Law 4152/2013 and No 4172/2013. From this article, there are no safeguards available in order to function on reasonable occasions and not to be a charismatic arrangement for strategic poor payers who will be found in the unavoidable. Ladies and gentlemen, in her favourite tactics the government has tabled delayed amendments once again. I would like to place myself on them. I shall start with Amendment No 1566, which will cover, from the State budget, all costs incurred or incurred in the future in the liquidation of the public limited company called ‘Group S.A.’. This is a problematic provision, because apart from being privileged in such cases, we are not told how much these costs are and whether there is a limit on them. Is this expenditure incurred before 2010 or after that? So, before he was wound up with the company "GROGE S.A." or later? There is also the risk of a res judicata, since, in this way, the legal or public-law creditors who were liquidated by Law 3895/2010 would require that the public should be treated accordingly. It is clear that with this data we cannot agree to voting on this amendment. With regard to Amendment No 1565 and special number 245, which is granted without consideration by the State to the Ministry of Health for 50 years, 1/3 of an indivisible property for the housing of a primary health structure of the 1st Health Region of Attica, we are positive, but here comes a question: Can the concession in 2017 be made with Article 70(6) of Law No 4484 of 2/3 of the property and one year later it should be established that the remaining 1/3 should be granted? I come to the amendment with a general number of 1567 and a special number of 247, consisting of four articles with purely fiscal issues. Paragraph 1 of Article 1 provides for the exemption from the special solidarity levy on capital gains resulting from the exchange of Greek government bonds, the swaps. I would remind you that they are exempted from income tax. Firstly, there is a question of tax justice from the nature of these exceptions and, secondly, the precise determination of the loss of public revenue, which is not mentioned anywhere. Paragraph 2 of Article 1 provides that the statement of income tax for legal persons and legal entities is to be submitted by the last working day of the sixth month from the end of the tax year, obviously so that there is no problem with the payment of the instalments. We are positive towards this provision. Paragraph 4 of Article 1 extends retroactively up to 31/12-2018 the possibility of paying a single fixed amount of tax when transferring from a burdenful cause of the licence and the vehicle for public use. I believe that this regulation should take the form of fixed regulation and that we should not constantly give extensions of retroactive power. We are dealing with Article 2 of the amendment which abolishes the reference to luxury tax in respect of motor vehicle tax exemptions received by diplomatic or consular missions or by international organisations. We also believe that Article 3 which provides for the possibility of lifting immobilisation and paying traffic charges depending on the length of use of a vehicle, should also qualify for fixed regulation. Article 4 provides for the issue of an ENPI or PAP certificate in accordance with the provisions of the tax procedure, not only in the court proceedings, as already foreseen, but also in the liquidator of the legal person, the executor of a covenant or the liquidator of a legacy. It makes sense to regulate, but with the abolition of any debts of ENVA or PSF, it is not facilitated to divest property, as stated in the explanatory statement. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy operates in terms of responsibility, is set up with arguments, expresses another perception of the functioning of the political system. This function is reflected in its parliamentary behaviour and activity. Comparisons with the parliamentary behaviour of the two parties in the conflict when they were in opposition cannot be made, because the New Democracy's responsibility for populism and the irresponsibility of some cannot be compared. It is given our positive vote in the provisions for transposition into national legislation of Directive 2015/236/EU on payment services. From there on, we raised specific issues arising from the provisions contained in the second part of the bill. I hope and hope that the government will act syntheticly and responsibly on the issues that we have raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give the floor to Mr Kokkalis and Mrs Papanatsiou to present their amendments so that you can then have a picture and make your position. Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. With Amendment No 1566, a specific 246 is intended to deal with two issues. One concerns the public limited company in liquidation, the ‘Group S.A.’. This limited company was wound up in 2010 by Law 3895. Eight years have passed and the liquidation process has not been completed, because actions are pending against the company, either invoking or recognizing it. Under this paragraph, all costs of liquidation will be covered by the regular budget of the Ministry of Rural Development. By this arrangement, it is expected to avoid a reduction in public property due to a non-auction of a particular property. The second regulation in the same amendment seeks to deal with the use of agricultural property throughout Greece. As you well know, by law of 2012, and in particular Article 36(13) of Law 4061, the professional farmers and the unemployed were given the opportunity to exploit rural areas throughout Greece, Elos, Carla. The proposed regulation once again extends until 30 October 2018 to those who already cultivate it, so that they can make the OPE declarations to OPEKEPE. I think it is the last extension, because there is already a committee to examine who is entitled and who can cultivate these areas. For these reasons, we are calling for the two regulations to be voted on, which are in this amendment with a general number of 1566 and a specific number of 246. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Minister. Ms. Papanaceu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I accept the parliamentary amendment with a general number of 1556 and a special number of 242. It is about the regional market of Kouloura Imathia, which intends to give the public some space for the operation of a customs office. Also, as regards the amendment by the Ministry of Finance of a general number of 1565 and a specialist of 245, which concerns the 1/3 to be allocated to the Ministry of Health for the old General Hospital of Constantoulios - Patisias, and also to Mr Vessiropoulos because 1/3 now and 2/3 before, I will say that after the abolition of the two funds available, the Clients Fund and the Welfare Fund of Orthodox Newspaper of Greece, 2/3 were in the public sector and 1/3 was in the public sector. With the previous concession, the two-thirds concession and 1/3, which was in the Public Service Welfare Fund, was granted at the moment to complete the concession to the Ministry of Health. As regards the amendment with a general number of 1567 and a special number of 247, we have in the first part the exemption from the special solidarity levy on capital gains resulting from the exchange of Greek government bonds under the Greek State's liability management programme. I would like to point out here that they are already exempted from income tax. Under the second provision, the working day for the deadline for the submission of tax declarations by legal persons is not 30 June, but the last day of June. This does not affect the time when the doses of the persons concerned are paid and the prescribed number of six instalments is thus maintained. With this amendment we avoid coming and giving extensions every time or reducing the time. The other provision is further extended until 31 December 2018 to the payment of the fixed amounts of tax on the transfer from a burden, including the exchange of passenger cars, tour buses and public buses. This is considered necessary. Entities have been asked to simplify tax procedures and to allow for a smooth transition from the existing regime to taxation under the new Income Tax Code. There is still no regulatory framework for the new framework, so that it is all pending, and that is what we need to proceed by 31 December 2018 to the extension. The next device is a standard device. It is about the abolition of the luxury tax. The reference to luxury excise duty is already deleted and replaced by the words ‘by duty and grading fee’. This tax has already been abolished under the provisions of Law No.4389/2016. It should simply be codified here and updated with this provision. In the last order, we have the traffic charges by month. It's a provision that the Ministry of Finance makes every year. We also give the possibility to those who have forced immobilisation for reasons of force majeure, if the reason for the immobilisation is withdrawn, in 2018 to pay the traffic charges proportionately for the rest of the months by the end of the year and not the total of the annual traffic charges. The amendment of Article 54A of Law 4174/2013 on the clearers’ certificate, to the court for bankruptcy for immovable property in a covenant executor, to legacy clearers and liquidators in liquidation of legal persons, gives the option to receive an ENVY certificate by way of a dividing proportion of the tax before divestment, without requiring the settlement of any remaining debts of HVY the Property Tax. There is, of course, still the possibility of repayment of the property tax due by way of withholding the price of the transfer and reimbursement within three days of the contract being drawn up by the notifier. I'm going to mention something that's coming with a legislative improvement. I shall mention it now so that the other rapporteurs will not be placed on the table. We will withdraw Article 133 of the bill, because in the course of the course we will have a bill that will come to regulate all the specific issues and we have considered it appropriate not to come at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", twenty-seven students and students and two teachers attending from the 21st High Athens. Welcome to the Greek Parliament, guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Giannis Koutsoukos has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u11	Good morning. Good month. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to inform the House, before going to the issues of the bill, that during the debate of this bill in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs I raised twice the question relating to the request by Members of the Democratic Assent, Kutsukou, Lovertos, Maniati, Scandalides and Defence Georges from Potami to the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs to discuss the draft Government for Holistic Development, which we have been informed has been submitted to the European Commission's institutions under the English title 'Growth strategy for the Future of Greece'. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a time when the issues of the so-called clear exit are dominated by the government on the agenda. Of course, this is neither a pure matter nor a matter of exit, as the country is bound by the decisions of the Government of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. Tsipras and Kammenos with primary surpluses for the next 3.5% years, i.e. EUR 6-7 billion annually, coming out of taxpayers' pockets. It is bound by burdensome measures, such as the reduction of pensions from 1-1-2019 and the reduction of tax from 2020 with primary until 2060 et seq. And the government claims that with this holistic development plan, it negotiates the arrangements for debt sustainability. We said, then, from 17-4-2018 formally, with our document, that this plan should be discussed here in the Greek Parliament, and that we see what it contains, what it may be, and that we should present our views on the future course of the country as responsible parties. Voice voice in the wilderness. The President of the committee, Mr Balauras, replied that he would be discussed as soon as Mr Tsakalotos arrived from the United States. Mr Tsakalotos is here, and the ministers are coming to the Eurogroup, wherever they meet, and the House is not informed. I am sorry to note that I did not see the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group being placed on the table either - I imagine it is interesting for the majority Members to know what their Government is doing, unless any informal information was received from these non-documents that issue Maximus and were convinced that everything is going well - but I did not see the New Democracy Parliamentary Group put forward and I am sorry about that. In other words, the two parties of power, those who are in power today and those who claim to govern, for the major issues, are exchanging charges through the mass media about who chains the country and who will take more burdensome measures, but a request which is too serious to discuss here in the Greek Parliament, with the proposal that we have tabled, does not support it. Because if they supported it with their signatures, the debate would have been compulsory - I would inform you - ladies and gentlemen, since the signatures of our own are not what the Rules of Procedure impose for compulsory debate. So today we will be waiting for a response from the government, from Mrs Papanatsiou, who is a member of the Ministry of Finance. Mr Tsakalotos may travel from Europe to America and so may Mr Juliarakis also, but the government has'serious officials' who could come to the House to present this plan. I now come to the issues of the draft signed ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2015/2366/EU on payment services and other provisions’. I would say that the title of the bill should be 'Integration of this directive and a little ruffle'. The phrase "a short of ruffel" will then explain it when I come to the articles of the bill concerning the provisions of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the second part of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2010, our country has incorporated the European Union's payment services directive, the means, terms, conditions and so on. So the directive, which we are now incorporating into national law, replaces the earlier directive and repeals the provisions of Law 3862 which incorporated it, as it was decided by the European Union and its services that technological developments, with the new payment services, required an update of this framework. Therefore, in Articles 1 to 109, which incorporate this Directive, the rules on transparency and information requirements regarding payment services are laid down and the rights and obligations of payment service users and payment service providers are laid down as regards the provision of payment services as regular employment or business activity. Payment services shall be considered, first of all, to be services enabling cash placements and withdrawals in a payment account, as well as all activities necessary for the maintenance of a payment account or for the execution of payment transactions, including the transfer of funds to a payment account held to the user's payment service provider or to another payment service provider, the execution of payment transactions where the funds are covered by a credit limit for the use of payment services and other less widespread transactions. The provisions of the draft law lay down, on a case-by-case basis, payment transactions relating first, in a currency of a Member State to providers within the European Economic Area, secondly, in a currency which is not a currency of a State, but payer and payee payment providers are located within the European Economic Area in respect of the parties to the payment transaction and thirdly, all currencies only where one of the payment service providers is within the European Economic Area. In order for the world to understand, because these terminologies used by the European Union and with which we are making an automatic translation to incorporate them into national law, from the simple world, are not understood, I would say that a dictionary on the eve of this infamous terminology, the subjects, the entities and so on must be published. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about provisions relating to credit institutions in our country, the Deposit and Loans Fund, the electronic money institutions based in Greece - they are about nine - and dozens of other payment institutions smaller that disclose the intentions of providing services to Greece and provide payment services to other Member States - Member States, the ELTAs for the transaction process when they operate as postal cheque offices and certain public and bank services in Greece when they do not function as national authorities. Generally, the provisions of this Payments Legislation include the terms and conditions for authorisation of payment service providers, the internal audit mechanisms and the institutional tools of the Bank of Greece, which remains a supervisory authority for the authorisation and supervision of payment institutions and the General Secretariat of Trade, which remains a consumer protection authority and continues to monitor compliance with the provisions on transparency of terms and requirements for information. In addition, provisions on the imposition of penalties and measures on the transparency of terms and information requirements governing payment services, rights and obligations relating to the provision of services are laid down. Ladies and gentlemen, this one hundred and ten articles incorporating the directive, as we have said, is arranged in six titles and I would say that each article is the correlation between the corresponding article of the European directive. In Title I, which relates to Chapters 1 to 4, it has the arrangements for the purpose, purpose and scope and definitions. In Title II, concerning Articles 5 to 37, it shall specify who is understood as payment service providers. In Title III, which shall have as its content the transparency of the terms and information requirements governing payment services from Articles 38 to 60, all relevant information shall be taken into account. In Title IV, entitled ‘Laws and obligations relating to the provision and use of payment services’, Articles 61 to 101 have all the conditions relating to the procedure of rights and obligations. In Title V, which relates to Article 102, it is obliged to inform consumers of their rights. In Title VI, Articles 103 to 110 shall refer to the final and transitional provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude with the issues of the directive and the articles incorporating it, I would say that the Greek Parliament and the committee did not have a debate in depth. And I can say this in view of the position of the representatives of the Bank of Greece, who were called after my instigation, with a few minutes' intervention, and the fact that only yesterday, namely on the day of the commemoration of the working class, we also received the memorandum from the Association of Greek Banks, which is placed in two very serious articles of the bill and says that these are inapplicable. And the question is: The government with the institutional representatives of the market, the banks and so on. Doesn't he have a dialogue? And if he hadn't had a chance to have any dialogue, because he had to save well within these deadlines to integrate the directive. Could they not be invited to the committee to give light to us to possibly correct the articles that the Association of Greek Banks says are inapplicable and about the rights and obligations of small businesses which, according to the Association of Greek Banks, as the provisions are formulated, will create unequal conditions of competition for these companies? I would say that the government must give us an answer on this. I will conclude by saying that in order to see the issues that have to do with the protection of consumers against overcompensation for those responsible for accepting payment orders and handling them, the complaints that exist, the way the whole system works, we must insist that the banking intermediary operate effectively and that, ladies and gentlemen, the observatory of bank charges, because we have too many complaints of charges that are excessive since the consumer is forced to pay its obligations through plastic money. I now come to the remaining provisions of the second part, which I said was a little rousphetti. Why? Because the government has a bad habit - which it will not leave us until it leaves us time - which, in every such institutional process, in a serious debate on the integration of a piece of legislation, will also suit some of its friends. I, as long as time takes me, will make a reference to the articles and I will say in my denology a few others. But I wanted to note two articles of the much that the Treasury has introduced. It is Article 123 for the AIA which, as I have said in committee, does not need neither the board of directors of the Independent Public Income Authority nor the commander to hire three posters. He has ten thousand employees in the Ministry of Finance with degrees, with postgraduate, foreign languages and so on. And the government tells you, they want a man of confidence. Who? Those who are pushing the government and in every bill are supposed to bring provisions for the decommissioning of the administration and put them in the memoirs, he tells you he wants people of confidence. So they have the logic of party control. How can we explain it otherwise? By nailing the lion sometimes, but we have to give an explanation. And the other provision is Article 136 on the appointments by decision of the Governor - I imagine in cooperation with the Minister - Heads of Service, the Directorate for Economic Crime Affairs, where the Government only recently in the process of forming this body, in particular Article 136, told us that these heads of state will be placed in a worthwhile position. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And we, of course, denounced all this method of getting cases from the ILO that you're pulling them off to the ADP to take them back, take the cases that had a court order to return them to the judges. And we said that this is where you hide intimacy and that you're building a corpse to which you're gonna put everyone you want. And they told us no, it's gonna be punctual, we're gonna have supervising precincts, etc. And the government is coming today and is doing such a thing. There are too many issues that one might say in the articles. I tried to put it out to the committee. Answers we haven't received. We will therefore vote on what we consider to be moving towards a reasonable settlement of a number of issues on which a government must deal. We shall not vote on the rest of the amendments to this effect. I would also like to say a word about the amendments. We have not, ladies and gentlemen, been able to study them in depth, because we are keeping the custom of holidays at the Labour Day. In the course of the debate and in the light of what the Ministers have told us, we will see them and be placed accordingly in our dentistry. However, because we are also being heard by the farmers, I would like to say to Mr Kokalis - he has left - that this arrangement for extending the concession of agricultural parcels, I have brought it here in Parliament at least three times, because the government is unable to implement a policy of land and give farmers the agricultural parcels. In other words, we have in Elia the dried lakes of Agulinitsa and Muria, and now comes to only five, which ends in the IACC declarations, to give them an extension. The government is right to extend and extend - it is something we have been calling for - but it is unable to operate institutionally and implement a law that has criteria and conditions, which has proved to be in place for three years now. Thank you, Mr President, and the slightest tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the Educational Programme "The Workshop of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of Parliament, thirteen students and students and an educational attendant from the 8th Petroupoli Municipal School. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Evangelos Karakostas, special speaker of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Today's bill is composed of two parts. Part One concerns the transposition into national law of Directive 2015/2366/EU, which reregulations the regime governing payment services in the European market. Although the purpose of the first part, according to a statement by the representatives of the banking system in Greece, is to regulate the market and modernise interbank electronic systems, the legislative priorities of a serious national government must be quite different, with the sole aim of boosting the real economy in our country and not of serving the profitability of financial institutions. That Directive repeals the last Directive 2007/64 of the European Parliament and is therefore repealed and replaced by the legal framework established by Law 3862/2010. The main features of the bill are: firstly, the introduction of stricter supervision and authorisation conditions for institutions for the provision of payment services, secondly, the strengthening of security measures by collecting personal data and, thirdly, arrangements on legal relations between the consumer and institutions. It is clear to everyone that the technological development and transition of society to the era of automation and digitisation of all aspects of everyday life are undoubtedly an important part of the pie of the system of governance. The essential result, however, as this is shaped by the interpretation of the existing Treaties, in combination with the undeniable and intended reduction in the essential freedoms of national states, is the obvious depreciation of the national factor. In Part One, the draft law contains the provisions of the directive in the first 100 articles. The first general conclusion is that the European Central Bank strengthens its sovereignty in the European banking system, maintaining its institutional powers and imposing a stricter institutional framework in terms of payment services. In this bill, we note, of course, that one of the main obligations of the Bank of Greece is to collect and register information of all kind, from the personal data of users of services and consumers to send reports on the supervision of payment services. The Bank of Greece therefore operates as the domestic subordinate institution serving the anticipated bureaucratic requirements of the European Central Bank. The draft law, in the first four articles, contains the basic principles, purpose, scope and exceptions. Subsequently, it enters in substance with wording of the conditions for the establishment and operation of the payment institutions. The usefulness of this law is supposed to be the definition and regulation of ways of electronic payment within the internet. We all know that much of the transactions are now on the Internet and it is clear that in a few years now plastic money will be the only way to deal with natural and legal persons. However, this modernisation, as the European legislators want to falsify us, does not mean that society and the average citizen will benefit, improving their standard of living. The one who is essentially benefiting and gaining from all this process is the financial institutions, as well as the payment institutions that will be recommended to serve the proposed regulatory framework and which will be rich from the supplies by which they will charge consumers - users. A concise approach to the reasoning of this directive is that citizens will be able to make financial transactions through the procedures proposed by the so-called payment institutions. Such transactions shall be between persons residing within the limits of the so-called European Economic Area or outside, with the relevant variations in terms of trade and in the manner in which the transaction takes place. It may be contained in the draft legislation, which is presented as citizens-friendly, but the whole issue of the bill is found by technocratic formulas that are of little importance to improve the already low standard of living of Greek citizens. Today's bill is a purely technocratic bill with clear trends in centralisation and a sharing of responsibilities in the institutions and financial institutions involved. The so-called modernisation results from facilitating certain transactions, such as in transactions with third countries, when one of the parties is in a European economic area and from extending the range of payment services. Of course, there could be no missing provisions on the file of service users and the registration of their personal data in the databases of the electronic central register of the European banking authority. The Bank of Greece assumes precisely this role and is obliged to collect the information and information which will then be transmitted to the central bank. This bill essentially contains the provisions to which both payers and payees who are payment service users and payment service providers will obey. It is important for us to ensure the rights of natural and legal persons who use payment services. The state's main priority is the protection and safeguarding of the weakest consumer - user of services, which, of course, is not the case. Also worthy of reference is the issue of profitability of payment services and the burden on users. In essence, it turns out that users of the services will be dealing with financial intermediaries, who are intermediaries only subsidiaries of large financial institutions. The second part, Articles 111 to 140 of the draft law, contains provisions which either promote the Memorandum of Understandings and Cheques signed by the Government of Tsipras - Kammenos or seek to strengthen the SYRIZA Party within the State Mechanism. That is why you have brought in specific regulations incorporated into an unrelated piece of legislation in the government's laudable tactics and, of course, with the necessary addition of several ministerial amendments up to the last minute, as was the case here. In particular, Article 111 provides for the extension of the temporary importation of means of transport primarily using diplomatic and consular officials of foreign diplomatic missions. The extension will be granted at the request of the beneficiary and will last for up to one year and up to four in exceptional cases. The most outrageous article in it is that the same regime will apply regardless of whether or not the applicants remain in the country. Article 112 now allows any third party having a legitimate interest to transfer a property without having to submit a declaration of a real estate tax, in order - as described in the explanatory memorandum - to ensure the rights of both citizens and the public. It is obvious that this provision is directly connected and sets the ground in the pile of electronic real estate auctions and that is why the Golden Dawn vote against it. Article 115 exempts the application of excise duty on natural gas used for the production of electricity. This exemption would obviously move in the right direction if the Greek State had produced the electricity, but with PPC's permanent sale or with the accuracy of its parts to private individuals, rather the provision to be voted on is intended to serve not in the public interest, but the new private owners of PPC's former property. Furthermore, as we have pointed out in the debate in the relevant Commission, there is no mention of whether this arrangement will bring any benefit to consumers in terms of the final price of electricity. The Golden Dawn therefore also votes against Article 115. Article 123, which is the definition of rhysphetological regulation, provides for new organic posts and new recruitments to be set up in an organisation, such as the Independent Public Revenue Authority, which already has a large number of qualified personnel who could well meet the existing needs without requiring new recruitment. For the government, however, it is important, as it appears, to create a party army within the state mechanism even if this entails the unnecessarily burden on the public funds. Another classic case of photographic and at the same time uncovered rhyspheological provision, which will cause an annual burden of up to EUR 150,000 in the state budget, is Article 134 by which the three of the nine posts of specialist scientific staff of the Greek Financial Council are permanently permanent and the setting up of new staff. We are against Article 135 without question and any regulation concerning the Soviet Union - badly called ERT - since the state channel, which all taxpayers pay through PPC's accounts, is unconstitutionally excluded from the third party of the country, as it emerged from the last national elections in September 2015, and has some form of transforming into a party of the communist governance of SYRIZA - ANEL. It is worth mentioning that Article 140 by which the government doubles the salaries of a category of high-wage civil servants, who are the managers of the Public Debt Management Agency, thereby charging around EUR 100,000 per annum to the public funds. To conclude, today's bill to be passed has nothing to offer to alleviate the policy of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL people and therefore the People's Association - Golden Dawn is voting against it at first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Athanasios Vardalis, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the directive of the European Union, which is incorporated into Greek legislation with the first part of the bill, which concerns the purchase of payments, a market which is indeed growing, where electronic payments are growing rapidly, with significant technological innovations, what it does through the modernisation of the legislation is to ensure that competition is developed in this market as well. It is actually an adaptation to the new data, but the objective remains the same and it is no more than capitalist growth by strengthening competition and the specific payment market. This finding is not just ours. The explanatory statement itself on page 2 argues that the adoption of the new provisions will lead to increased competition in the payment market. In addition, in conjunction with Directive 2014/92, which, last March, you voted together on the comparability of fees linked to payment accounts and access to payment accounts, not only ensures a level playing field which calls for capital, but also encourages the entry of payment service providers into the internal market with a view to - in introductory terms - to 'equal distribution of funds within the retail financial services market'. It is what you have been supporting in the explanatory statement to this directive at the time. In other words, with the emergence of new areas of business based on the Internet, they are being used as a field of placement of overcompensated funds in order for the system to overcome its financial crisis. All of this is recorded in the objectives of the Digital Agenda which is one of the seven pillars of the Europe 2020 Strategy, which sets out the development objectives of the European Union by 2020. Therefore, in the context of modernising legislation, it seeks to strengthen the competitiveness of the banks of licensed providers, electronic money institutions, because this issue is a foundation for the creation of the European Union itself, but also for the operation of the European Union itself. That is why it was established to defend the interests of big capital. The allegations made by the other parties, which support this action by the European Union and, of course, agree with this directive on safeguarding and protecting users from various fraud, nothing has to do with reality. Not only are the interests of consumers, users, rather the problem of the people's layers not protected is precisely in this development of competition that this directive seeks to achieve. The growth of competition increases their profits, profits coming out of the backs of the populace. Competition between undertakings means, before all, that some will go forward, some will stay behind and others will be left behind. They can't compete with each other and everyone's on the front line and win. What does the experience of thousands of workers and people now say? Hundreds of thousands of businesses have shut down, have put a lock on precisely because of this competitiveness. Others who did not close because they wanted to - in introductory words - 'fight','saving', were transferred to countries with less labour costs, just to become more competitive. Others have neither been closed nor transported, merged or absorbed by other larger ones. Workers in all these cases have been made redundant, unemployment has increased, and those who currently manage and find a job are faced with policies and laws that bring employment relations with their heads down and down. So why should workers support this competition between business groups? Business competitiveness is by definition hostile to the people, to the workers, because, in order to achieve business competitiveness and increase their profits, it is essential to make the most of the labour force, to deforestation even of the most basic labour rights and, ultimately, to impoverish the people's strata. By shielding the competition and competitiveness of banks and electronic money institutions, which are active in this market, what the European Commission wants to protect is the profits of these groups, even more to contribute to concentration and concentration, and in no case is the protection of users, the protection of consumers. Those who support this action of capital tell us that competitiveness is necessary to achieve profits and gains are necessary to achieve growth, which this growth will bring satisfying people's needs, when life has revealed that, not only during the period of crisis this way of organising the economy, but also in the period of capitalist development, the life of workers and people's strata is getting worse every day. It has even been shown that satisfying the modern, present popular needs, not only is it not synonymous with profits, rather than abolishing them, is a precondition for popular prosperity. The second objective of the European Union is this. Through the consolidation of the legislation in the payment market it is preparation for the promotion of banking integration, namely the common supervision of the financial system as a whole. What does this directive do to shield competition in the payment market? First of all, it extends the range of payment services to include other services, such as, for example, the start of the payment transaction that has so far been unregulated. In this way, by extending the payment services now covered by the legislation, it creates a level playing field for business groups - providers, thus contributing to - in introductory terms - to 'aid' healthy competition throughout the European economic area. It broadens the scope of the framework, including payment transactions with third countries, when one of the two providers is located in the European Economic Area. It clarifies and updates exempted payment services, so that legal rigour does not exist, as it says, in order to create a level playing field in the European Union. As she herself appreciates, to date, there have been different approaches and possible distortions in competition. It shall strengthen cooperation and exchange of information between the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Economic Area. Furthermore, to shield competition, it introduces enhanced security measures for all, but all payment service providers. How does it contribute to concentration and concentration in this area too, in the area of payment services? What does it do to concentrate on a few hands and thus shield the competitiveness of its own businesses? Firstly, it introduces stricter conditions and conditions for the authorisation of payment institutions. The same is true of the conditions for revocation of this licence. Therefore, fewer will be able to act on this market and help takeovers and mergers of providers and electronic money institutions. Secondly, through a number of other roads, for example the free establishment of such enterprises in another European economic area, by providing cross-border payment services. Thirdly, it establishes arrangements for the protection of professional secrecy, the exchange of information, between the supervisory authorities of the Member States, the capital adequacy of enterprises and others. As far as the protection of users is concerned, I believe that mocking is clearly seen in Article 99. This article states: ‘Personal payment service providers shall establish and implement appropriate and effective procedures for the settlement of complaints by payment service users regarding the rights and obligations arising from these provisions’. Watch out, establish themselves and apply who? Banks and providers. Below, in the second paragraph, it states: ‘Personal payment service providers shall make every effort to respond’. Where? In complaints of payment service users. In other words, everything depends on the good mood and effort of providers to inform and reply to users' complaints. That's the protection we're talking about. That's what this is about. It is argued that this directive creates opportunities for transparency that our country needs to use to put an end to the arrogant and abusive charges of banks. Yes, sir! Charges don't bother you, abusives are the problem. The profits of bank and payment service providers don't bother you. Besides, this is sacred. To sum up, I would say: the JRC monitors developments, rapid development of the Internet, their impact on economic activity and productivity growth, the need to develop them that eventually gave birth to the Internet itself. The technical capabilities of the internet, indeed, allow the accounting transfer of credits by pressing a button, but this is based on the existence of monopolistic banking groups. It is based on capital extraction throughout the world, namely the free movement of capital and the sharing of the entire world, in short, the emergence of the last - what we call imperialist - stage of this capitalist system. Particularly characteristic is the use of the Internet in the financial sector, both in international and domestic capital transfers, which have been considerably simplified and their costs have been reduced accordingly. It is, however, a conditional development with the directions in which capitalist profitability is needed. Let us look at one example, in order to understand this approach through an issue that has been put to the debate by some other party rapporteurs in the committee. They argued that by developing electronic payments, plastic money in general, tax evasion would be fought. What tax evasion will be fought? The big chapter leaves it intact. You support and vote for laws where this legally escapes. Of course, all this - let me say, in introductory words - 'true' for plastic money, for electronic transactions, makes it possible to record the transactions of the self-employed and it aims precisely there: the drastic reduction of the possibilities for tax evasion still available to these layers. This case, that is to say, the fight against tax evasion, which you refer to, is not about big capital. It aims precisely at small tax evasion of self-employed workers, leaving the framework of operation, action and movement of large capital intact. This will help to eliminate them faster through and through the development of competition with large businesses, which, of course, are tax-free in a thousand ways through the tax exemptions you introduce. Thus, the use of Internet innovation, for us, is not a neutral issue, it has a class mark. Two words now about the second part of the bill. First of all, we agree with certain provisions and we will vote on them. These concern, for example, the discharge of the remuneration paid by the World Association of Disabled Artists to its members, as well as the second paragraph concerning those who have occasional incomes, but also the provision allowing recruitment to the ADP - I am referring to Article 122 of tables of the same qualifications as other ADP notices, or the provision concerning transfers - secondments to and from the ADP and the Ministry of Finance and which are guaranteed and maintained by wage and social - insurance rights. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For a minute, Mr President, your tolerance. We shall vote'representations' in some provisions, such as, for example, the one concerning the supply chain of manufactured tobacco. I should like to point out here that we are talking about the action of capital for profit. And here the expectation of gain, when big, capital becomes ruthless. It is not going to abolish smuggling of tobacco products, as elsewhere, because illegal profits are too great. That is why, in our view, we need to reduce the tax-paying burden. The issue of smuggling is political and not technical. We disagree and will vote against a number of articles, such as Article 115, because that is not a question of defining the terms, but of exempting from the excise duty on gas used for the production of electricity. We will vote against the article on the number of existing in enterprises that are entitled to produce beer for on-site consumption, such as restaurants, bars, entertainment centres, etc., breweries up to their minimum capacity. This issue concerns very few, mainly large fires and focus businessmen who will take advantage of politics, strengthening the profitability of those who can stand up to competition in the focus sector. We will vote against Rule 123, which states that the recruitment of personnel used as secretarial support for the ADP Management Board is being carried out. We will also vote against Articles 126 to 132, concerning arrangements for the Financial Stability Fund, arrangements for the recovery of unlawful State aid, etc. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, Special Buyer of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. The Independent Greeks, as we have said in committee, will support - and we support - the whole of this bill and the articles for the reasons that we have explained. Of course I will also read my report. We also find the amendments extremely positive, as they have been presented by the Minister and by Mr Kokkalis on the issues of the relevant ministries. This payment directive must at some point bring transparency to Greece, but also to combat tax evasion at all levels. Because especially in these forms of payment, there are too many ways of avoiding taxation, even if any supervisory authority can impose - or try to impose - laws on transactions. This is a matter of special attention. This draft law and the incorporation of Directive 2015/2366 of the European Union also extends, for the tax year 2017, the existing rules, according to which, for incomes acquired by occasional or opportune employees, in so far as they do not engage in a business or individual agricultural activity, the single scale of employees, retired business people, calculated on the basis of the amount of the reduction in the tax of EUR 1,900 to EUR 2.100, is applied where their actual income does not exceed EUR 6,000 and their imputed income does not exceed EUR 9,500. The provisions of the standing debt arrangements under Law No 4152/2013 and the Tax Procedure Code, No 4174/2013, concerning the obligation to provide supporting documents, the certification of an assessor, guarantees, security agents referred to in Article 118 are suspended for a period of two years. It is clarified that the verification of the correct performance of the environmental fee for plastic transport bags is carried out exclusively by the tax administration and that the time limit for the declaration of reimbursement of that fee in Article 119 is fixed. At this point, I have to make the point that we must have absolute control over where the money is going. Because they will gather, as far as I know and learn, hundreds of millions of euros in some accounts. We need to look at the management and purpose and how to manage this money and the competent authorities and committees. The scope of the arrangements under Article 62 of L.4389/2016 is extended, according to which the benefit acquired by legal or natural persons from the deletion of part or all of the debt to credit or financial institutions is not considered to be income and is exempt from income tax. It also extends to debts under Law 4469/2017 on the non-judicial mechanism for the regulation of corporate debts under Article 125. It is laid down that, with the exception of the rule and the duration of the extension of the temporary importation of means of transport up to a maximum of three months for the transport of diplomatic and consular officials of foreign diplomatic missions, the period of stay provided for may be extended, at the request of the beneficiary by the competent customs authority for a period of one year and in exceptional circumstances, invoked by the beneficiary and supported by evidence, up to four years. A provision is added to Law 1587/1950 concerning the tax on the transfer of immovable property, according to which, if the transfer is effected as a result of action by a third party having a legitimate interest, with the interest of the mortgage guard, the Head of the competent IORP shall be informed, who shall inform the taxable person and the declaration in question. I would like to say at this point that we are going to the third month, I think, because I am passionate and therefore. We have mortgage strikes in many mortgages in the country and there is no transfer. I think the Ministry should see this because there is quite a lot of public income lost when there is no transfer. Reinstate provisions of the Code of Heritage Taxation, Donations, Parents, Procurement and Profit from Gambling, on the transfer of the time of the birth of the tax obligation. The proposed arrangement under Article 114 extends the existing similar arrangement for the years 2014, 2015 and 2016 and for the tax year 2017, according to which, for income acquired by the occasional or opportune employed unemployed, householders, students, participants in work experience programmes and where they are not professionals, i.e. they have not started work, the single scale of wage-earners, retired business workers applies for tax reasons, taking into account the amount of the reduction in the tax of EUR 1,900 to 2,000. I've said it more than that. The imputed income should not exceed EUR 9,500. Exempted from income tax and fees paid by the World Association of Disabled Artists. That's what had to happen. The provisions of Law 2960/2001, the National Customs Code, are being amended and supplemented - in principle -. The Customs Code needs modernization for good reasons. Firstly, a joint decision by the Minister for the Environment and Energy and the Governor of the Independent Public Revenue Authority is foreseen to determine the terms, conditions, the required controls and any other necessary details and the exemption from the Special Tax on the Consumption of Natural Gas used exclusively for the production of electricity. Secondly, tobacco processing companies and wholesalers are added to the undertakings which are obliged to apply due diligence measures to their customers and suppliers. Tobacco growers are completely excluded from the application of these measures. The taxable value for the calculation of the registration fee for vehicles under customs supervision of domestic production, now formed in accordance with the provisions of Law 2960/2001 of the National Customs Code, for each category of vehicle, i.e. passenger and freight cars with a gross weight of up to 3,5 tonnes. In the case of vehicles of domestic production outside customs supervision, the taxable value of which is now formed in accordance with the provisions of the National Customs Code, is to be determined only when the taxable value is not determined on the basis of the retail selling price. It is planned to pay a paradox for the examination of passenger cars. The coefficients of the grading fee for three and four-wheel vehicles, which do not comply with the prescribed write-offs, shall be increased by 30%. The conditions regarding the number and minimum capacity of brewers to be provided by undertakings - restaurants, bars, etc. are amended. - producing beer for on-site consumption. It's a huge issue. If we sit down and analyze it now, we'll have three hours. There were some time ago, three years ago, the operators and I had asked the customs authorities whether they can control the brewery, small or large, and whether the remaining amount in the tanks can be measured. It cannot be measured, because the tanks have several shapes and there is no laser mechanism, infrared technologies or something to measure the quantities stored. I refer to the period when we were talking about excise duty on wines and so on. I asked them: 'How is the check done if the remainder cannot be measured in the tank and the tank measured?' I didn't get an answer. They don't count because, yes, there are technical features that make your tumor, engineers know the specifications of the tank very well, but they change in time. In practice, the controller has no way to measure and see how much he's inside the tank in relation to how much he was sold and bottled. I did a little parentheses, because it is one of the issues we need to see at some point about the normality of this country. Subject to a special authorisation from the customs office, the transfer, opening and operation of a small distiller ammonia for the period specified, in the context of the OTA, communities, cultural clubs or other professional bodies shall be permitted. That's right. APPLICATION OF THE APPLICATION OF THE APPLICATION OF THE APPLICABLE TO THE APPLICATION OF THE APPLICABLE TO THE APPLICATION OF THE APPLICATION OF THE APPLICABLE TO THE APPLICATION OF THE APPLICATION OF THE Other Members have spoken in this regard. I think it is appropriate to do so, for good reasons. In addition, paragraph 7 of Article 25 of L.4389/2016 on the two-way mobility of officials between the ADP and the other services mentioned. It is clarified that officials transferred or transferred from the Ministry of Finance to the Authority and vice versa retain all their remuneration, as the previous colleagues and especially the colleague from SYRIZA mentioned. They shall be reduced to seven of nine of the members of the General Council of the Financial Stability Fund and provisions on the incompatibility of members of the management bodies of the CFSF shall be amended. In addition, Article 12 of Law 4438/2016 on general information to be provided by creditors and associated credit intermediaries, for consumers for property intended for residence under Directive 2014/17/EU, is to be supplemented. The competent authorities are identified for the application of Regulation 1286/2014, ‘About key information documents concerning packaged investment products for retail investors and insurance-based investment products’, and administrative fines are provided for specific infringements of provisions of that Regulation, up to EUR 5,000 for legal persons and up to EUR 700,000 for natural persons. Finally, issues relating to the recovery of unlawful State aid are regulated. We have found many such issues in the Ministries. In order to ensure the immediate functioning of the Directorate of Economic Crime Research, it is permitted, firstly, to derogate from the provisions governing the secondment of Heads of Organic Units to positions of responsibility at the same level and, secondly, to place officials serving in that address in transition by a decision of the Minister of Finance and until the completion of the procedures for the payment of positions, in positions of Heads of Organic Units. These are in Article 136. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, may I have the floor for some legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u20	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u21	I want to submit the legislative improvements to the draft law. I'm talking about who they are. At the end of paragraph 4 of Article 124 of the draft law, the words ‘or other specific provisions’ shall be deleted. Article 133 of the draft law is deleted and the other articles of the draft law are renumbered, as I said before. Paragraph 2 of Article 134 of the draft law is replaced by the following: The provisions of the fifth subparagraph of Article 8(2) of L.4270/2014, added by the previous paragraph, shall apply to the staff of the Financial Council who holds or serves an OP position seconded at the time of entry into force of this Agreement.’ Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u22	Thank the Minister. Mr George Amyras, special speaker from the river, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Mrs Papanatsiou in good faith if she knows anything about the 'Growth Strategy for the Future of Greece', that is, the development plan for the future of Greece that Mr Tsakalotos has sent to the troika and discusses it with them. Honestly, I ask you, do you know anything about this project?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u24	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u25	I say that, if you know so, you are very mystic, I would say, to the government, because we have sent a letter to the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr Koutsoukos, Mr Loverdes, Mr Maniatis and Mr Scandalidis for a week now, asking that this development plan be brought forward by the government, as he thinks, in the committee to discuss it. The House must know. I am therefore bringing this request back here, from plenary, because we cannot first know foreigners - following your rhetoric of earlier years - the sensitive elements of the future of the country and, in the end, we in this House will be informed. Now, are we getting out of the Memorandum in August 2018? If we want to say that we are going out with a clear exit from August 2018, the government should definitely take back the measures adopted by the majority of it, namely SYRIZA - ANEL. That is to say take back, firstly, the measure of reducing almost all pensions. It will be up to 18% the reduction from 1-1-2019. In other words, in seven months from now, almost all pensions will be reduced by 18%. If we have a clear exit from the memorials, you should take this measure back, as well as not allow the tax-free 1-1-2020 to fall, probably, which means that a worker of EUR 500 in 2019 will pay his one monthly tax. This is the result of SYRIZA’s proud and hard negotiations - ANEL! We should also, if we have a clear exit from the memoranda, take back measures and decisions on the primary surpluses, the blood, as you described them, until the 2060 that you have committed the country. As you could also tell the Supreme Court to leave the country, because, as you know, with your own decisions and results of your negotiation, the superstition, run by foreigners, will be in Greece by 2115 and will be able to divest any assets of the country, except for the archaeological sites and the items "NATURA" to repay the loans we have given us. So lenders, yes, come out of the memoranda, since since August 2018, they are no longer required to pay us low-interest loans at a rate of 1%. We don't come out of the memorials. We're supposed to come out of the memos. How do we get out of the memorials when the measures that are so hard remain? Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the bill. With regard to the first part, Articles 1 to 110, which are the transposition of the European directive, are positive and we are voting in favour of them. I will simply stand here, as a small footnote, although we have already said so many times in the committee, in Articles 38 to 60 of the draft law, which, in fact, thanks to this European directive, you have been late for a period of six months to incorporate into national law, it has provisions and conditions which are very good for transparency and better informing the payer, the trader, of any charges and individual payment transactions. These are important issues, which I think it is self-evident that we shall vote as part of this European directive. It is also positive that there is at last a duty to inform consumers and that is a very positive one, as is shown in Article 102, for appropriate information for disabled people. I would add that there should be an up-to-date case of non-compliance with business information obligations, on the one hand as an incentive to breach legislation and, on the other hand, for citizens to be better aware of their rights by means of products and services. I come to the second part of the bill, which is problematic. Here it has many provisions that smell of a party state, smell of rosés, smell of anexocracy and find us opposing. These provisions are irrelevant in the articles of the directive. I come to one or two points I want to make. I have, of course, also said so at the meetings of the committee. I come to Article 136, the basic point. It has been established with the multi-brand plan, which you voted on a few months ago, the Directorate for Economic Crime Surveys. He was gonna take cases that were in the A.D.A. on an order to check them out. Now, with this bill, you put head of these organic units with Minister of Finance's decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u26	For three months.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u27	For three months. But not for half an hour, I'd say I shouldn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u28	There's a service.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u29	So let me ask what action has been taken to set up this management.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u30	There isn't right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u31	There's no address right now. And where did you see this "three months"? I didn't see it well. Where does he write it? It doesn't seem in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Amyras, I will refer to her speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u33	He's in the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u34	You're right, Mr. President. There's just a new clue coming up, that's for three months. But I didn't read it anywhere, either. I do not know where the 'three months' is coming from. Do you, gentlemen, know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u35	Nowhere does this be mentioned and we do not know why the question was raised by us, if this procedure as provided for by L.4369...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u36	I'm asking exactly the same questions. And since the reason for this is to say: I had asked a question to the Ministry. I also got an answer from the U.S.A. to check on the Lagard listings. The answer was that from three thousand four hundred and thirty-four cases, in which the investigation started, the check was completed in the thousands of nine hundred and thirty-four and from about 919 million euros, which were confirmed, only EUR 107 million was collected. So the collection ratio per case is one to nine. What steps will you take to improve that ratio? The Lagard list was a subject, indeed a flag, and for all of us it is, and I would say, the glossary of all the tax evasion, tax evasion, tax evasion, those who have and hold against all the others. Article 137 also legitimises retroactive expenditure incurred in excess of the signature. There is no reference to the report by the General Accounting Office of the State as to what the amount is, what the expenditure is, and what the powers have been exercised. That's what I had to tell you about the bill. We're out of here. I told you most of the committee meetings. The first part we shall be voting on, namely the incorporation of the European directive itself. In the second part, however, we have many objections. As far as the amendments are concerned, I will tell you what we are voting on and what we are not going to vote on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-six students and students and three educational attendants from the 21st High School of Athens (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Dimitrios Kavalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the bill of the Ministry of Finance incorporating Directive 2015/2366 of the European Union, the European Parliament and of the Council, on payment services in the internal market. We would like for once not to be negative and to vote with the confidence that we are voting for the right, but always doing something, while there is positive elements in this bill, and you are bringing us backwards. You make our life hard. The bill also contains a number of non-binding provisions, many of which are "photographics", rosphetologicals and irregulars, such as the provision which legalises ex post expenditure. First of all, I should like to refer to the directive containing ten per cent of a forty articles in the bill, an important directive, which was adopted in order to meet the new challenges and the development of technological innovations in the payment market, which lead to the rapid development of electronic payments and payments through mobile phones. She's very useful, especially the last one. That Directive revises the previous Directive 2007/64/EC on payment services, which passed Law 3862/2010, which included national legislation in the field of payment services. Payment services shall be accounted for services enabling the placement and withdrawal of funds in a payment account and all activities necessary for the maintenance of payment accounts or the execution of payment transactions. It includes the transfer of funds to the payment account held to a user service provider or to another payment service provider. The new directive brings together a number of changes, as it broadens the range of payment services, in order to regulate services that have so far not been regulated, such as payment initiation services and account information services. Their ability to regulate increases competitiveness in the internal market and transparency, creating an equal environment in the area of payment services for all providers in the European Economic Area, namely the twenty-nine countries of the European Union, plus Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. Furthermore, it extends the scope of the law to include, for the first time, payment transactions with third countries, when one of the two providers is based outside the European Economic Area, which will henceforth be called EEA for short notice. It redefines the payment services excluded from the arrangement and makes them clearer, strengthens the cooperation and exchange of information between the competent authorities of the EEA Member States, which, in our case, is the Bank of Greece and the General Secretariat for Trade and Consumer Protection of the Ministry of Economy and Development, on the grounds of their competence. It enhances the supervision and authorisation of the Bank of Greece to companies - payment service providers, introducing enhanced security measures to protect the consumer against fraud and other illegal acts. In this context, the terms and conditions for the authorisation of providers are specified, the internal control mechanism, as well as an external audit by a sworn auditing company, is established to fulfil the conditions for the proper functioning of the service providers of these payments. The Bank of Greece has an institutional role and can impose sanctions that can reach the withdrawal of the provider's authorisation or take measures to ensure transparency of terms and information requirements, which, of course, govern payment services. It is also necessary to establish the obligation for payment service providers to establish complaint management procedures by setting specific deadlines for their resolution. There is also something positive to be done at the same time. The positive effects of the directive include further safeguarding consumers' rights in cases of direct debit services through fixed orders. This is because it ensures the right of the consumer, who pays, pays the service, to return his money to the case of fixed orders that have not evolved normally. It is also necessary to prohibit the imposition of an increased charge on consumers using the payment services. As you have understood, this directive finds us relatively agreeable and positive, and not only because of our firm position - which, as a pro-European party, we want to see the laws and rules governing the operation of the Member States of the European Union being harmonised - but also because we see that it contributes positively to the direction of consumer rights - users of payment services, who are growing rapidly, because most of them are now electronically either on the Internet or through plastic money or through payment orders. Racism is increasing and the requirements for strengthening trade safety, which, as I have said, are increasingly being done through new technologies. At the same time, the directive also helps the economy and what we call the 'digital economy', by further promoting the integration of the digital market in Europe, by providing incentives for companies to develop payments via the Internet or mobile phone. Therefore, it increases market efficiency - the market is moving faster - but - if you like - and competition, because there is more potential for choices now. It is particularly important that the directive defines a common legal framework, namely common pan-European rules of the game for all parties, including banks, other payment service providers, the financial technology industry and final customers. If, of course, the government chose the rational way of legislating and brought the directive to the vote alone, the Central Association would be totally positively faced with the bill. We would have no objection to voting on it. However, you come after two and a half years, since the directive was adopted in November 2015 and again bring back, as always, a directive which should have been harmonised as from January 2018 in Parliament. This alone is a monument of lack of planning and care, as you once again show that you are insufficient to respect the timetables and incomplete in respect of the European and international obligations of the country, particularly those which would benefit the Greek people. When it is to vote for monumental obligations that evacuate the economy and create tocopy circle surpluses of 3.5%, when it is to mortgage the public property for the next ninety years, when it is for the automatic superstition or when it is to reduce pensions and wages, when it is to create a problem in the economy, your speed exceeds that of light. But when it comes to harmonisation, you leave it at the end of the day. The bad student! I now come to the second part of the bill. You are attempting with the other provisions of Articles 111 to 141; there is also a subtraction of Article 133 to pass a series of photographic settings to settle "days" to radicalize the state machine even more. Not all other provisions - not to be excessive - such a case of rhetorical benefits and appointments and other irregularities are, of course, not all other provisions. However, there are several provisions, as well as some vague and illegitimate provisions, which do not allow us to vote in favour of this bill and force us to maintain our reservations. Such a provision is Article 115(1) authorising the Minister for the Environment and Energy and the Governor of the Independent Public Revenue Authority to issue a CRL setting out the conditions, conditions and conditions required for exemption from the excise duty on natural gas used for the production of electricity. That would be good if PPC were public. You, however, exempt PPC’s buyers from taxes paid by the farmer, who pays the poor household. The Committees and other parties were given the question of the constitutionality of this provision and the possibility of contravening Article 78(4) of the Constitution, which prohibits the granting of legislative authorisation for exemption or exemption from taxation. You said you'd look into it. It is good to look into it before it becomes the law of the state and we have the 'go back'. It's certain that the order will go down to the courts, so look for it beforehand. I now come to Article 125, in which the 'first time left' goes to set up three new jobs under a fixed-term private-law contract to the Independent Public Income Authority, to appoint beyond and outside each ADP procedure, as if some ten thousand workers who are already serving in ADP could not be covered. There are other photographic - rousphetological provisions to which our Parliamentary representative, Mr Saridis, will refer in detail. I would like to dwell on the general condition, I could say, of the Government of the 'first time left'. You are, unfortunately, using the classic techniques of suppression of the state and of serving electoral interests. This is no different from what we have lived in this country for years, this corrupt system of a client-state, which has reached us and has held us seated in the memoranda and which we will not stop denouncing. This is one of the many examples of the subtle tactic that I can say is following the particular coup d'état in order to make its 'children' easier, indifferent to it, like previous governments, for anything that has to do with the notion of dignity and equal opportunities for everyone. The result of the party state and the rosphet, which reigned and reigns in our country, is, at the moment we are talking about, about six hundred thousand young people who have studied with the effort, the sweat and the money of the Greek people, have left abroad, one and a half million Greeks are unemployed, one of the workers receives 40% hunger and dues wages, and the pensioners will soon not have the necessary for their medicines either. There are also some positive ones, such as the tax exemption for disabled artists, but what are you going to do with it? That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will not vote in favour of the provisions that strengthen the partisan rule and the 'our own children'. I say to you that you will find us in front of you at each of them and at any time when you have the courage, unfortunately - because it is a shame - to bring them to a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the parliamentary representatives. Mr Ilias Panagiotaros will be precedented from the Golden Dawn because he participates at the same time in a committee. Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President, and good month! Another meaningless bill from what they send us from outside, whether it is about harmonization or other issues, which in many cases are not about the winter people. And all that in the middle of a memorial mansion. And when we say "inside", the account and the story of getting out of the memorials very soon, in the summer, we will have a clear exit, neither will anyone convince you, your own executives, even your ministers, who say self-evidently. Everything you have voted for with the third memorandum with the New Democracy, PASOK and the other parties of the so-called 'constitutional arch', the supervision of the ninety-nine years, the fact that the entire property of the Greek people is mortgaged and not just to the loan sharks give us no margin, no hope of exiting the memoranda. You have achieved and presented as a success primary surpluses, which, when you were in Anti-Population, you have not just wrapped them up, but said and thought it was cancer for the Greek society, trick and disaster for the economy. And all that, of course, you forgot about it. Now you have put on and plays the exact tape of your predecessors, when taxes, no longer in the vast majority of Greeks, have increased by 94% in the years of the memorandum. It is the last report of the IOBE Memorandum, which has always been the pillow of the Memorandum Governments, and is coming out and saying what the entire commercial and not just the world says. And while all this is happening and many other issues of economic involvement in our country and an effort to decommission, we also have the continued warp in which we are - apart from the economic issues - and national issues, on all, but at all levels. Unfortunately, we are seeing a constantly growing pressure on all national issues, whether it is about Skopje, with the Northcontinental, with the Cyprus issue. New claims are even being made by Bulgaria which, after a number of years of recession and a reorganisation effort, we see that it has already slowly raised various issues that were supposed to have disappeared. We have the huge scourge of illegal immigration, which, as we see, is very much handled by Mr Erdogan, as by all the other issues and does what he wants. And because he does what he wants to us, you think we have to endure constantly, rather than do the self-evident thing. And we see that in our homeland they are now invading from everywhere, from Evros, from the islands, from which they are literally doing their best to anyone, not only unreserved Syrian refugees, but now to the centers - within many introductorys -'refugees' are counted by more than a hundred states, many of which are more than overwhelmingly few women, not afflicted, but are young at battle age, fanatical Muslims, Islamists, many of whom are jehadists, ready for everything. And after you have offered them 'Good and water' at all levels and 'hot spots', you give them allowances, you give them mobile phones, you give them anything, you give them the right to slap across Greek territory and do whatever they want. The results, in fact, are now seen at the beginning of the tourist season in Athens with the ongoing cases in Philippi, in the center of Athens and elsewhere. And that's what it sounds like. There's more going on every day. As soon as the day before yesterday at Psirri, two young Greeks who were simply walking on them were attacked by some Pakistanis, he says, with knives and as soon as they reacted, they suddenly flew from all their narrow dozens of foreigners, Pakistani friends, the gang and made them unsound to the woods, "tubano", "boulo" and nothing was heard. It's too much of a incident. We see that Turkey is pushing us at all levels and the Greek state is doing nothing. We have also seen Mr Kotzia's television interview, in which he has said many things, some of which are sad. However, it also shows how stoic and relaxed the issues are. On the substance he said of the two Greeks, the Officer and the Officer, who have been captive, hostage - or whatever you want to say - in Turkey without a charge, that it is, he says, nonsense of the two Greek soldiers who crossed the border and that Ankara was legally captive. It was justified, in fact, by saying that this was a common practice when some Greeks accidentally entered the Turkish border or some Turkish in Greek, namely exchanges. Yes, but when there were tensions, as was the incident with the port vessel "Gavdos" or the previous incident in Imia or the incident with the Navy ship that went to vacate it, and at the last moment the incident was avoided, or when we have continuous violations, etc., and when all the experts on national issues strategic analysts tell you that the Turks are looking to find hostages in order to exchange them with the eight Turkish officers who have asked for political asylum, but also the nine Kurds - if I am not mistaken - or Turkish leftists who have been arrested and who are here, but who are not here, you forged thieves. So the moment came when Erdogan threw it to you a few days ago and talked about exchange. And you keep talking about nonsense. Indeed, in your interview you say at some point that in one or two cases the Turks arrived closer to the'red line' and did not violate it, what is the red line, Mr Kotzia? What should finally be done to immerse a whole ship apart from being beaten and vaccinated or hanged by the cigarette by some Greek officers? What should be done to say that they finally crossed the'red line'? You say, in fact, below in this interview: 'I do not know whether they have fallen into a trap or if this was designed, but the way of Turkish behaviour shows a change of understanding'. You got it too late. They were boring the risk bells from everyone, and you were dealing with other issues. Didn't you know? Didn't you warn the people in charge not to go like this, like the dog in the vineyard? Oh, no. Nothing. You don't care. At the same time, at the same time, we have this issue, we are seeing clairvoyant incidents of Greek Parliament, such as some SYRIZA MPs who were in a minority village and who were having a very good time in a tavern and singing Turkish songs. Otherwise, when Golden Dawn asks for specific things, you are chasing the Members of the Golden Dawn when they talk about these issues, you answer by saying that they are their right. Rejoice with these rights. Many things happen that make this bill useless on the substance and meaningless. In fact, as there is no participation, there is not even a speaker to talk about this draft economic text, which is not about the real economy. As much as you want to convince the Greek citizens that after August when we get out of the memorials everything will be fine, we tell you it's nothing good at any level. Even in some sectors that are going well either because of circumstances or because of natural advantages such as tourism, and there you are constantly taxing them and continuing to strangle them. And many people who are involved in tourism will take breath from now until the end of September, at the beginning of October, but then again the Greeks will be able to repay what they do not repay and accumulate as debts continuously. Private debt is constantly growing. Of course, at the same time there is the state's debt to the citizens, but there is nothing going on there. Does a Greek citizen owe a small amount to the state? A confiscation of over 500 euros, anywhere. Does it owe the state to a Greek businessman, a trader, a thousand hundred euros, millions? Let him wait, and if he's destroyed, destroyed, and we're not a snitch. Unfortunately, this is the situation in Greek society, in the Greek economy. And wait, as you say, tourism and bet a lot and rightly on it, but you do nothing, as we have said, on more serious issues, where in Athens, the tourist capital of a tourist country, the gangs of illegal immigrants, do what they like, give no account to anyone and the measures you have taken are from jokes to no-existent. At the same time as we see Greek businessmen, traders and crafters unable to settle their financial obligations because of everything that is happening, we see illegal immigrants who have created unbelievably smuggled to the various favourite asylums on the left, whether they are in the region of Exarches where all the trade and trafficking of all kinds rise to levels that cannot be considered. We see in the various schools, particularly in ASEAN, an incredible settlement of illegal immigrants who are illegally selling various kinds and who dare not touch them. And they have so much evolved the fence of the new Greek state that we see the illegal illegal immigrants selling their illegal phenomena through a higher education institution, lying on the inside of the fence and sitting and having their goods on a backbone just in the fence, so once someone comes to check it out or anything else - he won't come - he's just pulling his phenomena in and all good, one can't touch him. And all that at the same time when the Greek citizens have them and you're hitting them like octopus. You also have a number of amendments which we will be discussing at the earliest opportunity: Amendment No 1566/246 is an amendment by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and has to do with the so-called 'GREEN'. It is a painful story of the past, the past good years of PASOK, where there was "Koutrioulis marriage", as well as elsewhere in the public and its institutions at that time, and it has to do with various debts of "AGROGE" to third parties. We will be present, because we believe that some people in these debts will be able to survive if they take them. Of course, we don't know the procedures or how they didn't even happen. For Amendment No 1567/247, an amendment from the Ministry of Finance is against, because we see that there are facilities here for some big people, but of course not for the microbiologists who have broken up with the PSI and left nothing to them at all. Finally, there is Amendment No 1565/245, where there is a concession for fifty years of one area, in order to make it possible to Primary health unit. That is where we shall vote yes, because we believe it is right. Now on the way to what will happen, who will be the competitions, who will be involved, how they will be dealt with and why they will be dealt with, it is another matter. As our speaker said, we are voting against this bill. I have referred to the amendments. If there is anything else in the meantime, we will be placed on new amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Saridis, from the Central Association, has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you will allow me to begin my introduction by making a very important point, a fully documented statement. The current leadership of the Ministry of Finance proves incapable of protecting Greek taxpayers, appears to be improperly indifferent to the problems of Greek borrowers, it appears tragicly unable to control the banks, those same banks that were recapitulated with Greeks' money not one, not two, but three times. These banks continue every day, to insult the intelligence of our fellow citizens and also of every kind of law, and they do well because they simply do their job, at least as their administrations understand it. But what is the excuse of the Ministry of Finance? Is it the Treasury's job to protect the banks? That's what we think today is the work of the Ministry of Finance? To protect the banks from the citizens, to an extent that degrades the democratic process of parliamentary control with abusive, disgraceful and ultimately offensive effect? If you do not ask, ladies and gentlemen, what I am talking about, I would remind you: we have asked Mr Tsakalotos on behalf of the Greek borrowers and I continue to ask him today, like the Minister of State, through this Chamber, from the Step forward of the House and I challenge him to inform this House, even today, on the basis of this bill, how much money he has in the rest of a particular bank account. This account I'm trying to control is under the exclusive supervision and management of the Ministry of Finance. The Minister for Finance himself manages him with his decisions, without even having to account to anyone at all for this money. The answer, ladies and gentlemen, which is also recorded, on where this money has gone, has shocked me personally. He responded uncomfortablely to me that it's just hard to answer for the rest of this account. Ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to answer. So I ask him again the same question, to give him time to unwind things. And do you know what came in and answered me the second time the Minister answered me? How he answered me last time. In other words, his answer that it is difficult to answer was the answer to the question that I asked him: 'How much money does this account have?' Answer: 'It is difficult to answer, Mr Papoutsis.' ‘How much money does that account have?’. 'I answered you.' Is that the respect, ladies and gentlemen, that you show the citizens? Who will believe us, who will believe you, when you talk about a clean exit, when you cannot answer the simplest question "How much money do we have in that account?"? A question that they ask each other and every day they answer to their homes all Greeks everywhere in Greece when they sit on the table to discuss their finances and try to put them in a row. Madam Minister, I have begun to believe that the reason why you do not answer how much money is in this infamous account - a carpet, as Mr Chakalotos himself described - is - his own words in answer to my questions, is very simple. Fear the next question that follows this answer immediately. Where's the rest of the money? Where'd that money go if it wasn't on that account? Where did you give $4.5 billion, Mr. Minister of the Ministry of Finance? Who's responsible for this money? You realize that the micromolecules are also listening to us. But you are bringing nothing to them. Do you remember these micrologues or have you completely forgotten them? You know, it's those people who first believed and supported this country and trusted their savings, the labors of an entire life in the potential and prospects for the development of the Greek economy. They are those people who were completely destroyed just because they showed confidence in their homeland. It is those people who, because they are small and weak, have not found a solution for their own money, while a solution has been found for banks' money. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] Can you imagine, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what the micro-enterprises, who are hearing you say there is a EUR 4.5 billion cavaja for a bad moment? The bad moment has come. He's here, he's today, he's now. I am presenting a report by Mr Kamilialis for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Saridis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned survey, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, according to the data of parliamentary control, the government should have inherited a pound of 4.5 billion from the Government of New Democracy and PASOK. Do you know that, ladies? If you don't know, let's hear it here today. Where have this legacy's money gone? If the government has not inherited them, why has it been silent on this matter when it has raised other issues, other scandals with much smaller power? Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, the same elements of parliamentary control show that you left a pound of 4.5 billion to the government. If you left him, why haven't you come to the bars and demand explanations, where have the money gone? If you left him, ladies and gentlemen, did you leave him? Why is silence reigning in this matter, in SYRIZA - ANEL, New Democracy and Change Movement? Why do the media despise this particular issue in a journalistic way? Why don't they touch it? I will not give you any more weight, ladies and gentlemen. As far as the bill is concerned, our rapporteur has said it very well. As far as the amendments are concerned, the Central Association will do what it has always done. It will support the right and vote against those that she considers wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, too. Please, Mr. Loverdos take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Importantly, the first part of the bill, insofar as it concerns payments and, in particular, payments, as in our country, they have evolved through completely modern and very different ways from the traditional old, that is, banks and the public. I find it excellent to speak on the draft law of the rapporteur for the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Koutsoukos, which I have studied - I have not read this time - to understand exactly the issues that the directive deals with and which it regulates. I would like to invoke my colleague's speech and add the following: Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have a number of comments to make on the first and second chapters of the draft law, the Directorate for Scientific Studies of the Parliament. I would ask you to look at them very much, because on many points, especially those who have been enthusiastic - your partners, in particular - in the directive itself, may be able to see terminology errors that need to be corrected. I am not going to dwell on these, because I want to make a more general political speech. However, I will stand on two or three of them. Ladies and gentlemen, the remark on page 6 of the Scientific Studies Directorate for Article 31(4) is of interest. The scientific approach points out that you are moving outside the scope of a directive. Do you have the chance? Incorporate text by translating it. You have no right to change it. And there is a more general question. Do you have the possibility of introducing a right, incorporating a directive that does not follow the directive? You don't have the possibility. So do a more careful study of what we are telling you about 31 paragraph 4, because there is a legal issue that is particularly serious. Deviate from the directive, which you incorporate. You need to see it. The second point I consider to be political is that we, as a parliamentary group, have seen this as an article 119, the environmental end to the plastic bag. We have pointed out that you have imposed a regulation - adapted, I am not saying - but you have not organised the course of the money that the public draws from this regulation and you have been delayed. The Greek consumer needs to know. Madam Minister, I have often been in supermarkets, where the consumer is angry - even though the cost of the bag is not great - and he does not want to give it. It will be very interesting to know that this money has not yet been settled, they have not gone ahead for the purposes that have been regulated. And it is very interesting what the Scientific Research Directorate tells you that the time is not fixed now because it is a performance. Transfer is made of you as a service. The third point, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, concerns Article 122 at political level. We are telling you here that, in the scientific approach, you have made arrangements to violate the principle of equality with regard to the staff of the ADP. Because in your attempt to deal again with a number of issues, you are told that you are doing so in breach of the principle of equality, the principle of Article 4 of the Constitution. Be very careful. Illegal customer relationships have altered what Article 122 provides for. I shall therefore conclude with these points and I shall refer to the political issues raised in today's draft law. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what relates to the economy - payments are the epitome of the economy - it is still related to the great patient of the country, the Greek economy. This economy has been handled for nearly three and a half years by you with pathetic results. As soon as they saw the light of publicity yesterday, the latest assessments of the tax burdens submitted to the Greeks and Greeks, to the taxpayers, from the day of the economic crisis and then mainly to your days. Entrepreneurs, all the scientific professions, farmers and harder than all the workers, the employees, have kneeled down from your robbery tax raids. Invasions elsewhere we read "yourouches", elsewhere we read it "different measures of a bunch of ignorant, demagogic and incompetent people", which only such things can do and be taken away for them, are likely to have created a rhythm in the economy. In fact, the Prime Minister said he restored the country's international authority. Self-centered, however, that creates impressions about smiles and not serious thoughts. Plus, on your day, it seems corruption is prevalent. I'm going to stand on this. The Democratic Alliance, which has been thrown by you and your partner for three and a half years, has not once produced a disgraceful or disgraceful reason for the political dimension, the prestige and the honour of any or any of you. We are taking care of our words, even when we are particularly critical of the weak. Here we have a Minister's advisor to report that he has asked for a large sum. I don't care about anything but what I'm going to tell you. You have not been placed on the political level. That's the one. For months now you have been supposed to have sent the relevant file and reactions to justice. What do prosecutors of corruption, the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena, the Minister of Corruption? What are they doing and having other tasks, and we haven't heard anything about that? You don't owe an answer, a political place, an extremism political after all? You owe him. Have you said anything? The answer is you haven't said anything. Nada, nothing, zero. Silent viewers. You're not spectators, you're rulers. You have to answer them, and you have to give them to them. The second issue. The Members of the Democratic Participation in the Standing Committee on Finance have asked for something in a specific way, in a document and Mr Koutsoukos has been put here twice. We have asked the Minister, Mr Tsakaloto, to analyse, to present us, to distribute what he wants to do, but to inform us of the holistic development programme. This is a programme which the National Representation does not know about. This is a "programme", for which all Greeks are listening, but are completely ignorant. They say government officials that this is a plan, which came from a fruitful and spiritual work by the Minister. But what spiritual work will the Head of Government do when his Government and himself have proved that they are the best representatives of Greek bureaucracy? They added bureaucracy for three and a half years instead of removing, they did not have any bureaucratic obstacles to the economy, and they were supposed to do something like that from one point to the next. There is no more specific example than that of the alleged abolition of authorisations. You remove an act, but all the others that are underneath, you leave them as they are. You're removing an energy, you think you've deviated a portion of the economy from bureaucracy, but you've left all the obstacles underneath, because licensing is a final act of a complex energy. She's not the first or the only one. So, fireworks, we imagine it will be all the context they say, this famous 'program', but we haven't seen it. The months go by and the lack of information makes suspicions that it's nothing, that it's a "fire" phrase, like the fact that you'll tear the memorials, that they'll lend us and they'll be forced, like the parallel program, like everything you've said, and they've proved to be completely lying. Ladies and gentlemen, we have served to the rulers all our hearing organs to understand what will happen in the next few months. I'm sorry to say that the unavoidable course of real developments is going elsewhere. Her elements are brutal and hard and as pleasant words as you are trying to say, I don't think you can convince any Greek, no Greek. The growth forecasts - you canceled a growth path '14, '15, '16, '17, '18, '19, to go back to what was started - at a burden of billions and forecasts of the economic progress of the international institutions, are always below what your budgets say. At the same time, a rapid increase in the time-limits either of what the public owes the public and cannot give, or of what you owe, to the market and you do not give, to present fictitious surpluses. I'd like to know how the Prime Minister thinks about all this? How does he see himself in the center of a police force that accompanies him in his visits to islands on the ground? On a last visit there were seventeen platoons around him. How many will it want when it passes to the abolition of pensions in the cash year 2019, which you will be government as you say and will cut the pensions of 95% of pensioners in average terms very - very important for a family's valet? How many platoons will you want then? How easily will your course in Greek society and the Prime Minister's own path, the "lao-problem" Prime Minister, be flown when he will need all the police force of the country to visit a...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u45	All the police force in the country?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u46	Seventeen platoons? Do you know how many are seventeen platoons? Do you make a picture of it? What's an exaggeration?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u47	All the police in the country?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u48	We ran into the forecast. You're very pleased with what's happening today. Mr Manda, reality is tough and a government unfortunately has this task. To face the reality and when the symbols of everyday life are as negative as they are, you have to visit a place and need to go iron-shod there, so you don't come in contact with the popular protest, that's not just a message. It's a clear proof of what's ahead of you. Is the Minister of Finance boasted? Or does he consult the Greek people with what he says about success? The answer has been given. The final answer, however, will be given to the polls. Minister, honourable Members, our position is clear. In relation to the draft law, our political criticism is given. We ask you at least for technical issues, do not involve Greek citizens any more. Give me some solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr. Dendias, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the incorporation of a payment services directive. On this directive and the text, our diligent rapporteur, Mr Vésyropoulos, has been perfectly well placed on the table, as in the second part of the legislation. I have to say that it rightly diagnosed the advice of the Government and the ruling party of the SYRIZA and the ambiguity about participation in the European process in the sense that this directive also comes late. Of course, over time, the government in the past manifestations of its existence as a party of the Representation stood contrary to similar directives. He didn't miss the mistakes. The parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement was mentioned earlier on the labels made by the Scientific Committee. Madam Minister, I am not going to dwell on the specific article that my colleague has mentioned. But look at the remark in Article 3 when you refer to an explicit request. Of course, it is right, in elegance, to say that the Scientific Committee does not apply. The application is manifestly explicit. It says, in fact, that there can be no'resolved or silent application'. I say this as a presumption of both the dubiousness with which this particular issue has been approached. Of course, as always when a piece of legislation comes under the present government, there are behind it and they follow it - what we say about rivers - bearable materials. In other words, where there is the first section of the legislation, there is a whole other section with provisions, not particularly relevant, so that I do not use the word'relevant' - some of which, as always, have their wicked purpose. I, like my colleagues, shall stand in Article 136 on the address of economic crime investigations, which was voted against on a majority proposal - we were not positive at that time either - with No 4512/2018. You remember then, ladies and gentlemen, the opposition had expressed the suspicion that this piece of legislation could serve to serve myths of government, to control controls, to exercise controls, to prioritise controls that the government would want. We were then told, among other guarantees, that the supervisors would be appointed under the applicable law, which SYRIZA voted, incidentally, with L.4389/2016. And before you cherish, the provision of Article 136 comes with which it is transferred to the Minister, as only has the presumption of truth and ability to choose provisional heads. In fact, the Minister, on a point of order, replied with a reasonable quarter, 'for three months it is'. But, Minister, really? Can you believe this thing, in principle? The mistake is in principle: not for three months, but not even for three days should have come. But do you really think that there is a reasonable chance in that state in a quarter, first, that he has been appointed Head, then he has been informed, then he has performed his duties and then replaced with another? And this is called the'regular functioning of the administration'? Is this really the author's intention in this piece of legislation, which I believe you were charged with bringing it in? Because this provision, if we are right to understand, its muscles are the deep state, the deep government state. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that this government has a problem with the institutions. He does not understand the institutions and their functioning. I will give you an example in the legislation before I come to something else, which if I do not miss and do not read wrong about the legislative improvements, has been withdrawn: I say Article 133, which you have withdrawn, Minister. What was Article 133 withdrew? Without explanation, he's retired. You allow the members of the legal board of the State to be appointed as members of the constitutionally guaranteed independent authorities. This was about the retired article. Ladies and gentlemen, where is the Legal Council of the State subject? What is it? He is the legal adviser of the administration and is subject to the Minister of Finance. So the Minister of Finance, i.e. the public lawyer, was allowed by this provision - which, I say again, implicitly came and has been implicitly withdrawn - to be a member of a constitutionally guaranteed independent authority, which within its very nature has the state to control. The State's lawyer shall also become the State's auditor. And that is what is called institutional function. Is it possible that these things, even after retiring, should come to the House? And again, no explanation was given because he was withdrawn. None! But think that in order for this provision to come here how many obstacles have passed an institutional perception. As I also have to say that for us, our party issued a communication on this subject. It has made us a terrible impression yesterday's no paper of the Prime Minister's office. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the distinction of powers in Greece? Where and how far can it be possible, not even the executive authority, but its upper grade, the Prime Minister himself, to express judgments on pending court cases with certainty, to condemn on whatever grounds? What is the institutional limit of operation? How to defend what this country has bleeded into. There are supposed to be many members of the ruling party who, if I am not deceived, call themselves or heterosexually call themselves judicial, that is, people who are sensitive to respecting and protecting human rights, perhaps metric times and too much. One of them wasn't found to protest? Does it not constitute a self-evident human right to doubt until the manifestation of the final, final judgment of Greek justice and justice in general? What is the European acquis in which we are finally participating as a country? Do we want to be a European modern country or do we not want to be a European country? Because, you know, every time we don't know where it stops evil. I was, unfortunately, again as a Parliamentary spokesman in this Chamber, again trying to explain to the government majority that it cannot carry out investigation tasks - for a few weeks now - that it is not in its work, that it is an institutional diversion and that it is outside the framework of the Constitution, the laws and the European acquis. Unfortunately, I am again in the same step on May 2nd to try to convince a government majority that how much the Prime Minister cannot behave in this way and that ultimately resents the entire institutional branch that sits in the country. It doesn't work for someone and against someone. It doesn't work for the government and against the counterpopulation. It works at the expense of a whole democracy. And we know very well who is waiting at the corner, who is finally taking advantage of the government's perception of degrading democracy. The New Democracy has really tried to have an institutional response on this. Our answer is an answer which concerns the protection of the culture and democracy. He does not stand in person's protection, he does not stand in private interests. It is absolutely institutional, and absolutely institutional, that the government should operate. And again, I'm really sorry to be in this position again. I conclude, on the well-known subject, that the message of clean exit has again been said in this Chamber. The government tells us that after August: "It is over, we come out of the crisis or we move towards another better reality". Who doesn't want it? It is, however, the government's duty to describe what the parameters of this new reality and of clean exit are. Because a net way out of pension cuts, with the tax-free amount earlier, with the same framework of commitments and with the only difference that we will not have any more money, I do not think it means, you will allow me to tell you a net way out. I do not think there is anyone outside this Chamber who can sign this account, the same in terms of obligations, we simply have no money to take. Is that what we define as a clean exit? Of course, it has been said before and I am also obliged to underline it, the government is discussing with the European institutions a development plan which only the government knows. The National Representation has no idea. In institutional terms, the parties, as political bodies, have not been informed at all. Mr Chakalotos took it into Brussels, consults the partners, very well. Is that a democracy? I am coming back and ending, the government suffers from absolute institutional confusion and, unfortunately, this absolute institutional confusion is deeply damaging democracy. The government must return to institutional function and institutional seriousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u51	Thank you. We shall proceed with the next speaker, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Manda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u52	Good morning and a good month. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think that for the first part of the bill, most of the political forces seem to convene that they are regulations that are positive. They are in the same direction as other arrangements and incorporations respectively from the Hellenic Delegation. I would like to say to those who claim to be late, slowly integrated, and so on, that they can address the General Secretariat of the Government and see how the current government and at a rate in relation to the other countries incorporates directives. They'll be positively surprised. But look for this, a little bit, because it has been made next door to the Secretariat-General - it has been said in this Chamber again - a committee that monitors all these things. I therefore urge you to ask for this information to see at the pace of reference and with other years' time, we incorporate directives and what great material has been left. You'll see you'll be positively surprised. I say that and I think you have the opportunity to look for them. Secondly, there are other provisions - those which have been mentioned as problematic, and I imagine that the relevant Minister will answer some - I shall mention three - four of them, which I consider to be extremely important and positive. There is, for example, the provision, which concerns - and I think there is no doubt there - disabled artists, Article 114. It is a positive provision very clearly. Also, the following article, 115, on the exemption from the excise duty on gas used for the production of electricity, is an article in a positive direction and in a right direction. There is Article 118, which concerns the extension of the tax arrangements for taxpayers subject to the provisions of the extra-judicial compromise for all taxpayers. In order to make this understandable, in these fixed arrangements under Law 4174 and Law 4152 for debts of more than EUR 50 000, a number of supporting documents were required before this provision made it difficult to produce the relevant procedure. This arrangement has been suspended for two years in order to enable citizens and businesses to be facilitated, in order to settle the obligations. It is also an importantly positive provision. Article 125 also gives an extension of one more year to favouring tax treatment of write-offs of natural and legal persons to credit institutions with a view to facilitating the granting of arrangements for various categories of citizens. I think it's just as important a provision. One of the amendments to simplify the procedure for exemption from traffic charges to vehicles serving minors with disabilities is also a positive provision. I said, and I imagine it is self-evident that they can find convergence between all the political forces, because I believe that they are enough indeed from the part of the other provisions, which are very positive regulations. You're looking to find out, I'd say persistently, that behind some provisions we're building a party state and so forth. I would call these vulnerabilities if I could speak. I think you'll get the answer from the Minister. You won't find as much as look for these things as you can. You'll be looking, but you won't find it. I now come to the general political debate that has been developed in Parliament's Chamber today. First of all, to say where we are as a country, because this is within a storm of various news ejected from specific media somewhere we lose it. I would say, for example, that the visit and speech of the head of the Community, Mr. Yunker, who was passing away, was, if I remember correctly from the reports and news reports, to speak at the Konstantinos Karamanlis Foundation, but rather what he would say, they were not in favour of today's leadership of the New Democracy and of the way in which it perceives things. So Mr. Juncker, this is where the Stepma said some very important things about the country. Not for the government and SYRIZA. Let's say it happens to be government at this time a government that, despite the difficulties, despite the complex international situation, managed to take some steps in very difficult conditions with the Greek people's mandate, after the painful compromise of 2015, we went to elections with the entire agenda... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, I cannot speak with this noise.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u53	Who makes noise? Please don't make any noise, because Mr. Mandas is bothering.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u54	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u55	Are you disturbed, too? Speaking is annoying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u56	Unfortunately, this has made it difficult for me, but I'm going to keep going. So I was saying that in very difficult circumstances, I also think that with measures that we have never denied that they were too painful for our fellow citizens, but with full honesty and without second thoughts and other things before the Greek people, we have put these things in place. We have received a mandate, no matter how many times Mr Mitsotakis has asked for elections - he is asking for them a couple of years now - to be exhausted. We will go to elections at the end of this government's constitutional period. So we are now a few months before the end of the programme and exit from the memoranda. What can we do? This government is doing it. Some people are very upset about this, some who have passion, I would say, one way or another, to continue our suffocating ties to the Troika. This is equal to what is expelled from some circles as a preventive line. Because they know very well that what we call and is a pure exit means the end of this particular committee with its specific features, namely the evaluation procedures for disbursement of instalments, prerequisites, etc. And they know very well, we have quite frankly told the Greek people that, obviously, supervision does not stop or the difficulties disappear as we walk on a blooming path. They know that very well. We say, however, that this supervision will obviously be proportionate to the one that has happened in the other countries that have come out of the programmes. And we know very well that until we get there we still have a hard way. I would say that on this difficult road, instead of the political forces in various ways and various routes blocking, they should, at least, hold a neutral attitude. Because they know very well that these processes are difficult, they are multiplayers' composition processes together. As they also well know, it is also the case with regard to the development programme, whose main guidelines have been made public by the Ministers for Economic Staff too many times. I do not understand what colleagues do not understand from Opposition when we tell them that this is a process which must be followed, as has been observed in the respective programmes that the other countries have carried out. They're programs, you know, shortened, of the fifty-sixty pages that indicate the main lines. There's no surprise, something terrible secret. The relevant ministers have stated the basic lines in a public and clear manner. Unless you don't want us to be clean toward both creditors and to Greek society that, yes, the collective agreements we want to bring them back and we have voted for, the minimum wage we want to raise him. And this must be clear to all sides, that we want to take a concrete course, where we will also have an open communication with the vast majority of Greek society. Throughout this context, that is to say, a process which is difficult, with obstacles to the end, we also have to show very important samples in the Greek economy, as regards the development component and the over-performance with the specific primary surplus that EUROSTAT has recently confirmed, which is a weapon in the negotiation. It is an important weapon in negotiating the difficult thing we are doing, in these last measures of this very long and difficult course. Well, at this juncture, some people think they will blackmail the government, speak in terms that escape from the debate in this Chamber. They are conditions in other areas of public and private life. Some people think that as it was, maybe, - I do not want to believe it personally - in other times, they will in the same way be able to blackmail, demand and raise the phones for a formal - says - procedure, some past hours of the night. Our answer is as follows. We would expect the representatives of the opposition to hear a word about it. Let us be severely criticised if the institutions consider that we have been diverted or intervened or other things like this, which are said in this Chamber on several occasions. A word about the typical, supposedly, big business call we didn't hear. The Greek people must listen to this. Is it normal for the various big businessmen - and this individual, who is being prosecuted, is being persecuted at the moment - to raise the phones and call institutional representatives of the Greek people in the middle of the night to ask why the announcement came out anyway? And in that at least the opposition parties would have to take their stand. I'm sorry they couldn't find a word about it. I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Mada. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", thirty-nine students and students and two teachers from the 13th High School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, after three years of a difficult struggle we come out of the memorials clearly and without any commitments, as some of us here might wish to have. The memorials that brought PASOK and the New Democracy to our country come to an end. It was also mentioned by the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman that we were unable to bleed through this whole process. In fact, we've made several retreats. From there on, however, we think that what is left of us at the moment is to redesign the productive model of the country, which we have redesigned. We want growth and employment together. We do not want the development of neoliberalism which increases unemployment, increases inequality, which we have seen in recent years in the memoranda. At the heart of our policy is the worker, it is the restoration of collective agreements, it is the restoration of the minimum wage. You're struggling for the development plan. We really have, throughout the public speech, at times and you all know at least the directions of the development plan. Nevertheless, the development plan will be presented in the next period. Don't fight. From there on, I want to talk about a number of issues that have appeared in the public language in recent days and which have been heard in the last few days and have also been heard in plenary by rapporteurs. The government representative and the Office of the Minister of Finance have responded extensively. I would, however, like, because it was very specifically put forward by a rapporteur, once again, to mention the answer from the Ministry of Finance about the reports and complaints concerning the alleged involvement of the Ministry of Finance in the case of money laundering, and to mention to you: First of all, it is a provision which has been voted on in 2007 and which provided for remuneration in the event of a complaint by someone for tax evasion. Since its vote, and after that provision has not been activated by any government nor by our government, since the Ministerial Decision, which would lay down the issues and specific details for its implementation, has never been adopted. The reasons are many and are mainly concerned with the general wording of the rules laid down in Article 7b and 7b of the Treaty. 3610/2007 which in turn makes it difficult to prove the role of a complainant, the level of tax evasion, the services responsible for applying the procedures and all the rest. Therefore, there was never a case for the Ministry of Finance to issue an individual act concerning the complainant or any other individual case, since the institutional framework does not exist. Therefore, there was not even the ground for any transaction and we wonder how these issues are coming in. The complainant, either individually or through his lawyer, has been addressed to the Ministry of Finance, AIA and the relevant departments too many times. In his attempt to be justified, he does not hesitate to throw mud against the Minister's partner. The Court of Justice, to which the Office of the Minister for Finance has referred, has just been notified of the complaint. It does not seem to us that the opposition and the press associated with it are struggling to make use of complaints similar to their level. The Ministry of Finance will continue to legislate and implement provisions that actually hit tax evasion, as has now been seen by budgetary over-efficiency, and not inappropriate provisions, such as previous governments, without any objection. As far as the dispute with the well-known businessman is concerned, I think Mr Mandas has given exactly the signal. Indeed, it is worthy of reason, because you brought it up for discussion and why you did not bring the position that any businessman can raise the phone and interfere with a minister. I think we should see it if you wanted to talk about it as a whole and not alone, as you put it. But, rather, you should tell us why the matter is on this basis. I would like us to deal with this bill at the moment. Developments in services and in payment technology are rapid. In the last decade, the way we pay any obligations, both ordinary citizens and businesses, has changed drastically. The type of agencies, which offer payment services, has been considerably expanded. At European level, we have seen that there are now, and are very widespread, innovative products and payment services, which were not intended to become part of the scope of the current European legislation. In order to eliminate the problems of this gap with Directive 2015/2366 we agreed to amend Directives 2002/65, 2009/110 and 2013/36 and Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, as well as repealing Directive 2007/64. This draft is precisely the incorporation of Directive 2015/2366 into Greek legislation. In relation to the existing framework under Law 3862/2010, it brings significant changes which concern the following points: Firstly, it extends the range of payment services to take account of the services, which have until now been regulators. Their inclusion in the new institutional framework strengthens transparency and security in the single market, broadens the scope of the framework, including payment transactions with third countries, when one of the two providers is located in the European Economic Area. The transparency of transactions shall be increased when payment transactions outside the European Economic Area and when payments are made in currencies outside the European Economic Area. It shall update exempted payment services, with a view to legal clarity, to increasing transparency and creating a level playing field in the European Union. It shall strengthen cooperation and exchange of information between the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Economic Area. It introduces enhanced security measures for all payment service providers. Consumer protection is increasing against fraud and other illegal acts with new security measures. It establishes an obligation for payment service providers to establish complaints management procedures and deadlines for their resolution. Our Government believes that the dissemination of the use of electronic payments, in a way that can be traced back to the origin of money, contributes to transparency and to the fight against tax evasion, but also to limiting the funding of all kinds of illegal activities. Of course, the use of electronic money is not panacea, but the contribution is important, as both international and Greek experience has shown. Already, we have significant effects on VAT receipts, which have increased by more than 20% over a two-year period, and that is why we have a large programme to encourage the use of electronic money and the replacement of cash transactions. In this context, we have stimulated citizens to e-commerce, both through tax-free and through public lotteries. In addition, we have legally forced most of the categories of companies to accept electronic transactions and card transactions. The Secretariat-General for Consumer Affairs is doing a great deal of work in this area and, as the Secretary-General, Mr Aylonis, informed us in the committee during the debate on the draft law, Mr Aylonis, has done a great deal of work on the transparency of charges and abusive charges, which the Secretariat-General looks beyond the limits required by the directive. There is also the work of the Secretariat-General for the establishment of the Observatory on bank charges, while it is interesting that consumer protection should be extended to micro-enterprises with a corresponding need for protection with the individual consumer. The next steps in this area are the electronic invoicing and interconnection of cash registers with tax authorities in real time, as well as the electronic book keeping, action prepared by the Ministry of Finance and the Independent Public Revenue Authority, which in 2019 we are preparing to implement pilot projects. The second part of the bill includes a series of articles dealing with other issues of the Ministry of Finance. I think that any question has already been raised in committee on Article 111, which facilitates foreign diplomats, who are unable to carry cars in their own country while they were serving in our country and leave them behind, in order to transfer them to the diplomats who replace them in our country. It is also necessary to clarify a few things about Article 112, which has been heard a great deal in the debate in the committees and have nothing to do with the article. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Mr President, I'm gonna need a few minutes to finish. With this provision we are giving our fellow citizens the right, who have claims against third parties, to initiate the procedure themselves for the transfer of their rights, so that they can serve their legitimate demands. Our number of requests has been transferred by taxpayers who owe them third-party money, and while these third-party has been justified in judicial proceedings, they have been ordered to have an asset sold out of which they could cover their debts, and I would say - thinking wickedly - do not translate the relevant judicial decision, with the aim of finding a buyer first and then quickly transferring the assets and selling them again, leaving their debts uncovered. This distortion comes to cover with this regulation, enabling the person who owes him money, to claim his claim, to the detriment of the poor debtor. Of course, this provision also concerns the public, but it has nothing to do with the infamous auctions. The public must claim its rights, but that is what it considers appropriate to do, not in single dwellings, not in main residences, not in microprocessors, not in people who have a real weakness of payment. Of the other great or poor taxpayers, of course, we will also claim the public's claims. That is understandable and we must do this to all the consistent taxpayers, who, with their sacrifices, are keeping the country alive and will in a few months' time be able to get it out of the suffocating surveillance of the memoranda. With Article 114 we are prolonging the regulation of the previous years and for the tax year 2017, with the result that the income earned by the occasional or opportune employees (employers, householders, students) is taxed on the scale of the employees and that their actual income does not exceed EUR 6,000 and that of EUR 9,500. Article 115 relates to the exemption from excise duty granted only for the quantities of natural gas used for the production of electricity. It doesn't change anything that's already in place. The only thing that changes is that the first paragraph gives the authorisation to the relevant Minister and the Governor of the Independent Public Revenue Authority for the adoption of a regulatory act clarifying the conditions for the application of this exemption and, in particular, the checks required to be carried out in order to clarify clearly which quantities of gas are intended for the production of electricity, in order to exempt them - and only those - from excise duty. Article 117 corrects issues created in everyday practice by the application of Law4389/2016 for the calculation of classification fees, on the basis of the retail price rather than of the factory value. Article 122 on the staffing of the AACC also fails to read it properly or is misinterpreted. With this article, we are able to staff, with only one tenderer of its own tenders for three years, after which, in agreement with the AACC, this possibility is given for nine months only, in the case of a notice from another body and only if the candidates meet the requirements laid down for the service in question. With Article 136 we are creating a very short transitional period - three months, perhaps a little longer, but there it is about - in order to temporarily put some people on the wheel of an extremely exceptional service. It is the Department of Economic Crime Investigations, whose guidance and coordination of operation is held by the Prosecutor of Economic Crime. This transitional regime will be able to place heads of state. It can't work if there aren't any bosses. At the moment there is no staff, so you can say that we are revoking some and putting others in place. He's got to pick up the files pending from the ADP. Subsequently, new heads will be placed, based on L.4369/2016, as is the case for the rest of the government. All the rest of the public, until first the positions of directors, chiefs, etc. were covered by the ministers. Then there will be the application of Law4369 to all. We leave to the judgement of the constitutionally-established Independent Authority of the SAPA, not only the positions of Heads, Directors and Directors-General, but even the Secretary-General. In other words, if, for this short period, which has to go ahead, you think that a different approach is being made. We manage a decisive blow to the clientele public, which the previous governments had built. So it is inappropriate to try to accuse us of giving the Minister of Finance the authority to appoint directors. Those who criticise this article do not want this service to work. They want delays, they want limitations of cases, because they want to protect some. As far as the Lagard list is concerned and the issues that have been raised in relation to cases are concerned, first of all we have to confirm the sums that we have to pay. From there on, as regards the collection of the amounts established after the end of the check, it is sought by the services of the Independent Public Revenue Authority in accordance with the provisions of the Public Revenue Tax Code, after such actions have been taken. However, given that the investigations of the people on the Lagard list are also acting in the public prosecutor's court order to ascertain whether the offence is being committed either by tax evasion or by money laundering from payment or not, it also depends on the criminal course of the cases to which it relates and which are pending before the judicial authorities. So, this part of Lagard's checklist doesn't end here, it's a lot all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u59	I ask the Justice Department and she doesn't know and tells me to ask the Treasury. I ask, you don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u60	I have answered you, Mr Colleague: the procedure is progressing. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say that in this draft law we incorporate the European Directive on the modernisation of the institutional framework, on payment services, into national legislation, we contribute to promoting transparency and convenience in the transactions offered by innovative methods of payment. At the same time, with a number of other articles, we resolve individual issues, which are always in the direction of promoting the effectiveness and transparency of the functioning of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u61	Thank you too, Mrs. Papanatsiu. After the Minister, the debate is being held in the first place...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, we are not here on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u63	What about the amendments? Nobody asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u64	We agreed on the prototypes that we would talk in our second language about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u65	We agreed to this from the outset.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u66	All right, have you asked the floor in turn? He's Mr. Besiropoulos first.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u67	In turn, Mr. Pavlides is the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u68	In order of parties. If SYRIZA wants to talk about the amendments, he is obviously Mr Pavlides. Mr. Pavlidis, I'd say you're the last person to be placed unless you want to be the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u69	I have no problem, Mr President, I shall speak last.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I will be very brief, because I was put to my protagonists on the amendments. However, because there were some others and a parliamentary amendment was accepted by the Minister, I will shortly be placed on them. Madam Minister, I have explained to you our positions on paragraph 1 of the Amendment No 1566 and a specialist on 'GREEN S.A.' and on the grounds that they substantiate our negative vote. In paragraph 2 of the same amendment, there is a provision which we fully agree with and refers to the extension of the concession of the use of agricultural land to landowners, professional farmers and the unemployed. I ask you to take the form of an autonomous amendment, paragraph 2, to give us the opportunity to vote on it, because in the way you bring it, it is not possible to do so. With regard to the amendment on the general number 1556 and the special number 242 that you accepted, Minister, for the real estate of the Single Fruit and Vegetables Management Agency in the public sector, located on the Regional Market of Kouloura Imathia, the fact is that the New Democracy agrees with and will vote positively, with the binding prospect of creating and housing the office of Veria in this area, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the Minister has attempted to respond to some of the serious issues that we raised about the Rusphetan provisions of the bill. He didn't convince us, and we'll insist, because you can't say that you're moving on to democracy and nominate heads.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u74	Should we leave the structure without the heads?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u75	Secondly, the amendments, Mr President, are introduced in a way that does not facilitate the vote. I am referring to Amendment No 1567, which has four articles. The first article gives discharge to the companies that will be involved in the Swaps programme from the special solidarity contribution. We are opposed to this. We've already exempted them from income tax. There are too many cases where they have an income tax exemption and they pay a solidarity contribution. Why would that be? However, it has three other provisions, such as the one on traffic charges on a monthly, bi-monthly basis, which we are positive. How are we going to vote? The government therefore had to ensure that it introduced the amendments in such a way as to enable us to vote and vote against. So in this amendment we are obliged, because we disagree with the first and agree with the rest, to vote 'the present'. There is the amendment that refers to the properties of the former TSE, which will go to the Ministry of Health, to house the Primary Care Service. While it seems that something is right, because we do not know the route of these real estates and because this process has been delayed, we will vote'residents'. There is an amendment that finally solves an issue that I too have mentioned many times in this Chamber, which concerns farmers who have now leased their land. I told Elia that we had the dried lakes of Agulinitsa and Muria. This amendment is always delayed by the government. We shall vote 'yes', but at last let the government regulate these in good time. We also agree with the liquidation of the AGRICULTURE. Let me remind you that we had introduced the law to clear up the scandalous case that was then "GROEN". We will also agree with the amendment by SYRIZA colleagues on the accommodation of the customs office in the Koulura building in Imathia. I see here that another amendment by SYRIZA colleagues has been withdrawn, perhaps because it is covered by the government's amendment. There is also an amendment that you gave us, which does not say whether it is accepted or withdrawn. By coincidence it's mine. Is it good for the Minister to tell us: is he accepting it? Do you reject it? Am I referring her, as she had told us last time, to see her again? We're waiting for an answer. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u76	Mr Vardalis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u77	I'll need a minute, Mr. President. Only one clarification will I make in relation to the amendments. For number one. We shall vote 'at present' for the same reasons, because there are two articles with which we disagree and two articles which are in a positive direction. I am simply clarifying our vote. We shall vote 'at present' for this reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u78	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u79	Mr. President, would you excuse me for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u80	Here you go, Mr. Besyropoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, looking at the bill now, I see that Amendment No 1567 has been incorporated into four articles. Can we vote on it in an article?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u82	It's an article not. All over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u83	It is Article 141, Article 142, Article 143, Article 144.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u84	The Rules of Procedure say that we are not voting on individual amendments. Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to give some clarification on our position in the amendments. I, too, begin with Amendment No 1567 on exemption from the solidarity levy for companies. This is Article 1. We are negative to this exception. We say 'no' to Article 1. In the rest, however, articles dealing with different issues are agreed. So we too are in this strange position, since the government brings them all together, say'residents' and not vote in favour of a provision which we do not accept. We will also vote in the amendment with a general number of 1565 on property that will come under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance for primary care. While the target seems to be positive, no one knows how to get there. And because we have been afraid of our eye with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government bringing an amendment and behind it, we will vote'residents'. We say 'yes' about 'yes', in particular about Article 2, for farmers. I think that this process should finally be systemized, carried out in an automatic way and every time we do not give extensions with such amendments. For the general amendment to Imathia and the accommodation of the customs office, we are positive. We, too, expect to hear from the Minister whether or not he accepts the amendment tabled by Mr Koutsoukos with a general number of 1564 for customs officials and the relevant provisions applicable to the Code of Conduct for disciplinary purposes. This amendment, so far, is 'orthodox'. He has a father, of course, Mr. Koutsuko. In order to 'bloom' this amendment, however, it must be accepted by the government, so I expect to hear what the Minister will say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, too. Mr. Pavlides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. I think that very positive provisions and regulations have emerged in the debate on the bill. Apart from the forced incorporation, speaking of certain specific articles, it seemed clear that they are in a positive direction, whether it relates to Article 114 or to disabled artists, either to favourable tax arrangements and extensions, to issues which significantly help the effectiveness of the extra-judicial mechanism, such as Articles 118 and 125, or to specific production groups such as tobacco growers in Article 116, or to amendments to parliamentary or ministerial concessions of a social nature, to issues relating to farmers, or to matters relating to concessions in the traffic charges for the immobilisation of vehicles, which solve quite serious problems in society. However, I think it is very important to address a specific issue, which, in my opinion, is also regrettable. When we speak from a public standpoint, and most of all from the Step of the House, we should be a little more responsible. Because we have heard complaints, charges and harsh criticisms of ruffles and appointments from almost all of the opposition. Unfortunately, this tactic that says that when reality disagrees with our account and with our theory, the worst of reality is confirmed. I'm going to put myself in a very specific position. First, Article 122 concerns the issues of ADI, enabling the pool of participants to take corresponding positions so that there are no gaps in the functioning of this independent authority. If nothing else, it's an SAPA process. If this tank is from this ASP, from the previous ASP or from a new ASP is an issue for which a sound criticism can be heard. Nonetheless, it is not right and one cannot speak of appointments or recruitment when it is clearly predicted that it is an APA procedure by participants of this competition. Secondly, with regard to Article 123, it is the request of the Independent Public Revenue Authority of three administrative posts, two for the Management Board and one for the Governor to provide for them. The Ministry of Finance approved this request. It is an independent authority, which has a request to be administratively covered by specific administrative support positions. Given that it is an independent authority such as this will require positions of responsibility from administrative secretarial support staff, it will require confidentiality, discretion, consistency and a particularly strict responsibility. If anything, the Ministry of Finance rightly serves a request from the Independent Public Revenue Authority, speaking of three administrative positions relating to the administration of the AAR. I don't know how it's justified for someone to talk about ruffles and intakes from the window and assignments, etc. Finally, the most tragic is this temporary placement - the Minister said so - head of Economic Crime Units. We have six thousand outstanding financial assumptions that have to be checked. There are headless financial control units and they are merely requested for the period until the procedure for filling these posts is completed by the legal procedure, as a result of the legalisation of this procedure provided for, these units will not remain headless so that they can continue their work and end the outstanding cases of six thousand in number. If these three specific articles consider and justify that they are hiring and refreshing from the window, given that they are a three-month temporary coverage of these needs, so that these services do not remain headless, I think they are at least if not naive, quite a suspect of being so placed. Let some things be criticized, such as where to draw your staff or not, or demand that there be a new ADP competition in ADP. We'll take it. We'll talk about it. But here talking about ruffles and window appointments in SAPA or temporary positionings is at least hypocritical. It's good to read the bills better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-four students and students and two teachers from the 13th High School of Athens (second section). The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Foreign Minister, Mrs Papanatsiou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u89	I shall refer to Rule 136, because it has also been mentioned in Mr Koutsuku's speech. Don't you want the new structure to work to get the cases? How will the new structure work...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u90	They'll be in your hands!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u91	That's what you want! You said it very well. That's what you want, that's what you want, and that's why you're trying to put obstacles in our hands. They won't be deleted in our hands. That is why we will bring heads from other sections to the new structure until the new heads are appointed with L.4346, as we have voted. From there on, the parliamentary amendment with a general number of 1564 and a specialist of 244, tabled by Mr Koutsouko, is not acceptable. I imagine you'll bring her back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u92	Of course I'll bring her back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is finalised: "Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2015/2366/EU on payment services and other provisions". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would also like to inform the House that Rule 133 has been deleted and the other articles have been renumbered. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u94	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u95	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the Minutes and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u96	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2015/2366/EU on payment services and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u98	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-02-S1-commons.u99	With the consent of the House at 14.55 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 3 May 2018 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
