ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before we begin, I would like to read a communication to the House. The Special Parliamentary Committee “for a preliminary examination in accordance with the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly, taken at its meeting on 21 February 2018 on the NOVARTIS case”, shall present its findings, which shall be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-30-S1-commons.u2	We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Today, only one question will be discussed and the following questions will not be discussed either by consultation or by the Ministers acting alone: The third under number 1521/17-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christou Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: ‘Two metres and two weights?’ The second question under number 1550/24-2018 is the second question by MP II of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "The need to take an initiative to strengthen anti-crime policy following the recent multiple phenomena of violent crimes in residentials and the lifting of the unfair nature of the acts of victims' reaction". Also, they will not be discussed because of an impediment - because of the workload - of the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Paul Polakis, the following: The fifth under No. 1517-17-4-2018 topical question by MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Restoration of problems in the operating rooms of the new wing of the Chios Hospital". The seventh ninth No. 1511/16-2018 topical question by MP Laconia of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Summary of patients from the EKAB to private clinic Intensive Therapies Units”. It will not be discussed because of a hindrance - because of the workload - of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, the following: The eighth Question No 1369/20-3-2018, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities in the Official Journal of the European Communities, was published in the Official Journal of the European Communities on 8 July 2014. The rest of the time-limits that will not be discussed will be read later. The second question under number 1537/23-2018 of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights will now be discussed. The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr. Kontonis. I see that the questions from all Members of Parliament to Mr Kontonis are almost the same. The Vice-President, Mr Cremastino, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-30-S1-commons.u3	Madam President and Minister, I must admit that I was aware of this question following the image of the advocate. This image was broadcast by foreign televisions and how a man who was attacked in his home was not capable - after he decided to defend himself, strike, kill - legally differentiate from anyone else who is doing the same offence, that is to say, shooting and accused by the offense of self-righteousness, etc. This picture, of course, was not good for the media, not only ours, but also ours. Because this problem, namely when self-righteousness is self-righteous and when it is self-defense, is great. There is, therefore, a concern - of course, you too - whether our current legal regime should be differentiated on this point so that it is indeed adequately determined what self-defense consists of. That is, for example, when an attack of an armed, violent, inside his home or with a corpse other than a gun or a knife or anything at night, this is not considered self -righteous. Because this unfortunate man, who thus turned into court, caught his gun, good or bad. That's what he had. If he had a knife, he'd hit with a knife. If he had a chair, he'd hit with a chair. Everything he had to defend. So this question that is now being asked and is timely is whether you have been concerned, if you have come to a specific decision how this thing can be dealt with. Or we'll leave it, somehow, so the people and the judge will go to court? Because, of course, if he were young, that would not be the picture that we saw on television and possibly that sensitivity would not exist, that is, if he were young. But the image of the advocate has given us more sensitivity to think about, and that is why I am also concerned about my question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-30-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr Cremastine, and respect for the time. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-30-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, you raise a very serious issue, the issue of defence, which is addressed in the Criminal Code in Article 22, but beyond that and the excess of defence, as described in Article 23, thirdly, the way in which these provisions are applied to everyday life - because you have spoken about self-righteousness, and, fourthly, you ask - and you are rightly asking - what is the government intending to legislate in the direction of safeguarding legal goods and rights? First of all, I would like to say that the defence is the right of every citizen. That is why there is Article 22 in the Criminal Code, which describes the limits and conditions of the defence. And I would like to stress that the legal significance of defence, as a reason that excludes unfairness, is socially founded, that is to say, on the need to protect the validity of the law with the self-powered energy of a citizen. I will make a comparison to tell you that this is much more important than saving a dangerous good, such as in the state of emergency that the relevant article, Article 25, describes the conditions and conditions. In this sense, therefore, I would like to tell you that the institution of defence is fully justified by the need to supremacy of the legal order and, indeed, in conflict with legal property of natural persons, who at that time offend other legal goods and who is forced to act on their own merits. Because, as you can see, it is impossible for the state to be ever present and to prevent the rights of all citizens from being violated. This is the framework of defence as there are years in our Criminal Code. I think it is absolutely sufficient. It should be noted that Article 22(3) also refers to the measure on the basis of which the defence must move. I read to you: 'The necessary measure of defence is judged by the degree of risk of the attack, by the type of damage it threatened, by the way and intensity of the attack and by other circumstances'. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Give me some more time, Madam President, because I may not come back. I want to tell you, then, that the law gives this right. At the same time, however, it also sets the limits for exercising this right under the conditions I have just read to you. In Article 23, which refers to the excess, the legislator says something in paragraph 2, which is very important. He states: "It remains unpunished and is not imputed to him, if he acted in this way because of the fear or turmoil caused by the attack." So the act remains unpunished, if we have a state of fear and trouble, not to a supreme extent that excludes the charge, but to constitute a particular mental pressure on the victim, which at that time is called upon to react. You realize that the legislative arsenal is too full in all its parameters. So here I come to the third very important issue, which arises from your question, in the application of the provisions. Look, for this particular case, which I myself saw in the press, and it seemed to me, there were further offences, if I remember correctly, which consisted of the illegal possession and weaponry, so in this case again we would have an auto-injury and the procedure would be followed. But with regard to the reaction of the individual citizen, it is clear that here we have a reaction under the law, because no one can argue that at that time when a man sees a man in his own home, he is not in extreme mental pressure, which forbids him to do as an average wise, social man, so that - what he should do? - to weigh to what point his defense may correspond to the attack he accepts. So, even if we had overcome the defence, this overrun because of this situation, the incident you described, had to be unpunished. Unfortunately, there are cases where there are no other offences, such as illegal armaments, prosecutors at the time of exercise or not of prosecution, show a disciplinary action, I would say, and exercise the criminal prosecutions, which, of course, result in a dismissal of most of the perpetrators in the light of the circumstances and the conditions that I have mentioned to you. The fourth, which I would like to say to you, is as follows: in the proposals made by the Legislative Committee, which has delivered its work and is currently being studied by the Ministry of Justice, there is nothing to differentiate the existing provisions of the Criminal Code or - I would say - at all events. Therefore, neither in my own intention is to change something, because I believe that there is no need for our legal arsenal in the formulation of the defence article, but also in the wording of Article overcoming, Article 23, and of the obsolete words that are described in it. It is one of those cases where the theory of law is absolutely identical to the case-law of the courts. I have identified the problem sometimes at the point of exercise or not of criminal prosecution. Here too, it should be made clear that if we have such a situation, which is fulfilled by the objective and subjective status of an article of the law, then there is no need for the prosecutors to do anything more than to exercise criminal prosecution. But when we have a special provision which excludes the charge, such as the question of overrun, because defence refers to unfairness, then there should also be abstention from the exercise of criminal prosecution. In conclusion, everything refers to the way in which these provisions are implemented in this crucial period of criminal prosecution. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-30-S1-commons.u6	The Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Cremastino, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-30-S1-commons.u7	Now, of course, as you said, Minister, it is right, but it still remains what the weak citizen feels today. Because crime with numbers may be about the same, as the Ministry of Civil Protection says, but inhumanity has clearly deteriorated. And we see it even abroad, as in Cyprus recently, etc. The citizen, then, when the government tells him that everything is fine in law, does not feel strong and sure when he sleeps at night. In other words, he would like there to be something that discourages, in a way, the raid inside his home during the hours when his family enjoys his peace and peace. That's undeniable. Now if you ask me if I have a proposal to make to you, I'm not the lawmaker. You're an excellent lawman. You can think of these and talk about them. It is, however, a matter of how the citizen feels today when he sleeps at night. The second question you raised what could really be done not only by the public prosecutors, but also by the police. So when you indulge a man who's over 80-90 years old and can't walk, you don't have to handcuff him and watch the whole world and television, because immediately the world turns against the police, to the government, to the institutions, to everyone. He tells you, "What's going on?", we need protection. Therefore, something can be done here too so that the police are responsible that if they see that the physical situation of the perpetrator, their perpetrators, is forbidden to think a little differently, they can be treated with human beings. This whole story, that is, was marked by the way the media pictures were given. Because if they did not give these images the media, there might not even be a question in the House. But these issues I think we need to look at them completely different from the spirit of the law, which is typical, the dry, and a little human, because - I repeat this - people do not feel safe at night at night when they are sleeping and this must concern you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-30-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-30-S1-commons.u9	Mr Colleague, I want to tell you this. You said in your dentext to see some legislation that discourages the perpetrator. I believe that this legislation exists in our Criminal Code. For when the defender is relieved of any responsibility because of the violent energy he accepts and even in terms of absolute peace and peace in his home at night, which may even be sleeped by man, you understand that that is exactly what the law says, that at that time at the time at great mental pressure, it is impossible for this man to weigh the real limits of defence. That is why the Criminal Code provides that this citizen remains unpunished when he self-determination. The second point you have raised is that it is the responsibility of another ministry, namely how the arrest is carried out on specific persons who have been defended against an unjust and violent attack, which they are subject to. But they also depend on the Ministry of Justice because they are the orders given and the competent prosecutors, which is why I shall answer you. I was also impressed by the way in which the prosecution authorities treated the particular citizen. I want to tell you that the arrest and the further arrest, handcuffs, etc., are done for a reason. There's a reason why the shooter won't escape and be led to the lighthouse.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-30-S1-commons.u10	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-30-S1-commons.u11	So when we have a man here who has spent eighty years of his life judging that the police have to handcuff him because he is a suspect of fleeing, you realize that this is where we have passed the appropriate measure. The competent prosecutors should also give similar directions, but also the Greek police, in a reasonable manner, to address these issues. In the end, the picture, which has been produced, was completely unfair to the legal framework that exists and which, as I said to you, Mr Colleague - and I thank you for your question - is completely protecting the citizen, who, on the basis of the law, exercises the right to defence, especially in such cases of attack and attempted robbery or anything else during the night hours in his home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-30-S1-commons.u12	Thank you both colleagues. The third, with number 1538/23-4-2018, timely second question from the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "An urgent need to increase the military service", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The fourth under number 1539/23-4-2018 topical question from the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the participation of military teams in a party course of the KKE", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Also, the first question under number 1545/24-2018, first question by the Deputy Minister of Attica of New Democracy, Athanasios Bourras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "An increase in the leasing values of simple-use saint" will not be discussed due to a workload of the relevant Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Akaterini Papanatziou. The sixth question under number 1518-17-14-2018, topical question from the H' Vice-President of Parliament and MEP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the problems of four million borrowers, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotou, on the grounds of a workload. The first under No. 1546/24-2018, topical question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, New Democracy, Isona Fotilla, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Revelations on CEDEFOP that expose the head of the Ministry of Health", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, on the grounds of a workload. The topical and urgent debate is closed. We wish you a good Championship with games and dreams! Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-30-S1-commons.u13	With the consent of the House at 18.29 minutes, the sitting for the next Wednesday, May 2, 2018, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda that has been distributed.
