ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-01-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering Parliament's special agenda for the election of Quaestors and Secretaries, I would like to inform you that the draft state budget for 2019 will be submitted within the day. The draft will be posted on Parliament's website. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Election of Quaestors and Secretaries in accordance with Rules 6 and 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. According to the above articles, as amended by FEK 92A-26-2017, three Quaestors will be elected, two of the first in power in a Parliamentary Group and one of the second in power in a Parliamentary Group, as well as six Secretaries, four from the first in power in a Parliamentary Group, one from the second to a power in a Parliamentary Group and one from the third to a power in a parliamentary group. From the first to the force of Parliamentary Group of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Athanasios (Nasos) Athanasios and George Panjas are proposed for the positions of the Quaestors and for the positions of the Secretaries. Anastasia Garas, Marios Katsis, Ioannis Sarakiotis and George Psychogios. Mr Constantine Koukodimos is proposed for the position of the Quaestor in the Parliamentary Group, and for the position of the Secretary Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis. From the third to a force of Parliamentary Group, the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR, it is proposed that Mrs Harula (Hara) Kefalidou be given a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, a little attention, please. The two votes are roll-call votes, they will take place electronically and Members will be asked to vote 'yes' or 'yes'. Also, please remain after the end of the first vote, as the next one will immediately follow. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened first for the Quaestors' election. [[VOCATIONAL TRAINING]] Ladies and gentlemen, as the vote is taking place I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-01-S2-commons.u2	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-01-S2-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House the result of a roll-call vote on the election of the Quaestors of this House. [[CHANGING PAGE]] For the post of Quaestors from the first to the force of the Parliamentary Group, Mr Athanasios (Nasus) Athanasios 177 votes and 3 'APARON' votes were taken. Mr George Panzas 161 votes and 10 "PARON" votes. For the post of Quaestor from the second to the power of Parliament, Mr Constantine Koukodemou received 182 votes and 1 'APARON'. [[Applause]] Congratulations to colleagues who occupy the Quaestors' office. Good power. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-01-S2-commons.u4	I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened for the election of the Secretaries. Ladies and gentlemen, let me repeat that we are also voting for 'yes' or 'yes'. Ladies and gentlemen, there are some in your seats for the electronic voting system. Those of you who want to take them with you and study them, so that we can be ready and read more next time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-01-S2-commons.u5	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-01-S2-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House the outcome of a roll-call vote on the election of the Members of this House. For the post of Secretaries from the first to power in a parliamentary group, Mrs Anastasia Gara received 185 votes and 7 votes in favour. Mr Marios Katsis received 182 votes and 10 a.m. Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis received 182 votes and 11 votes. Mr Georgios Psychogios received 182 votes and 11 votes. For the post of Secretary from the second to force, Mr. Ioannis Kefaloyannis received 168 votes and 7 votes. For the Secretary's post from the third to the power of Parliament, Ms. Hara Kefalidou received 171 votes and 4 votes. Therefore, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, we are all elected as candidates for the post of Quaestors and Secretaries. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-01-S2-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting with regard to the election of the Quaestors and Secretaries of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-01-S2-commons.u8	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-01-S2-commons.u9	With the consent of the House at 12.42' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, October 2, 2018 at 18.00, on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: only debate and vote at the outset, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: "Consolidation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the World Tourism Organisation (WTO) on the organisation of the 8th International Meeting of the POT on Tourism on the Silk Road".
