ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 29-11-2018 authorisation, the LEI's minutes of Thursday 29 November 2018, with regard to the vote on all draft laws: (a) Clear the State's State's Report, financial year 2016 (b) Clear the State's Balance Sheet, financial year 2016.’]] Before entering the topical and urgent debate I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 3 December 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 183/26-11-2018 by MP Kastoria of the New Democracy Ms Maria Antonios to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Great damage to the Greek State due to the non-translocation of the IOY Kastoria”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 17722-11-2018 of the Member of the Democratic Association of the PASOK - DIMARMAR M. Michael Jeleigh to the Minister of Civil Protection, on "Increased instability in Serres Law and the Serres Police Department has been subordinated". 3. The Question No 190/27-11-2018 by F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on "the problems of the General Hospital of Larissa". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 184/26-11-2018 topical question by MP Achaias, New Democracy, Jason Fotella, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: ‘Previous increase in cases and victims from the Western Nile virus’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 178/23-11-2018, a topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Should our state finally protect our fellow citizens from being troubled by unjust claims of the State, which are made by means of the Certification?" 3. The 188/27-11-2018 topical question of the Attica MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Finance about the "Agios Andreas Region in Nea Macri Attica and the illegal claims of the Church". 4. The 186/26-11-2018 topical question by MP Laconia of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Limit situation in the National Health System'. 5. The 191/27-11-2018 topical question by MP Aitolakarana of the Communist Party of Greece Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Health, on "Problems in the functioning of the Centre for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (KEFIAP) Amphichia". 6. The Question No 171/20-11-2018 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "For redundant workers of the Associations of Agricultural Cooperatives (ESA) Larissa, Elassonas, Farsalon". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 173/20-11-2018 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the assignment of real estate to a Public Property Company (ETAD) - Fund for the Development of Private Property of the State (TADE)". 8. The 175/20-11-2018 topical question by Piraeus II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "For the continuing murderous attacks of fascistoids against migrant workers in the municipalities of Acharnon and Phyllis". 9. The Question No 159/16-11-2018 by Independent MEP Mr. George Lazaridis to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Addressing responsibility for handling and developing the surveys in the Bulgarians". 10. The question by number 99/24-10-2018 of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need to increase military service". 11. The Question No 55/11-10-2018 by Congressman Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga" is uncontrolled. 12. The 2/1-10-2018 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "An essential violence was carried out by ELAS in the demonstration of Thessaloniki that took place against the Prespecies' agreement." REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 1722/19-9-2018 asked by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Giannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The feasibility and moderation of the transfer to the Overseas Department by demanding lenders of 51 state property in the Municipality of Pyrgos". We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We begin with the second with number 117/30-10-2018, a topical question from the MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMMAR Mr.Ioannis Manniatis to the Minister of State, on the subject: "Directly addressing the problems of Argolida GERFA - G.N. Franciscos – 2,000 producers, 400 and 700 “air” workers. This timely question will be answered by the Minister of State, Alexandros Flabouraris. Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I have asked you a timely question about the most important problem that concerns Argolida at this time. It is the risk of bankruptcy of the largest exporting company in the prefecture of the company ‘FRAGISTA’. And of course, every businessman makes his decisions, makes his mistakes, has his own course. What we care about from the point of view of the representatives of the citizens is that such a possibility will bring about an incredibly difficult situation of at least seven hundred producers in Argolida, around three hundred workers in these plants and about a thousand other two producers working with this company in Corinthia, Elias and other prefectures. So this is the major problem that concerns Argolida right now. I have to tell you that in hundreds of meetings we have made with the Argolida producers, the great anxiety is whether it is possible, in the context of legality and transparency and always in the context of the proper way in which the banking system operates, to find a way to ensure that there is a smooth development in this company. I only mention a few typical examples. First of all, we are talking about an entirely exporting company with a turnover of 18 million, which owes around 6 million and which, with about 1/3 if it is borrowed on normal terms, can continue to absorb oranges and mandarins. Right now it's closed, it doesn't absorb anything. This means that the orange price has fallen and the Argolida producers are completely despaired. What do we want? We want with cuts that the company will necessarily make, and with a good approach to this matter, the possibility of having a loss of about 30% of Argolida's exports to the citrus fruits. I want to hope that is perfectly understandable. Let me tell you, Minister, that, at the same time as our own initiative, workers, for example, have been mobilised, producers have also been mobilised, and I have also informed the Minister responsible for Agriculture, Mr Arachovitis. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u4	Good morning. Thank you, Mr Maniotis, for your question. I really think the problem not only for Argolida, but especially at this stage for Argolida and at this time, is very crucial. Of course, FRAGESTASS, which has been operating for fifty-three years, has been in a situation that has not inspired either the producers or the banking system, so that it can go on lending. A second point you know - and you have said it too - is that the government cannot interfere with a body which is private, but it should also be a socially sensitive body, such as banks, and force them by legislative means or by whatever means to provide working capital to companies and to a company such as Mr Francisa. A third issue concerns the major problem. The major problem for us is, firstly, the workers and, secondly, the producers who are being trained all year round and now come to get the 'flavours' they actually give for orange. I know that from the same experience. Even this year's production is in danger of falling into oranges or falling down and being destroyed if this is not the case. I made a practical contribution to the National Bank with which it cooperates. It is very difficult to deal with the problem. They consider that at this stage - as you know - there are problems in the administrative structure and financial structure of the company there is no confidence in the bank's side to provide the 2 million that they request. Nevertheless, the proposal that I have made, and I hope and believe that it will be accepted, is to give the money and to consult the businessman on certain guarantees. Firstly, the money to be given directly to producers so that this year's production can also be collected. And secondly, in cooperation with the bank again with investors to find a way - and there are many - we will not give them the money that the bank will give through producers to Francisa, to be able, when the oranges are sold, to go back to the bank. I hope and believe - and we must all press - that this solution needs to be implemented and as quickly as possible so that the oranges do not start falling and are being misused. This is what we are doing within the framework - as you said, and as I say - of the possibilities offered by the relationship between the banking system and the individual government. What we are looking after and I am also looking after following the responsibility which, as we know, I have taken over in the last month, is that everything should be within the framework of legality, transparency and, in no case, with intervention - as we have said before - political in nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Maniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I understand your speech as positive, and I fully understand the problems that exist and which I have described. I believe that such interventions that show an attempt to operate the country's banking system not only with the narrow, cold banking criteria, but also with social criteria - because the customers of the banks are the citizens, the producers - are in a positive direction. The second thing I would like to comment on is obviously that you and I would do the same for any other company, whether in Argolida or elsewhere, who has had such a problem. Thirdly, which is perhaps the most important. I fully agree - and this is my proposal - that the loan to be granted to the FRAGISTA should go directly to the producers to repay the debts that exist from the previous year so that the new year can begin. That is what I think it will be another guarantee on the part of the bank that the money will go directly to the beneficiaries. What I want to say to you, however, is that, according to the image we have, there has already been the necessary restructuring in the company, they have been expelled, in other words, those who are responsible for the company's particular adverse situation, and now the company with a specific business plan, which has also deposited to the National Bank, I believe it can document its viability because it has also made very serious savings for expenditure. So when we have a restructuring in the administrative part, a reduction in costs and a good will on the part of all of us to pay back producers and not to lose their jobs - Mr Minister, I repeat this - about three hundred employees in a company that is purely exporting, so I think it is extremely useful what we are trying to do on the part of each of us to do, namely that there is a possibility and that would be extremely positive for Argolida producers if today, with the seconds that you will take immediately, you could give us an even more positive step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Maniot. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u8	We must be, both you and the whole political system, very careful in relation to the insanity or intervention to the banking system. The banking system - it is not our debate - we know that tens of years ago had a substantial contribution to the country's debt, a debt which led to situations where Greeks had only lived in times of war. It is clearly the responsibility of the administrations of the banks and of the political system as a whole and the leadership of the country, which was at least very relaxed, to say so mildly, against the system. Now, as you know, it's completely different. Unfortunately, there is a behaviour on the side of the banks. I don't want to explain why. Can we say they put a mind on the oldest behavior? To say they're afraid of anything bad happening now, why do we watch and check and try to operate the banking system in terms, as we have said, and transparency and competition, and above all to operate on social criteria? Development is the main objective of the banking system, so that this country can actually come out of the deadlocks in which it was found. At the same time, however, banks should also have some social sensitivity, so that we can deal with these issues, such as, for example, seven hundred producers in Argolida and five hundred workers will not be on the road for 2 million euros, when we know that they were not two, but tens of times these two million and without guarantees. Francesco has guarantees here. I mean, really could the bank with another eye, like I said, and as you say, Mr. Maniatis, deal with it, so that the area can breathe and the people can rise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-three students and students and three educational attendants from the 3rd City School of Alivery. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Member, Mr Theodoros Fortsakis, is asking for a short-day absence abroad, namely in France from 4 December to 6 December 2018, for participation in an international meeting as a representative of the President of the New Democracy. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u10	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The second, with number 176/21-11-2018, top-stage question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, the Democratic Assent of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: “Appointing a new Secretary-General for Information and Communication”, will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the Member. The third, with number 189/27-11-2018, is a topical question of the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Problems to meet individual needs in firewood of the residents of Mykes in the Regional Unit of Xanthi", will not be discussed due to lack of responsibility. The Ministry of the Environment and Energy is responsible for this. The first under number 181/26-11-2018, the first question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Christos Dimas, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: “Absorbing the resources of the NSRP 2014-2020”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Deputy Minister Eftathios Giannakides, who is on a government mission abroad. The first under number 182/26-11-2018, a topical question by MP I Piraeus, New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The government is calling for a selective partition of municipalities with micro-participatory criteria, just before the municipal elections, causing confusion and inconvenience", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of the Interior, Alexandros Haritsis, who is on a government mission abroad. Also, the third, with number 121/1-11-2018, a topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Mixed Interdisciplinary Committee of Experts" will not be discussed. The fourth, with number 74/16-10-2018, topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "The planning for maritime education" will not be discussed. The fifth question, under number 53/11-10-2018, is a second question for the Piraeus People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaou Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: “Strengthening the Port House with a view to establishing an EOZ and an EOG extraction of hydrocarbons and natural gas”, will not be discussed. Finally, the sixth question, number 20/3-10-2018, on the second question of the Member of Parliament, of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Turkish challenging in the Aegean shall not be discussed. The topical and urgent debate is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 5/5/10-10-2018 by New Democracy MPs Konstantinos Skrekas, Konstantinos Katsafandou, Charalambou Athanasiou, Ioannis Antoniadis, Fotinis Arabatzis, Eleftherios Aygeakis, Apostolos Vessiropoulos, George Vlachos, Nicholas - Georgiou Dendias, Christos Dimas, Konstantinos Ach. Karamanlis, Theodorou Karaoglou, Georgiou Karasmani, Andreas Katsaniotis, Emmanuel Konsolas, Theodoras Bakoyannis, Christos Boukorou, Athanasiou Bourou, Ioannis Plakatakis, Christos Stagiotakis, Dimitrios Stagiotis, George Stylion, Ioannis Tsiara, Theodouros Fortsakis and Constantine Hatzidakis, to the Minister of the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "SYRIZA has turned PPC from a development pillar into a systemic risk to the Greek economy". The first honourable Member of New Democracy Trikalon, Mr Constantine Skrekas, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the topical question, which we have tabled thirty-five Members of the New Democracy, on an issue that is very important to the Greek economy, which concerns the situation itself and how we will finally achieve - our country - to bring and ensure sustainable and strong growth, which will create high-paid and stable jobs for our children, who are unfortunately migrating abroad. It is easy to understand that we cannot in Greece today have strong growth, unless we ensure a sustainable and profitable operation of the largest electricity company in our country, PPC, which is also the company that ensures and ensures that electricity is provided in our country at stable prices, at competitive prices, so that we can achieve what is to improve the welfare of Greek citizens and increase the standard of living. We are, however, saying in our question as a headline that the current government over the last four years has turned this basic pillar of energy security and stability into our country from a development tool to a systemic risk to the entire Greek economy and I will explain why, ladies and gentlemen, we are saying this. Because the result is that by the laws that the current government has passed for four years it has managed to transform PPC from a profitable company to a company, which in 2017 had losses of about 300m euros, if we remove the extraordinary revenues for services of general interest that had been involved in previous years. That is, in 2017, the company "intra", had damages of EUR 1 million for each day of its operation and, unfortunately, the announcement and evaluation report of the international rating house "STANDARDS & POOR'S", where according to the figures mentioned in this report, is shown to be the fact that in 2018 the company will "inside" approximately EUR 2 million per day, would be damaged by EUR 2 million per day. In other words, in 2018, it will present losses that can be made to all EUR 500 million, without, of course, calculating any exceptional costs and provisions for insurance. What has the PPC Government done today, however, and has effectively carried a fiscal crisis, has transformed it into an energy crisis, which is in danger of dragging the entire Greek economy and thus the whole of Greece and the Greek society? Firstly, it forced PPC - very quickly I mention - to lose 100% of its most valuable asset, IPTO, a company which had been valued at a total value of EUR 1.2 billion and lost 100% of the shares for just 300 million net revenues. Secondly, the current government has imposed on PPC, with an agreement that has gone with the institutions, with the troika, to lose about 40% of its clientele, 40% of energy revenue, that is to say, to lose more than EUR 1 billion in favour of alternative private providers, without getting a single euro. Thirdly, the current government has forced PPC to sell electricity in energy auctions, the so-called NOMEs, below production costs, so that private alternative suppliers can purchase the energy from PPC, which sells it below its cost of production and then compete with PPC itself, in order to get its best customers. And that is not all, but we have unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the traders phenomenon, that is, they are just offices that buy and sell energy at wholesale prices, buy energy from PPC below PPC's cost of production, which they sell through energy auctions, and then export this energy and profit from PPC's damage. Fourthly, you have imposed the so-called'supplier charge' to cover the deficit for the UN special account on renewable energy, which has so far cost PPC EUR 300 million. Fifth and last, you have moved to a 40% sales plan of PPC's lignite plants - the so-called deinvestment, as you have called it - which is such a catastrophic and inappropriate plan, which so far you have postponed twice the date for the final submission of binding offers, whereas PPC is supposed to - sell these factories, firstly, to solve the problem of regulatory, institutional, that is to say, not to have the monopoly on lignite production, but, secondly, and very importantly, because through this sale it expects to have some profit and revenue, which will help it from one way to close holes and the other to improve and rationalise its production. You have not set a minimum price. But not only this, you promote and promote the takeover by PPC of future losses, which will be done by the for sale by private investors. In other words, not only have you not set the minimum selling price, a reasonable price to see what the revenue will be, but you were trying to force PPC to take over 50% of the future losses that would be borne by the units that would be sold. Only a left-wing government and a left-wing Prime Minister could think of such a catastrophic plan for the largest - I repeat - energy company in the country and not speak. Of course, all I mentioned have cost PPC more than EUR 1 billion. That's not what I'm saying. The president and CEO of PPC himself says in an interview with the "PHIMMERIDA OF THE STATES", where he said that actions and decisions of two government ministers - the present and the previous one - have cost PPC 1.2 billion euros. It says, in particular, in its interview for EUR 574 million to cover the deficit of ELAP - ERAP's special account - EUR 315 million from the energy auctions, which I said is selling energy below costs and by an ADI, another EUR 73 million mechanism. So all this has a consequence for the company. What is the consequence? The consequence is that the company from a profitable and sustainable company, and a very profitable company in 2014, with an operating profit margin of EUR 1.5 billion for insurance premiums and a profit of EUR 1.5 billion and a net profit of EUR 137 million - I will put it in the Minutes to read, Minister, if you have not seen the 2014 results - in 2017, it has presented an operating margin of just EUR 500 million, which is reduced by 65% -70% and damages, except for the extraordinary revenues from PSOs, services of general interest, which were for the years 2012-2016, EUR 300 million. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Skrekas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And that's not all. It is apparent from the price of the share on the Athens Stock Exchange that PPC on September 8, 2014 had a market value of EUR 2,6 billion and an assessment by the rating house ‘STANDARDS & POOR'S’ three steps above what they are today, B plus, ‘B+’. Today, PPC has a stock exchange value of just EUR 283 million, 80% lower, and an assessment by the international rating agency of three steps lower CC plus, 'CC+', and with negative, as I will say below and I will prove, a perspective for its viability and functioning in the future. So, within three years you've dissolved the company, you've made it injurious, severely injurious. I'll tell you about 2018. And not only that, but also the reason, the operating margin of EBITDA to net debt, three and a half times that was in 2014, according to the «STANDARDS & POOR'S» report, has gone over ten times, which means, according to international literature, that this company is now part of the category of companies «Zombie», as international valuers say. Unfortunately, if we were only to say this as a Qualified Opposition, I would say that we should discuss it. However, it is also confirmed by the report on 'STANDARD & POOR'S'. So I'd say don't rush to celebrate what he's writing about. In particular, it mentions among many others the problems and concerns about the company’s operational prospects and its viability and that in 2018 the company will have an operating margin of approximately EUR 390 million, which is lower than the one it presented last year. This means that if something does not change, what we consider is that this year the company will show forecasts of uncertainties and extraordinary revenues, damages of around EUR 400 million to EUR 500 million. So the company enters with your own governance, with your own laws, with what you imposed on her about 2 million euros for every day it works. I am presenting in the Minutes the report on 'STANDARD & POOR'S'. [[At this point the Member, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, that's not all. If that were all, we could talk about it. But here, Minister, something else is revealed from the National Energy Plan, your plan for the national energy strategy, which you presented and announced, and which you made for consultation two weeks ago. What do you say there? I read on page 215, in the table mentioned in this report on energy planning. In 2025, ladies and gentlemen, you are from western Macedonia, says the Minister - and, of course, commits Greece and, of course, the company and PPC - that the production of solid fuel electricity from lignite will be ten thousand megawatts. In particular, he says it will be ten thousand twenty - three megabaters. This is very important, Minister. Listen to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u13	Yes, but tell us your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u14	I'll see you all, Mr. Comrade. I'm figuring out the sign contained in the National Energy Plan submitted by the SYRIZA Government. [[At this point the Member, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I refer to the production table of the industrial units, the lignite plants of PPC to see what they produced in 2017. What do I see? I note that the plant, which is to be disinvested, Minister, produced four and a half thousand major units in 2017. The new STOLEMAID 5 unit that we all want to complete quickly and enter the system, with about fifty breaks, you took sixty days of operation - equivalent days, as technicians say - will produce about four thousand yardsticks. All of this makes us eight and a half thousand son-of-a-bitchs. Tell me something: Two units of amphetene produced a thousand eight hundred yards now. The units of the Heart produced four thousand heifers and the units of Saint Demetrius produced six thousand heifers. In other words, a force of ten thousand son-of-a-bitchs with twelve thousand son-a-bugs will have to be shut down by 2025. It is obliged, in other words, to close all lignite plants, with the exception of one of Saint Dimitrios's 5 units, which produces about two thousand yards. So we have two thousand yards from unit 5 and eight and a half thousand yards to sell the individual there, POLEMAID 5. And all the other units should be shut down. I'm tabbling the lignite-fired plate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Screka, finish it up. You've been talking for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u16	I ask: Have you informed PPC employees about your plans? Have you informed the inhabitants of western Macedonia, the Peloponnese in Megalopoli, of what you have once again forced PPC to implement, which you have bound handmade with laws and ministerial decisions and led to self-destruction? Or once again are you trying to get through the problem to the next, kicking the can backwards, as we say? You will have to answer, Minister, if, with the design you have finally submitted, one unit of PPC can operate, with the exception of PTOLEMAID 5 and if PPC really should shut down, not only the units of Heart, which will be replaced by PTOLEMAID 5, but it should be closed within five years and all units of Agios Dimitrios, except for unit 5.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Comrade, you're done. You have a second and it's already sixteen minutes to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u18	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll just ask one question. What is the plan of the government that has been ruling this country for four years, which decides and legislates for PPC? What is the government's plan to rescue PPC, to ensure PPC's viability, and to enable PPC to become a genuine development pillar and to perform the role that we must at last and to have in Greece a genuinely strong growth, sustainable growth that will create high-paid jobs, stable jobs, not positions of 300 euros, and not to migrate our children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. Mr Antoniadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are really waiting with great interest for what the sectoral director, Mr Scrokas, asked about the National Energy Planning and what is going to happen in 2025. Finally, for all these questions, which we are asking, we are waiting for a clear answer. I hope that some light will be shed today. I am, of course, beginning with my special homeland, Florina, which has suffered everything in relation to PPC. Florina is facing a threefold crisis. I begin with the first one that is the economic crisis, which all of Greece faces. The second is because of the economic haemorrhage to Skopje and the third is because of the collapse of PPC. From what you can see, the region has a life relationship with the company and the consequences of a possible collapse will be devastating for both the region and the country as a whole. I only mention one clue. In GDP in the region before the crisis, PPC and, more generally, the energy sector accounted for 33%. Today, because of the crisis, because the rest of GDP has fallen, it has 40% of the GDP of western Macedonia. This 40%, i.e. the fictitious wealth, is spread throughout the country, but is charged and credited to western Macedonia. The result is all these years, of all the packages and the ESDP programmes having fewer jobs in programmes to combat unemployment and tens of millions of less than the ESDP programmes and a smaller subsidy to investment law and smaller subsidies to all rural development programmes. Generally, the region, because of PPC's presence, loses tens of millions, something that the rest of Greece does not know and may not have to know, because no one has informed it. So PPC owes the area. But how can she return them when you've turned it into a shell? PPC grants 740m euros per year the electricity supply of the islands. PPC subsidises the social invoice. It grants all the prefectures of the country, since in order to reach the current from Florina in Athens from 0.03 euros kilowatts now, it is almost tripled and reaches 0.09 euros. Nevertheless, Athenian and Larissaeus pay the same current at the same price as Floriniotis and Kozanidis who produces it. So, in this place, where Florina and Kozani and Megalopolis have offered so much to industrialisation of the country, they have taken the slightest. For example, in order to know the grand total, the region has received about EUR 130 billion of wealth produced in the region of Western Macedonia over the last sixty years. Not 10%, not 1%, but 0.2% took. There are, therefore, three serious outstanding areas in the area, which are directly related to PPC, which, if so, will not be able to fulfil its obligations. For the relocation of the Silvers, for four years little has been done. If the landslide had not intervened in June 2017, it would be almost nothing. The residents were right to say that they were in danger. There's been this slash. A year and a half has passed and there is still no vote on expropriation or the presidential decree. In Valtonera, the inhabitants are diagnosing everywhere that there is a serious danger. There are studies from the IGM, Mr. Lekkas, which states that the greatest fault lies with PPC. From PPC, however, there is an indifference from the government, there is silence. There's nothing, even one response. We ask you: will you do something? Is there a Valtoner issue for you? Is there a matter of refractory? I also come to a final point, on the issue of Achlada, where the private sector is active. We are not against the private sector, but there is also a state intervention and guarantee to find a golden incision. Is there going to be some kind of initiative? Last one comes A.S. Amyntius. We had a debate in committee. I don't think anyone would understand what your position is. I do not know if this is the case: yesterday you made a decision and extended from the seventeen-and-a-half thousand to the thirty-two thousand? If that were to happen, it is at least a small positive step which, of course, we do not know whether it is legal, irregular, illegal. In any case, however, it will cover at least all PPC executives in order to be able to sign and have at least a statutory function. What we want to ask specifically, however, is this: until the next ten thousand hours are exhausted, will the open competition, which wants at least one year? Is there a risk of recourse by some competitors? Mr President, if you allow me to extend and I will not speak again. I'll finish now. Mr Minister, our rapporteur has also said that there is a programme for the resolution of PPC. We don't know what's going on here after all. The views are ambiguous between the Ministry and the President of PPC. Means are said to leave four thousand workers. The president says that there is no such need. It says that it should, at least, recover EUR 1,000,000,000 from the outstanding debts, which, from a EUR 1,000,000,000 in 2014, reached EUR 3,000,000 today. And, of course, there are some of our fellow citizens who cannot pay and have the arrangements, and they have them right. Some, however, deliberately do not pay. It also provides for an increase in electricity tariff and, of course, for some charges to be abolished, imposed by the government and imposed by PPC. I also wanted to ask what is going on with Melitis Megalopolis lignite unit. What's going to happen? At the moment there is a temporary council, in which SYRIZA parties are involved - ANEL from the workers, who do not know exactly how a company needs to operate and, in any case, are on the automatic pilot. In conclusion, I should like not to be burdened with many questions, because I would like answers to those specific questions, for the Baltonera, the Amynteios, Achalada and the Anargyrus. The situation, Minister, is not a pomegranate. We have said from the outset - and I want to be clear - that we are interested in a sustainable and healthy PPC, which owes a lot to the Florina region and can offer a lot of electricity to the country. Unfortunately, your policy has so far shown you are walking without a plan. Literally and transportly drag and instead of solving the problems that exist, with your behavior and your indifference, you accumulate new ones. In everything positive that we hear from you announcing a concrete and clear measure, we are here to help. However, we are not going to allow further depreciation of PPC, which provides for suffering for the whole country. I would like to mention another serious issue here, and I am closing with it, Minister. There is also the issue of environmental restoration from the damage caused by PPC to the environment. There's no money. These are costing some billions. We must finally take care of that. If PPC goes bankrupt or if there is no, who will take over this cost of environmental impacts and restorations, which are of enormous importance for the areas in which PPC operates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Georgios Vlachos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a common place that the country's largest industrial company, the former state-of-the-art PPC, is currently walking on a dry edge, as it is in danger of collapse, causing enormous damage to the Greek economy. The financial data show that in just three years the company's operating margin has decreased by 64%, its stock exchange price by 84% - in just three years, I repeat - while its maturity has more than tripled. If that is not the case, Minister, then not the concepts have lost their value. The economic evidence, therefore, demonstrates the harsh reality. This, however, shows that the government is not concerned, as well as the PPC's appointed administration, which is also falsifying by declaring satisfaction. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the irresponsible, sloppy and turbulent manipulations of the government and the appointed - obviously - of PPC's administration on critical issues have led the company to the edge of the cliff. The evidence presented by previous colleagues and our rapporteur clearly illustrates that the company's tragic course is continuing accelerating and if something does not change soon, it will be fatal. For my part, Minister, I would like to focus on three important issues, on which we would like to receive answers. Firstly, in relation to the sale of lignite production potential, given that the relevant law does not provide a minimum acceptable price, how do you ensure that PPC’s for sale mines and production plants will not be divested in respect of an incomplete or even zero consideration? The current stock exchange value of PPC of 285,000,000 euros, compared with about 9,000,000 euros of fixed assets, only optimistic estimates do not allow. Also, given the serious limitations placed on PPC’s operation of lignite units - Amphintino, Heart, Agios Dimitrios - for environmental reasons, limitation of operating hours and others, have the necessary actions been launched by PPC’s administration to ensure that these lignite plants are operated during the country’s system critical period 2019-2022? If so, what are these actions? However, the European Commission's acceptance of 14 thousand hours of operation of Units 1 and 2 of Amyntheos is already exhausted, while in Units 1 to 4 of the Municipal Cardias they are exhausted at the beginning of the coming spring. Because your practice to date has shown that despite all your lionisations - in this case the Units will continue to operate up to a limit of thirty-two thousand hours - at the end you always comply with the requirements of the European Union, how will you protect the managers of the most stations from any criminal responsibilities and how will you ensure the country's energy adequacy? With regard to Units 1 to 4 of Agios Dimitrios, the criminal misery of PPC administration has led to tragic delays in desulphurisation projects as for Units 3 and 4 the award has not yet been made, whereas for Units 1 and 2 the notice of the relevant tender has not even been issued. Given that the completion of these projects takes more than thirty months from the signing of the contract - for the wet deposition chosen for Units 3 and 4 - the end date of June 2020, set by the European Union for the environmental upgrading of the Units, is impossible to comply with, and this will lead to their closure, which together with the sure delay in the start of Unit 5 of Ptolemaida beyond 2020 - perhaps in the first half of 2021 - will leave PPC practically without lignite production. It will work when only Unit 5 of St. Dimitrios is in operation. It will send thousands of workers to the stations I mentioned above and to the mines. It will lead the wider Ptolemaida-Kosanis region to marble and will dynamise the country's energy proficiency. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I am also going to make use of my dentistry to complete my proposal. Secondly, in relation to the sustainability of the debt, in 2017 PPC's operating margin was only EUR 520,000,000 and the net debt of EUR 3,950,000, which forms the ratio of net debt to EBITDA about 7,5 which makes the company unsustainable. Really, what is the estimate of the figures for the three years 2018-2020 and what actions do you intend to take to reverse this situation? How is the negative impact on the EBITDA margin quantified for the three years 2018-2020 by the mandatory reduction in PPC’s market share, due to the Memorandum of Understandings on the sale of lignite, lost 50% of the lignite production of the retail market? Is there a concrete and realistic plan to recover these losses with measurable results and, if so, what is this plan? Thirdly, with regard to overdue customer debts. They have become an avalanche threatening to drive PPC - if it has not done so - by bankruptcy. Since, at times, PPC's administration refers to the grand actions it allegedly has taken, but without ever quantifying their results, are there any tangible, measurable results of increasing the revenues from the management of the debts by the QUALCO company, which was entrusted with the provision of specialised PPC support services in the management of outstanding debts? If so, what is the increased rate of receipts so far and therefore the corresponding reduction in the due date? Is it true or not that the contract signed by PPC with QUALCO gives the latter the exclusive option of selecting customers with late payment, which will be dealt with, so that only what we call 'easy cases' and that the company will receive increased fees are chosen? The hard core, however, of the outstanding debts to PPC not only is not reduced, but is increased. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. Minister, today, on the occasion of the Civic Opposition, you must answer the specific questions that we ask you, as this is a very serious matter. For our part, what we can assure you of is that the destructive acts or omissions of those responsible are due either to failure or to feasibility. That is what I note that it does not mean any threat, so that you do not come to light easily. It is the responsibility of the New Democracy, the Professional Opposition, a party of responsibility over time towards society, since the company, the big PPC, as we have said and the figures show, as the figures show, by a leading company today constantly collapses and seeks a role for the next day. And because - and with this I will close - this morning, unfortunately, one of our fellow citizens at Camp Capotas lost his life, because the home that was staying had no power, finally choose what role you want for PPC. Will PPC make social policy or government? And why you turn the citizens against PPC every time it feels that it's wrong. In conclusion, will the government finally assume its responsibilities towards this top problem that we are raising today, but also everyday does the whole of society show up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Mr Christos Bukokouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u24	Minister, the situation of PPC, the largest energy company in the country, is not a matter of purely technocratic nature, which can deal with the debate today in the House, some discussions on the management boards of the company, or some discussions on government committees and ministerial councils. The situation in PPC has a footprint on the daily lives of the citizens and businesses of the country. This is the first time, Minister, which records such a massive activity of input companies for the wide consumer. We receive daily protests from fellow citizens that they are being harassed by collecting companies, even for debts of EUR 150 and 200, etc. This has never happened in PPC's history. Do not tell us that, on the one hand, we are accusing you of erupting the delays of EUR 3,000,000 and on the other, that you are using collector companies, because that is the result of your policy. The policy itself forced you to confiscate the collector companies, as Greek citizens do not have to face the burden of pressure on the public debts, on banks and on red loans as well as on insurance funds. The management of PPC had to get us to the point that we had collecting companies bothering Greek citizens every day. But that, Minister, is a clear result of the policy of your governments. Mr. Screkas explained very well. I will briefly say this: How not to put collector companies, which call and bother every day hundreds of thousands of households, when in just three years PPC's operating margin has been reduced by 64%, PPC's stock exchange value has been reduced by about 80%, while the amount of EUR 1 000,000,000 has been approached by the 3,000,000 euros. And as all this happens, you decide about the unprecedented. I think this has not happened at any stage of the country's economic history, but also worldwide. It is up to PPC - your government - to delegate half of the client list without any consideration. This never happened to a state-owned company, to a private company, to a private company. Never, no business administration has decided to transfer its clientele to zero in return. All businesses, of whatever form, Minister, are struggling and competing worldwide and in time to increase their clientele and when they decide to assign a piece of the pie to them, they do so in thick consideration. What exactly do you do? And it's not just your specific decision about lignite units, for which Mr. Antoniadis and Mr. Screkas raised their objections. In fact, however, Greek public opinion froze when it was informed a few months ago that while PPC is changing slowly, but stablely, to a business shell, your Government decides to buy a commercial energy company in neighbouring Skopje just before the referendum. Against a high price, it decides to buy another smaller seal in the neighbouring country with debts and no business prospects. Public opinion is freezing even more when it learns that this company belongs to the vice government of the neighbouring country. No adequate explanations have been given. You'll tell me, will PPC fall out of the 5,000 euros? No, but it's a very specific proof of how you manage things. And I will close my position, Minister, by saying again that what PPC's administration decides, that is, the government, have a direct footprint on both the country's production base and the citizens. I will give you two small examples of my constituency, Magnesia, to see that PPC is shrinking both into infrastructure and that are proof of the situation in which the company has arrived. Just a few days ago, the regional director of Lamia proposed the closure and transfer of the stadium of the TEN of the Almyros region, which is an area with a large production base, with large industries, too many craft industries and very important agricultural production. Of course, this proposal is made in attempting to reduce operating costs, but the interventions of the WTO organisation are necessary. In particular, when the citizen pays very precise energy more than that, it will take two and three hours to intervene in the remote areas, you understand that the exact services paid by the citizen have no recompense. You are forced to make such symptoms of operating expenses due to the state of the business. There are also works of minor importance, such as the association of the islands in general. I will give you an example of the northern Sporades, Minister, which is really the tourist pillar of the country and of the most important tourist destinations. Two years ago the study on the dumping of the fifth cable was pending in order to ensure the energy proficiency of the northern Sporades. He was delaying by ponding in some drawers of the Ministry of Trade Shipping, which had to give the relevant permits. I made a series of parliamentary interventions and unblocked the issue there. The money is there. The studies are there, but they are not approved. It has the money for the TEN to do the work, namely to hurt a fifth cable from Pelion, so that Skiathos, Skopelos and Alonissos are able to have energy, Skopelos and Alonissos, Minister, and we do not know what will happen next tourist season. I also note that while the project had to start this year, it is uncertain whether it will even start in 2020. Who assumes responsibility for ensuring energy proficiency, particularly in such areas, such as the Northern Sporades islands, which bring foreign currency to the country, Minister? This is one of the most important tourist destinations in the country and the services, the ministries are stalling, "removing" as if nothing were happening. Black out on islands have seen many times. But knowing that you are on limit points in terms of energy supply, having the money to be done and delaying studies and approvals in some ministries, this is irresponsible. Therefore, Minister, I close with the point that the production units are also looking with justifiable anxiety at PPC's course, because they depend on their presence and development on PPC's situation. I would therefore say that the fears of the New Democracy, as expressed by the Members' positions, are valid and that you do not have any more time. You don't have any more time for PPC either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-five students and students and two educational attendances from the Technical School of Lifelong Learning in Ioannina. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Konstantinos Katsafadas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a very interesting article entitled "The historic importance of the battle for PPC was written in 2014". There the author points out that exactly sixty-four years after the establishment of the company comes to the House of Law, which provides for privatization, better divestment of PPC's "pilots", the most productive units, lignite fields, hydroelectric plants, dams, a wealth that is extremely difficult to cost, because they want to get the production factories ready and free of mineral wealth, our national wealth, and indeed the price that can be compared to the cost of building a single hydroelectric power plant. They are airborne, airplanes, and investors. The author of that text concludes: "Today we are called upon to defend, not only the sacred right of workers at work, but also the right of the Greek people to maintain the control and ownership of a company which was set up by its own suffocation and sweat of its own sixty-four years ago. For all these reasons, it is a crime of economic and national nature that the divestment of PPC is and ultimately the dissolution of PPC." She saw Alexis Tsipras on TVXS. That's what the Prime Minister of the country said in 2014 on your European Parliament's website, Mr. Kouloglu. But what did the Prime Minister do today with PPC, where he would put his breasts ahead to save her from the sale he was saying? Within just four years he managed to cut it into a fillet, depreciate it and turn it from a basic pillar of development into a maximum systemic risk that threatens both workers and consumers. What has Mr Tsipras achieved with his policy these years? No, of course, not to sell it, as he promised his naive companions, but also to the citizens, but the very opposite, to deceive it and lead it to a vicious circle of losses and debts, to prepare hundreds of redundancies, while at the same time increasing tariffs. He even imposed a fine on the payment of the bill in a classic way. In just three years, ladies and gentlemen, PPC's operating margin has fallen by 64%. Its stock exchange value decreased by 84% while its maturity was more than doubled. Mr Tsipras' government has also forced PPC to lose 40% of its turnover, i.e. EUR 2 billion, without any consideration. Its stock exchange value on October 8, 2018 was almost zeroed to just 280 million euros, with the delays of its customers exceeding 3 billion taking into account the adjustments. As if not all of this were enough, the government is selling 40% of the company's lignite production without setting a minimum price, but also selling electricity through auctions below the total cost of production, much of which is exported abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, a feature of PPC's defiance of the government's policies is, among other things, the complaints of hundreds of citizens about power supply delays in both housing and business spaces and hotels. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will allow me, Mr President, to take time from my denture. So this PPC wanted SYRIZA to do, the one that - as the president that you have designated - you have charged more than EUR 1 billion with extra costs? Minister, the problem is not only the lack of financial management, which you have done to the company and the brink of bankruptcy that you are leading it. It's also the culture that governs you in her administration. And because I want to be specific, I'm going to ask you some specific questions that I expect you to answer: Is it true, Minister, that in the parliament head of the SYRIZA party organisation is the member of your central committee and the president's wife and CEO? Is it true, Minister, that PPC has now stopped paying the special bill for RES? Is it true, Minister, that what was written in the newspapers for the first time that, in order to renew its loans, PPC had to give a pledge to shares of its own property? Is it true, Minister, that now PPC, every month it works, does it cause damage to the order of EUR 60 to 80 million? Is it true, Minister, that the company mentioned by my colleague Mr Vlachos, 'Qualco', a company that took 20 million euros to raise PPC's supposed debts, belongs to a relative of the first-degree majesty of your government? In all this, we would expect an answer. Also, one last thing, Minister. You made a decision on the discount, which will be made by those who prepay the PPC tariffs. That's what had to be done. Everyone should have paid the genaris. Sadly, however, last year no one paid Genarris. We have come to pay in May and June with the result, Minister, that there will be enormous damage to PPC. Rumor is that 94 million were missing from the budget, from Mr Tsakalotos, and he had to in a technical way be able to find this gap to cover it. Also, Minister, I would like to ask you two last questions. Some time ago I was informed that a relative, again first grade of the president of PPC, was appointed as legal adviser to the company. It was also appointed as legal counsellor and the daughter of another candidate for the president of an insurance company, who you tried to bring to the House and become president and unfortunately did not take place because the debts he had to the insurer, which you would have put president, were uncovered. Minister, Mr Bukouros said 'EDS', the Skopje energy company, which you bought in such a period of time. The whole world is reckoning how to owe so much money to suppliers, to companies, how it is possible that workers who work subcontractively at construction sites and mines have not been paid and that you go buy a company in such a critical political period of time what it has to do with Skopje. These are the questions I ask you, Minister, not only to show you the deadlock you have led the company financially, but also to highlight the state-owned logic that you have towards companies. You do not belong, Minister, to the government and Syriza. It is an estate of the Greek people and should be guided and worked on the good of society, the good of the economy and the energy stability of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Christos Dimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I'll use my dentistry myself. Minister, PPC is in emergency. This is not the only thing the Vice-Presidents tell you, everyone who has a picture of the company's finances tells you, those who have a picture of the global energy market tell you, they tell you that even those who are recruiting you, the business's strategic consultants. In just four years, you have managed to convert a potential growth lever of the country into a systemic risk for the entire Greek economy. It is characteristic that in four years' time, you have succeeded - because this is a success - to zero the market value of the leading energy company in the country, from 1.91 billion, which was in October 2014 to just 280 million, this October! So we're talking about a 85% contraction, while according to official figures, customers' dues have been more than tripled. Instead of turning to a sustainable realistic plan for a critical development company of the country, which directly concerns millions of households and businesses, you are moving towards shadowy incomprehensible moves. As for example, the purchase of EUR 4.8 million from an injurious company in Skopje, 'EDS', which is a coincidence - to the Vice-President of the Government of Zaev, Mr Angeishev, with whom you signed the unacceptable Prespecies Agreement. Minister, I need an answer. Has there been any study justifying the purchase of 'EDS'? Otherwise, your silence, for so long, leads us to conclude that this is a suspicious transaction. We're not surprised. We will come back, be sure of that. And by this assessment, that you have taken the wrong path, it even advocates the study of Mckinsey that you hired as a consultant for the preparation of five-year business plans, which clearly points out that PPC is a non-sustainable business and needs immediate radical changes. As they highlight in their report, if you do not go here and now to a change in the strategic company, in 2022, in four years, that is, from now, PPC's operating margin will be reduced to EUR 330 million, when today only the company's payroll exceeds EUR 820 million. However, it is also the approach of Standard and Poor's. The international rating agency continues to consider the company to be fragile, expressing concerns about the long-term viability of its activities and its position on the market. What's he talking about? Beyond its particularly worrying economic factors, unless its dependence on imported fossil fuels and carbon price developments is reduced, it will face vital problems for its operation and will have to turn the mixture of energy production necessarily towards renewable energy. At this point I would like to raise another worrying feature. This is the rapid increase in the price of emissions of pollutants, which is now going beyond the limit that PPC President Panayotakis himself described as threatening the company's viability. More specifically, recently, rights prices have been around EUR 20 per tonne with forecasts for even higher prices in the coming years to be realistic, as in 2019 the European Pollutant Exchange will have less carbon dioxide rights in the context of European Union decisions on cleaner energy production. In simple terms, any country that does not focus on renewables and insists on polluting will pay more expensive costs. This factor is enough to ring red bells for PPC's future, since if you analyse the company's financial results in the first half of 2018, there is an increase in the expenditure on carbon dioxide rights by EUR 52.3 million for this period, i.e. before major increases in pollutant prices in the last quarter. Minister, PPC's future is worrying and the only ones you don't seem to be concerned about and conscious of the responsibilities are you. Now take responsibility. Proceed directly to a substantial restructuring plan. Consider the plans prepared by the previous government, the New Democracy, for the future of the company and with respect for taxpayers' money and the environment, take decisions. They need decisions on PPC and they need them immediately. Apart from abstentions that seem to be, you very much hope that PPC will not "slap" in your own hands. But you are trying to drug the future of the next government. I'm just going to tell you that this is not the attitude of the government responsible. It's exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr Dimas. Mr Kostis Hatzidakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u30	Minister, I saw you educate when the New Democracy points out that PPC is on a dangerous path. From 2014 until today, PPC's share has lost 85% of its value. What must happen to start worrying? What's got to happen? And even though this does not convince you, Minister, that the Stock Exchange at the same time - which also went wrong because of the terrible policy pursued by your Government - fell below 38%. PPC 85%. Shouldn't we see it? Does PPC have to lose 100% of PPC's value? Does it have to be closed so that the New Democracy can raise the matter? I say this because you often point out that we are destroying ourselves. And why don't we destroy the ELPEs? Why don't we destroy the E.R.D.? Because there is obviously a major subject that has the name PPC. Why is there the major issue? For you left our policy of small PPC - PPC 1/3 would be sold out in order for PPC to have a liquidity injection and to be able to make its investments - and you went to half of PPC, that is, essentially PPC loses half of its customers, half of its turnover, in return for zero economic value. Unprecedented and inconceivable! PPC loses customers and doesn't put a single euro on its fund! If I'm wrong to tell me exactly where PPC's receipts are and why we haven't seen them all these years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u31	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u32	That's your dogmatism. In order not to apply the model that we promoted and to have a fig sheet in relation to your previous beliefs, you said "we want to show how important the public sector is and how important PPC will remain" - supposedly - "in the public sector". Yes, sir. You did not, however, have the same sensitivity to other undertakings in the energy sector. While, in other words, you are supposed to be prisoners of PPC, why did you - and you did well - give 66% of the DESA? You cannot be with the white and black and everything, and with their opposites, because in the end, you end up being a government of nothing and the cost is paid by the Greek people. I would like to make a partial comment, because it has not been made by the previous colleagues, concerning PPC RENEWABLES, which is a subsidiary of PPC, which is going well and which has a future, because renewable energy sources have a future in the country. In the past few days, the CEO, appointed by you, has resigned, Mr.Ilias Monocholas, who resigns said that because you want to merge PPC RENEWABLES with PPC the risk of the merger is that PPC will not develop renewable energy sources. What did he mean? She meant she would not keep her autonomy within PPC's wider group "PPC RENEWABLES", but break into the individual Directorates-General. Therefore, next to the inconsistent financial problems that PPC faces, next to what Mckenzie has to answer, because it is PPC's official consultant, there is a problem with renewable energy sources. Minister, you can no longer follow his policy "don't worry", because the PPC consultant Mckenzie says that at the end of this policy, PPC's payroll policy, can lead to staff redundancies and tariff increases. You have an obligation to make clear about all of this, as you are obliged to put another issue to which you have not given clean answers as government, you are pretending that it does not exist. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will also use the time of my dentistry, Mr President. I am referring to the DEPA-Laurentiadis scandal. You have given an awkward answer in the past few days claiming that the debts of PPA had also increased over the previous governments. In fact, I should like to accept this in order to facilitate the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u33	Oh, no. That's how it happened or didn't happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u34	First of all, why is the CEO, Mr. Kitsakos, being prosecuted by justice, and not by previous CEOs? Secondly, will the government tell us whether it is true or not that it has been attempted on your day - and that is why Mr Kitsakos is being persecuted - to make an illegal exchange of property for debt compensation between the PPP and Mr Laurentiadis' business, an illegal property exchange which they committed to money laundering? Even more will anyone tell us why these properties were valued by PPC at EUR 90 million, while their official previous valuation was EUR 9 million? All you look at me strange, Mr. Minister, there are in the case-file.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u35	Did any of this happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u36	He's been persecuted by the CEO that your government has placed. And the CEO, Mr. Kitsakos, who your government has placed you, says, "I didn't do it, they told me Ministers." Although you, Mr Stathakis - I want to be clear with you - have driven Mr Kitsakos away and obviously had some reason to drive him out, you did not wake up one morning and said: 'I do not like the nature of Mr Kitsakos and I do, but there are five more colleagues in the government who have to give clear answers. There is a prosecution against a SYRIZA commander who was placed as CEO in PPC for attempting to illegally exchange property. There is a public position on this SYRIZA strain that he was taking orders for this illegal action by six ministers. You can't silence much more you can't move the finger in the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the Educational Programme "Working Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-three students and students and two trainers from the 1st Municipal School of Agia Paradise. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] It is also known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIZELOS" Hall, twenty-three students and students and two teachers attending the International School of Athens. Welcome to the Greek Parliament, guys! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor, Mr Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u38	In particular, to Mr Hatzidakis answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u39	I'll answer everything, yes. New Democracy isn't ruined! Let's get this straight. Fourteen months ago, on September 29, 2017, we were here again to answer the then timely question about PPC. PPC was then on the edge of bankruptcy. For bad luck, however, PPC was upgraded this week. And as you read this "fly" upgrade of PPC by Standard & Poor's, you cannot avoid some fundamental remarks. Why, does he upgrade PPC? Firstly, because the Greek economy is improved and when the Greek economy comes out on the markets, PPC will take two steps. Secondly, because a significant part of the debtors' debt is recovered. Thirdly, because PPC has a strategy that it implements in 2022. Fourthly, because there is an improvement in the management of ELA and other unstable factors, which have created instability in the system and so on. Either way, it completely overthrows this destructive reading you're reading. But I want to make it straightaway. Your problem isn't PPC. Your problem is overthrowing the plan that the government inherited for the whole energy sector. Today the overthrow of your plan - which we inherited, and we did not implement in energy any of your plans - and what we have implemented, are judged by the result. So you will allow me to introduce a brief introduction to what was the program that we received in 2015. Full privatisation of all DESFA, IPTO, PPC and IPTO energy companies. That's what we received. So 66% if we sell to IPTO, 66% to IPTO, full privatisation of PPC in total, 17% of PPC's shares to lose the majority of the public and small PPC - I remind you that 30% of PPC's production potential is tiga in hydroelectrics - market share minus 30%, so at 60% PPC, plus NOME to lose an additional share from retail. So from 60% plus the additional share of NOME, where are we going? Somewhere in 50%? So we receive a PPC in your plan, which would produce the 2/3 of its productive potential - 50% of energy produced today - would be at 35% - and would have a market share of 50%. And it would be private. That's what we received. What did we do, from the result? The privatisation of the DESFA, which you had advanced with the Azeros and the 400 million, has been cancelled. You told us we'd never find 400 million again. Right? That it was an excellent privatization. It was violating European rules, it was not going through Europe. We canceled privatisation and reclaimed it - we had no possibility, 66%, for our contradictory personality - and the ECU 400 million in eighteen months became 535 million. The shareholders who entered are European shareholders of companies, which are active in Europe, of the most important, and the 34% rights have dozens of vetos that did not have the previous privatisation. In other words, the state has a strong veto on investment, labour and dozens of other issues. We've completely overthrown him. We decided not to sell the majority of the shares. We decided to keep the majority state, find a strategic investor with 25% and find the Chinese 'STATE GRID'. This IPTO, which we prisoners have done in the past two years, has made record records. The interconnection of Syros - Mykonos operates, the small interconnection of Crete, which was signed by the contract, the great interconnection of Crete, the completion of the works of interconnections with neighbouring countries, the great work in the Peloponnese and so on. This IPTO, which we kept as we kept him, today, with all the financial and technical potential of this scheme, produces the works at the rate that produces them. Let's go to DEPA. We were told in PPC "full privatization". DEPA has the gas infrastructure and the retail market that participated in Athens and Thessaloniki. There we were negotiating with the troika, and we said 'children, our principle is very simple. The infrastructures will be kept public in natural gas, electricity, etc. and the market will be opened’. The commercial segments, the commercial part of business, the energy markets have been opened. We've opened them too. We have liberation of natural gas (chodrical) and liberation of natural gas (retail), electricity (chodrical and retail). They are liberalised markets, but infrastructure will remain public. And that plan went through. Today, DEPA is divided into infrastructure and a commercial piece. The infrastructure will remain under public control and the commercial piece, after the successful acquisition we have made and with the "SHELL", will acquire an additional value, so the commercial segment will be successful when it is sold. I'm on PPC topic, too. We said about DESFA, we said about IPTO, we said about DEPA, and we went to PPC. We abolished the plan "little" PPC, 17% NOME, short-term record lending. Why are PPC's loans off? When did PPC borrow 5 billion? Was it a long-term loan? No, five years. 5 billion and "slash" one after the other, in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. That's a great policy for a company. So for this, PPC which - I repeat - we have received under these conditions a project that we have sought to stabilise PPC, adapt to a new environment and, at the same time, to create conditions - I repeat - to improve its performance at all levels. Let me start with the crucial issue of loans. The company was overdebted and incapable of a five-year horizon, which was loans - exceptionally short-term for such a company - to tackle the refinancing problems of the loans successively. We've done two things so far. Firstly, PPC's lending has fallen by 1 billion, you recognize it in your question. It's not a small achievement for four years from the 5 billion to come down to 3.9. And secondly, the 3.9 were refinanced in two consecutive phases with long-term lending. So, as far as its financial situation is concerned - the last one left is April - it will be refinanced, because 1.3 billion has been refinanced - the SNB GLOBAL says very well in its assessment. And why does he bring her up? Because she restructured her loans and went beyond the last shot in April. So, financially, we have dealt with the problem of borrowing. We are now going to the problem of'small' PPC and what we have done. The "little" PPC has been abolished, why? Because hydroelectrics are two things at the same time. Firstly, PPC's presence in the RES is 9% of energy production, etc., very important and PPC's most profitable, extremely profitable. That's it. Lignites are like this, gas is so PPC has a capital, where hydroelectric costs five euros a kilowatt, instead of 45, 60 etc. So this stayed there. You told us 'we will not achieve it with the institutions','hydroelectric power will be sold'. I was hearing about it like the cutter and all the others I used to hear from New Democracy, that the program would not come out, that the evaluation would not be closed, that would not pass, that won't pass. It went through and through the institutions something for which you have brought a great deal of responsibility, that the country was condemned to the European Court of Justice for the lignite monopoly and for which no consideration had been taken, with particular rules of competition that were well known in advance. They had done no action in this regard. Greece was convicted, the country was convicted. And he says there should be a second player to lignite, because PPC cannot have a monopoly. Only for lignites said it, he said it for nothing else. And that's what we're doing. So, on the issue of production, etc., of lignite disinvestment, I will recall once again to avoid the argument that the law says that deinvestment has not set a minimum price, but the law refers to the fair price to be valued by these units, under which PPC has the right to refuse the sale. Therefore, the law is clear and I wonder why you are reintroducing this argument, since it refers to the fair price assessment, without the legislator setting a minimum price in advance, which he also ignores. So patience in this matter too. We are now going to help and adapt PPC to a new energy environment. The fact is that the energy sector has been transformed over the last three years. The environment is completely different. Firstly, the country has a national plan for 2030. I'm looking for the rules he's moving with. So we have a clean route by 2030 -- very clear -- which says, by simply Greek, that we need to double the RES. Whatever is withdrawn from lignite closes the life cycle, each lignite unit is erased and replaced by RES and in the middle we have the natural gas, which will stabilise the system. Therefore, our 2030 strategy, which, in order to achieve the objectives that we have agreed on in all European countries, 32% production from RES in total consumption and 32% savings, is clear. We're going to an energy mix, then, in which the RES from 29% today will go to 56%, lignite will retain 17% of our lignite mix of 2030 and the rest is natural gas. What's the difference between 17% and 2025? I can tell you exactly what it includes. As you know, the withdrawals made by 2030 are: Megalopoli, III, Agios Dimitrios I and II. The rest of them are Saint Demetrios. You erased them from 2025, but they stay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u40	You erased them. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u41	We heard you, too, listen to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u42	The hearts, as you know, are to be withdrawn, and Amydino I and II, unless upgraded, which fits in 2030. So the scenery in 2030 is clear. 17% obviously fits in the new facility, in Ptolemais, in Agios Dimitrios, in Florina, and one unit in Megalopolis, which exists on the horizon. So there is no ambiguity in that. So we know where we're going, how we're going to produce, what we're going to produce and what we're going to do. Secondly, the energy market has obviously changed and the model in which we are going to move is the target model, the common European energy sector identification system and, of course, the start of the energy stock exchange in June 2019. I am surprised with the New Democracy, of course, because all the laws that we have brought about these transformations in the energy sector are voting on them. There is no law on these institutional reforms that he does not vote for. So the catastrophe is inconsistent with you coming, you vote for all institutional changes and then you go out and say the pillar falls, PPC falls, the economy collapses, the universe. So make a decision because these are institutional reforms. The energy market will therefore operate through specific rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u43	You're more right than New Democracy! You're more right than right!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u44	Is there an interest in a more general debate?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u45	I repeat, apart from the fact that there is a clear strategy, in which we are committed as a country and we will follow it, we have, anyway, a clear path. Institutional changes are being completed. They are almost complete in their entirety. Let me mention the most important ones. The introduction of the mode of operation of energy markets, energy stock exchange, the way in which RES operates. We abolished the system with the guaranteed prices. There are now prices which are market-forming for RES that will be made and doubling their presence. The process through which the institutional framework is shaped is further strengthened by introducing a third player, apart from the large wind companies and the photovoltaics small and medium-sized ones, by introducing the institution of the energy communities. Therefore, a large part of the RES will go to a local cooperative, decentralised consumer production of all kinds and types. Therefore, the institutional framework within which we are moving is also well-formed. Now, what does PPC have to do in this very different environment? It's obvious, I'd say. Not only do we have national planning, not only have we shaped an institutional framework of about clear and clear rules, but PPC has a plan. I'm still looking for the plans PPC had from time to time before 2015. I haven't made any library with her plans. I'm sorry to say, I don't know how you were running the company at the time, but I repeat that I haven't built a library for PPC's designs and strategies before 2015. Now we have a study and others, because we also have valuations, analyses and have a small library, but we also have the study of MCKINSEY, which says a clear strategy: How will PPC adapt to an energy field where, I repeat, its market share will inevitably be commensurate with the market share of European competition rules. PPC cannot continue to produce 50% of the energy, to wake up in the morning, to get all the energy produced in the country from RES, from private individuals, from gas, because it has 90% in market share and then the New Democracy comes and says that NOME sells them below costs. What's the cost? The limit value of the system in which PPC buys energy from others? The 70 euros a kilowatt now? Or PPC's cost as a producer? NOME don't put her in. PPC does not have more than EUR 45 production costs. Is it? Decide. You get carried away sometime. PPC has a patriotism in its ads, but it's advertising. We cannot take seriously that I sell less than costly. I sell below costs because I buy energy from the market at the limit price. As a PPC producer at another level and that is why NOMEs are calculated. The NOME price is not decided on the basis of the market limit price. Oh, no. You don't understand the difference. That is why I remind you. So we have a process in which PPC is being released. It closes the cycle with the disinvestment of lignite units, the NOMEs leave, enter a clean landscape where PPC competes on the basis of its costs and its operation, just as it is reflected in the strategic studies. At the same time PPC is called upon to change the mixture of its energy composition, i.e. to expand to the RES. This is the common place and the main edge of the strategy. I would add and add services - steps are already being taken. The market will change, sell electricity and natural gas and dozens of other products and services - and of course extend to neighbouring markets. This PPC, at least as it is captured and is the strategy of the company and the strategy suggested by all these exhibitions, I would not say that it is a precipitation pole and anti-developmental for the Greek economy. A PPC, which has a strong presence on the Greek market, has developed the RES, has combined its services in the domestic market, extended to neighbouring countries, would you call it a bankrupt and destructive PPC, which brings the burdens and the Greek economy together? It's a long way from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the model Gymnasium of the Zomable School of Ioannina. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, after consultation with the other Members of Parliament, it takes the floor first of all because it has an unsuccessful task, the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Integration Mr Ioannis Maniotis. Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, I would like to thank both my colleagues and SYRIZA and the New Democracy for giving me their position, because I have another obligation. Minister, it is really a pleasure to oppose you. It requires special intellectual abilities, because no one has to go beyond a mountain of half the truth - I start a little soft, not to lie, I say half the truths at the moment - to overcome a political paranoia approach and to try to find truths. I will speak with you today about two major scandals. The first scandal is PPC's scandal, with which the SYRIZA Government removed, detained by Greek citizens, who are the owners of PPC, EUR 7 billion. I'll record one by one, and then I'll talk to you about the DEPA-Laurente scandal. So let's get started. Minister, when you took January 2015, you received a PPC with 2.5 billion on the Stock Exchange and reached 300 million. Also, you received one PPC in category B in the assessment of 'STANDARD & POOR'S' and became - until three days ago - category CCC+, i.e. four categories below. Uh, don't tell us and we'll applaud you for the fact that the day before yesterday, you brought up a charge from the grapemine you had thrown it up and you brought it up with a little stepping stone and there are two other categories left to reach PPC where you received it in January 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, the "small" PPC, for which I am proud, because I was the Minister responsible for tabling this bill, was the largest administrative intervention at the level of public enterprises because it would bring 2 billion euros to the PPC fund. And what would PPC give? It would give 30% of turnover, wage costs, debts, loans and received EUR 2 billion. And because scriptta manent, I'm tabling the law on "little" PPC for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Tsipras annulled him. Against that, what did he sign? He signed the lousy Memorial of Tsipra on August 14, 2015, with which he says on page 1029? PPC's retail and wholesale market share will fall below 50% by 2020. I'll tell you what this is about. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What does that mean? It means that from 90% of PPC had to fall below 50%, i.e. to lose 40% of its income, turnover, of its clients. What does that mean in money? It means another 2 billion loss of revenue from Greek citizens and PPC. Make the sum a little: We have 2 billion lost from the “little” PPC and 2 billion more that you had to lose against a zero price. We're on. Mr. Kammenos, in January 2015 - Mr. Kammenos is your partner, you are colleagues - said this to threaten us: "Who will stay out of prison when justice decides for those who have decided on PPC?". That's what Mr. Kammenos said in 2015. Let's go to the third theme: electrical circuit interconnection. We have lost because of the delay in receiving the project with your responsibility - a project that we commissioned - two years. How much is the loss for Greek citizens? More 150 million euros. And Mr Tsipras, when he opened it, did not have the political eloquence to say 'is a work of others and I deliver it with two years' delay.' So, it's 4,150,000,000 euros. How much did PPC earn in 2015 and 2016 from cheap oil? Based on PPC’s balance sheets in 2015 and 2016, it won 800m euros. Did it reduce the electricity price? No, of course not. How much do we get to now? We reach 4,950,000,000 euros. All this is the people's money you didn't give him back. I'm on it. Fifth: electrical interconnection of Crete. To get to know each other, I am tabling the plan that you received 2014-2023 for the completion of the major association of Crete in 2020. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now you say '2022'. Do you know what you're saying? It is 400 million and 400 million euros the loss you say we will have. You owe us another EUR 800 million for the two years to delay the great connection between Crete and Crete. It's your responsibility, but PPC is not your property. You're the temporary managers. What does Mr Hatzivadis say, the President of the Southeast European Institute of Energy, on 6 November 2018, on the small interconnection of Crete? "The first phase includes the interconnection of Crete - Peloponnese with two submarine cables. It is a desperation solution because of the delays in the large interconnection." I submit the relevant document. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To close with Crete, which I would like once again to stress that it is in danger of leaving it without power, of having a blackout, now we also have the conflict between IPTO and the Government with the European Commission, which the Government does not want the Israeli-Cyprus - Crete - Attica. I shall put forward the relevant document showing the conflict. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am very interested to see who will pay the EUR 250 million that we expect as Greece for the electricity interconnection of Crete - Attica if Europe does not approve this programme. I add EUR 250 million, and we have reached EUR 6 billion. I'm done. To reach the number of 7 billion euros, with the Panayotakis Declaration, Governor of PPC: "Stathakis and Skourletis have damaged 1 billion. EUR PPC’. I submit the relevant document. To close with PPC, I will give three examples. First, this is political surrealism. The government sells the three lignite plants of PPC and what does it say? I do not know when the world market has heard this, but it says: 'Come on, buy 'bir' rather than' and we will be part of 50% of the damage'. And the committee goes out and says: "Children, you didn't understand. Who will oblige the Greek State to participate by 50% in the damages of whoever private purchases the three PPC factories?’ "Reinvestment: The Community does not accept PPC's participation in the losses of lignite plants." I submit the relevant document.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Maniotis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u49	I shall finish, Mr President. Now, you're lying, too, though. You told us in public statements that you received a deficit in the RES account of EUR 800 million, that is, EUR 0.8 billion. Minister, March 2015, Monthly Special EIA Account, LAG, page 7: ‘Cumulative deficit of EUR 166.670.000’. Not 800m euros, which you say. Please, at least make it right. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And to finish with PPC, because I hear many times and it's annoying lies, which Mr. Tsipras also used to say, that is, Mr. Tsipras doesn't see cages outside the Herod Attica and lures and decent ministers. You're telling us you're making for the first time energy planning. March 2012: ‘National Energy Design’. He's still posted on your ministry's website. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. "National Energy Design, Road Map for 2050. March 2012’. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There is also an update in 2014. ‘National Energy Design’. A total of sixty-five pages has been delivered and has been delivered to the CAPE since January 2015. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. I'll finish with the DEPA-Laurentiadis scandal. Things are serious here, it is a matter of justice and it is mainly a matter of democracy. We've got a regular plunder plan for the DEPA. They got post-modernised checks. Mr Stathakis was right to expelled until recently as CEO, who had been appointed by the government of Mr. Stathakis. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] The man, however, held a press conference and said something very simple: “Children, I am not guilty. I was talking to five ministers of government and getting directions from the government. And take this e-mail and take the other e-mail." Do you want me to tell you something? I do not hear an answer from Mr Tsipras about a party official involving five of his ministers, and I do not see any reaction from justice. Excuse me. When there is a cyber scandal, when it has been prosecuted, when the Economic Police in the offices of the DEPA, when it is obvious that society is making a living game with Laurentiadis to exchange 80 million debts against real estates costing only 9 million and doing "hard" that it had committed them in 2014 - not on your own government - I ask the government and justice calmly, simply: This persecution after the statements does not need enrichment and with the statements of the persecuted man? The government does not feel the obligation to answer the citizens what is happening?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Maniatou, you're short.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u51	Do you know why I'm saying that? Because the dossier after 15 years, which it remembered, came without delay, because a convicted 16 years said 'I think, I think, I have the assessment that Simitis could know', the Prime Minister of Europe, the reforms, EMU and the entry into Europe of Cyprus. This file comes to the House without delay. The dossier involved in public statements by five Ministers, the whole of the Maximos Mansion, does not need to be dealt with with with a corresponding response from Greek justice? However, even worse, because the issue of democracy is topical, it is this: the government does not feel obliged to give an official answer what is happening with this blatant DPRK scandal - Laurentiadis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u52	Please, keep the time. Mr Dendias, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u53	Minister, head of an important ministry and sincerely I feel the need on behalf of the New Democracy to apologise for consuming your time and bringing you here to respond to things that are obviously mysterious, fantasy of extreme opposition, while you and the government you serve have done a brilliant job. It is obvious that the country and PPC, which we are discussing today, is being driven through the "Ilias Avenue" to the paradise of capitalism, where the money is being disbursed from its funds and is indeed, as you have quite rightly analysed here earlier, the engine of the future Greek economy, capitalism and socialism, which, under the presidency of Alexis Tsipras, will lead the country in the 20th century! What are you talking about, Minister? Forgive me. What are you talking about? You're sympathetic, you've got a loose style, we can go for a lift, we can go for a bucket, we can go get some cigarettes! But what are you telling us here? I want to understand. Let's start with PPC. We are talking about a company which has lost 84% of its stock exchange value. You're telling us about the loans. Loans are integrated and are shown in its stock exchange value. So what are you telling us? On your day, on the days of your government, it has lost 84% of its value and you sit here talking to us, not you personally. You guys don't move our fingers. I'm honest with that. You're noble and relaxed. We talked about it before. Your government, however, tells us a lot of nice and cute things as if nothing had happened and offended our intelligence. In what way? After driving from ‘B’ to ‘CC minius’, you get a small upgrade and say: ‘O triumph! Today it is being upgraded.’ What are you talking about? What are you talking about, really? Why do you come and tell us these things? Why don't you make better use of your time? Say you have a coma! Stay at your ministry! Do something more pleasant at the end - end! Ladies and gentlemen, there is an overall situation here, which really hours - hours should lead us to analytic approaches to the political phenomenon called SYRIZA - ANEL government. Because the simple political approach or - if you like - the approach which anyone with a weapon is trying only with any experience of politics and simple common sense leads to the absolute deadlock. He can't understand what one says. I have already heard, for example, the Minister to speak on the issue of IPTO. And what did he say it was the great thing about IPTO? The linking of the Cyclades! But who started this story and who delayed it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u54	Crete!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u55	Wait a minute. I sincerely am pleased about one thing, and that is when Mr Stathakis can say anything else, but civil courtesy has - he is forced to interrupt you, it really means that things about the government are not going well! So let's go back to Syros. You're late for the Cyclades connection or haven't you been late for it, yes or no? Another government started it and not yours, yes or no? Honest words, clean words. If another Minister of another government were to do for a project that was completed and inaugurated on his day - he was inaugurated on your day, but he was inaugurated on another government, another design, other ministers - would at least say that this project is an estate of the Greek people and so on. He would not go "sold" to the National Representation as a vindication of the existence of his own government, who neither planned it nor praised it at the beginning and simply happened to be completed during her life and to inaugurate it. Who are you selling these to? Even natives in Papua New Guinea would not listen to what you say and would not welcome them! Are you telling us about Crete? But you have been told before that Crete, as is well known and clear - I do not use private talks but, if you remember, I had asked you once in private - is delaying. It was known that there were differences. What are you talking about? Are you telling us there was no design? Really? Wasn't there planning in the country? Seriously, to understand, ladies and gentlemen, what happened, the country was being dismantled and suddenly a serious, constituted government appeared in 2015, which took all the issues and proceeded rapidly to its designs, partitions, demarcations, all of them? And that's what we see today? Honestly, he's completely out of common sense. You told us about the privatisation of the CNG and that you achieved a better price. Did you achieve a better price? Would you like me to sign this? You've achieved a better price. Well done! On the basis of what programme? The privatisation of 66% of the shares, which you were accused of all the rest of the time. In other words, the only real and positive thing you have told us here is one thing that is based on a theoretical approach and the perception of another party, which you condemn all day and night. You can't tell us 'We took more money because we sold 66%, but in all the others that you would sell 60% are capitalists, slaves of capital, miserable, bad guys'. What are you talking about? In what logical order do you connect and give up these things and come and tell the National Representation? You know, ladies and gentlemen, the weather is over. You want to understand that? Your government's days are over. Your Government has an essential obligation to present to the National Representation and the Greek society a set of answers for its actions and not anointings and confusions of real, fantastic, neo-Surrealists, which make no sense at the end. We can't look at things like that anymore. No more these fairy tales! I come to the matter of your absolute silence, deafening - I dare say - your silence, on the subject raised by the Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Hatzidakis and Parliamentary Representatives of other parties, on the issue of the IPA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u56	Next Friday we have a question in a week!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u57	Excuse me, if I understand correctly, I mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u58	Will you come next Friday?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u59	Now you have not tabled a question for thirty-seven Members?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u60	If I understood correctly, I would even welcome the answer, after the third, because the question is the third in a row to the Minister. So, after three questions, what does the Minister say? He answers us: 'Children, wait, I will come next week to tell you about this matter'. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u61	There's no such thing. He's not coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u62	This is an answer - take note - not of any minister of any government, but of any minister of government, who as the main political tool, weapon, capital and project invokes moral supremacy towards others. Let's see what is going on with the Greek taxpayer's money and an operation of the Greek state and of a case, which is already being dealt with by justice and which is a front page in various newspapers, what should we do? Not to answer the House when we are in love, but to wait next week. Continuing work, "Netflix" we've done! I imagine that the Minister of a government which does not lift a fly to its sword in matters of morality should, at the moment Mr Hatzidakis spoke - in the second minute he raised it - rise, orally speak to him and demand that Mr Hatzidakis immediately accept his storming response, which would proudly prove the honesty of all five Ministers, who are also named after the SYRIZA and the choice, etc. And instead, the answer I get is, "Come on, you poor bastard, I'll come and talk to you next week. Don't rush too. That's a big deal. It was 120 million." The last one - to be fair - is my addition. The conclusion by the style and peace of Mr Stathakis and the way he calmly treats the dismantling of public money as something en passant, which may or may not happen and which, in any case, we shall discuss freely. Mr President, I am not going to use all the time. I will only hold on a little bit if it needs the Minister's reply. I think that you have responded well. We understand how much "wool" has taken us from this story and from your choices. I just want to remind you that lately the cases in which the Commission is the one that puts the fence in your own ambitions of destroying public property are growing up. And that's the good interpretation. There is also a bad and wicked interpretation. The Commission's question was raised with regard to the notice on lignite plants. The Commission said to you: 'Look at this, taking over the future damages of a private person, up to this point'. I believe in the free economy, in the privatizations, that capitalism, obviously - we are a people's party - and, in any case, the free economy and the free market have things to offer. And suddenly I see the Socialist Government saying: We will take half of the private losses. Why would the poor private person charge his own damage? Why, then, does the Greek taxpayer who even has money not tax him too much - relaxed are things, few taxes, so indicative - that he, Minister, does not take half of his personal losses too? And the 'bad' Europeans from Brussels say to our 'birth' socialist government: 'Where are you going? How do you do that?" Here again, our socialist government was buying a field! I would like to remind you of another matter. I have said this many times in my place from this seat but, of course, in the usual manner, no answer. This year, ladies and gentlemen, what the Minister said to us, namely that it will be next week, is a great deal of progress. Even as a placement. Usually moral advantages allow the government, when one asks them something, to respond with absolute silence, with the reason that "it's okay, it'll pass, we'll all forget it." So there is another matter. You remember, Minister, the theme of the 'VENIZELOS' and of the concession to the concessionaire for EUR 480 million, which went to the Com munity and there the 'bad' Europeans curiously saw that our 'good' and 'genital' and 'fair' socialist government was going to give the concession some 700 million less than we could get from the concessionaire. And they turned you back the whole story and you went back then, and the concessionaire dug another 700 million and weirdly didn't open any noses again. No one went to the HICP to tell him: What are you doing? Who allowed it to you? That's the good interpretation. Usually, you know, your own MPs look at the speaker. They're decent, they're noble, most of them new. When you see them lowering their gaze down, in their papers, you understand what has happened. So I ask you this. How do you explain that there has been no explanation - I am not talking about anything else - apparent and publicly from the TIDE to give one of the most important goods, the most important, if you like, a concession with 700 million losses? How is that possible? You want to explain it to me? Where in the world are these things happening? Which governments, which undertakings, if you want? Can you imagine any undertaking that would transfer its asset, would an attempt be made to transfer 700 million less, or almost a third of its value, and would the person who has done so in his place? I'm not talking about justice now, we understand. I am speaking directly of your political responsibility, Minister, to understand and understand each other. Ladies and gentlemen, the weather ends and you understand it. It ends both constitutional and political. Salvation not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u63	Since 2016 you have said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u64	I'd say so, Mr. Papadopoulos. But all you do every time, when it comes to it, is threatening us with what? By delaying the elections. That's the trick. That's what I like.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u65	On time they'll be, they won't be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u66	That's good, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u67	When we say 'time is over', you say 'no, no, it's not over, we have until October, next year'. You are so populous, you are so sure of your next election victory, so confident of the exchange of views with society so strong that the only thing you have to say in Communism is "you have until October of the year". I'll take that, too. To accept it until October of next year. You have nine months left, because in October there are elections, assuming, of course, that you will not last until October.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u68	You've been saying that for three years, don't you mind?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u69	I have the following proposal to you, and I say this sincerely and with all my sympathy to many of you. Use this time to restore what you can save from your blasphemy...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u70	Greece will be saved.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u71	...because with this blasphemy that ensures you approaches, like today's PPC theme, you're not going anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. Mr. Dimitriadis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u73	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u74	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u75	I want the floor, because the question of parliamentary order was raised by Mr Teddy and I feel very bad. You have brought an issue on which you have asked a question of thirty-seven Members of the New Democracy and there will be a parliamentary debate. I am referring to the issue of DEPA. Today we are discussing another matter. We have a question for another matter. There is no silence, since I have made three extensive announcements and nothing new has been added from the New Democracy side. You cannot say that the government is silent, that it is not saying anything. As far as I am concerned, the first time you raised this issue, a very detailed communication came out, it was corrected that it is not 120 million in the last three years. The 80 million took place in New Democracy and along with the increments were 106 to 108 million. Debt has increased in recent years only 12 million. I corrected some things and basically I said directly and openly that this plan - if it were, how it existed - was never implemented anywhere. So that's what's in there. You're coming to have a parliamentary dialogue. Whenever Mr Hatzidakis raises this issue, do we have to shift the debate to the PPA? We will make it together, complete the next week that we will answer your question and see if the scandal is fantastic, real or non-existent. However, you must try very hard to shake the moral advantage of the government!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u76	Justice didn't intervene, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Dimitriadis, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u78	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the question of Officer Opposition is based on and continuously reproduces a pattern, that of destruction, zeroing and of the view that every effort that installs hope is in vain. This is their own account, this is their own political place, this is ultimately their own drama. What they are trying to do with the question about PPC is to bring about a drama, which would be very easy for us today to counter it, because two days ago the "Standard & Poor's" uploaded the company's creditworthiness and said quite important, positive and pleasantly about the Greek economy, and therefore the God's machine could disprove them from this drama. Only because all this drama is a caricature and does not have the stability that the art of drama has, we will debate the substance, because it really is very important to reflect the different strategies on the subject of PPC. The question asked by the Qualified Opposition is a question with about a thousand words. It uses too many concepts, such as growth and economic interests. It also makes attempts at creative accounting. But there is no key word in this question: the word public. No concept of public wealth, no concept of public space, no concept of social rights on energy issues. That's not a coincidence at all. It is precisely this choice that has been made, that is, the strategy that attempted over the past decade to transfer public wealth from the many to the few and unfolded the previous period, and we have successfully stirred up. There was an option to privatise 66% of IPTO by a number, with a sum that we did, preventing IPTO from being privatised by 66%. In other words, we kept the IPTO public, transferring only 24%, at the same price as expected from that plan. We have annulled the inconsistent and abusive agreement with 'SOCAR', namely the Azeros, for gas and we have completed the sale - as we owed - of 66% of the IPCC, by an agreement at a truly higher price of EUR 135 million. The same model is applied to the PPC, where after the separation, i.e. PPC trade and infrastructure, the Greek State will still maintain a majority share in the strategic sector of the networks, which is our firm choice and, indeed, defines our policy and our energy strategy. We prevented the sale of 17% and canceled the law of "small PPC", which is, in fact, the top of the pyramid of your strategic plan. You will allow me to refer a little further to this. Why, in the end, was this company, the 'little PPC', in any case inconsistent? There's a critical word, the word hydroelectric. It was inconsistent, because it basically put the large part of the hydroelectric power in the country and gave it to individuals, which we all know is the most important factor in the profitability of the Public Power Corporation. It is the most important renewable resource, the only renewable resource in fact involving PPC and the most strategic one, of course, because it has huge profit margins and because, indeed, it is the resource that will be supported by the company strategically in the future in the competition environment that we will have in particular with its final establishment from 2020 onwards at European Union level. You committed yourself at the same time as the'small PPC' and the NOMEs, to lose the company - what it was obliged to do - so that it does not have a strategic market share above 50%, as provided for in European rules. And in this example, what characterizes your choices has a name again and is called 'ENERGA HELLAS'. This is your example of how you perceive the privatisation and transfer to other electricity providers beyond PPC and NOMEs, which in this way have been resolved by the example of ENERGA HELLAS. In your comment, namely, that we do not explain how PPC will survive, while its turnover falls from EUR 5 billion to EUR 3 billion, the answer is one and simple. The hydroelectrics you have managed to sell, the ones you are now aiming to put on the agenda, because you are saying that PPC is strategically deadlocked, so it has to be rethinked to sell hydroelectrically. This catastrophic scenario, which you had adopted since 2013, was based on a precedent, which was more reactionary and more destructive, the 2010 scenario which imposed the closure of three hydroelectric units of Ptolemaida, AIA Amyntaio and AIC Kardia. In the period 2015-2018, your plan said that they should get a bandage, about 3000 MW. This is your plan, in which we - Ptolemais - did not catch up, of course, closed down four units - the Heart and the Ammonius. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, because I am the only parliamentary representative from my party, I would ask to have time. We have recently renewed the hours of operation in the units which you - I repeat - decided that they should be closed. We have therefore strategically saved the country's energy adequacy and its security. We saved the jobs you had planned to close. We salvaged the firm, PPC, and the productive infarction you had submitted it, and we would live it now, because, in fact, it is the only operation, the only operation that would stay on the lignite field, was St. Dimitrios, scheduled to close his two units 1 and 2 in the next period. In short, I have listened with curiosity and, frankly, it is absolutely paradoxical to give up on us, because we are canceling your own strategic plan, which you have imposed for the past decade and is evolving nowadays. We're canceling it and relinquishing us precisely for it. We subsidised and built Ptolemais 5, which is, in fact, strategically important for the future of the company in the lignite part and for its survival in competition with the lignite part of it was 1.4 billion very important investment. The investments made in the Kozani Regional Unit on lignite are about 2 billion in the three years that we are government plus 1.4 billion euros in Ptolemais 5 and environmental upgrades of stations, compensation for forced expropriations. PPC's 2 billion investment is our footprint in this three-year period. Also because I heard many crocodile tears for the workers, I would remind you that PPC workers were recruited. We stopped this contingency. That's to finish this conversation. In the sixty years of operation of PPC never had any significant strategic planning, it had only papers that changed from government to government and minister. It, however, had an obvious strategic planning, which was the service of a state-owned and clientele, which was dismantling resources that was dispersing public money and destroying every concept of virtuous economic development. For many years, decades, decades and decades, in the time of fat cows, our islands have never been interconnected, for example, when it is a huge cost and anti-development our islands continue to produce fuel with fuel oil. For example, an accurate investment in the Peloponnese from gas has been made, but for ten years it has not been licensed, because it cannot actually produce or sell the energy produced. It is one of the paradoxes and distortions. So how will this significant investment of 800MW gas in the Peloponnese be amortised? Installed in the core of the company's debts a huge volume of debt. It has been installed for decades, not only was it a government but it was a matter of political will for this strategy, both for the CEN of municipalities and TEI and for the Greek state but also for large, important, of course, energy-intensive businesses in the country. Has there ever been an attempt - not, of course, to resolve these debts, perhaps, and to regulate them, so that, at least as far as energy-intensive and important companies are concerned, investment in renewable energy sources, in alternative forms that would relieve this loop and PPC of debt, but also the same in accurate energy at the expense of public wealth and public electricity production? There was nothing really distortion. As far as trade is concerned, I think that the example of ENERGA HELLAS is all about what your understanding of this type of privatization is. In our strategy PPC, of course, was not destroyed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Dimitriadis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u80	I shall end, Madam President, speaking soon. It is transformed because this is what European rules are imposing on which we are all involved and accepting it. We now have a fierce and agreed by the international institutions a national energy and climate plan. The energy mix of the country will be significantly renewed until ‘30 with an increase of 32% in the share of the RES, in fact, of the total consumption, involving 57% in the production of energy from 29% which is now, as the specific weight of lignite will actually be reduced. Natural gas will play a bridge role, it will act as a stabilising factor in it and the European energy that is changing significantly, will have a complete release from ‘20 and then, in this competitive field, indeed, the Public Power Corporation has the ability and the ability to respond, and that will happen. An answer for the acquisition of EDS. First of all, it's perfectly legitimate. It was made in a context of strengthening the Public Power Corporation on the regional market and it is a company, PPC, listed on the stock exchange and all its transactions, are part of this transparent process imposed on stock exchanges. PPC, of course, is considering business opportunities that arise in the wider region, also dealing with hydrotextiles in Turkey, is considering investments in Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo. Ladies and gentlemen, you must get used to the idea that PPC will be extended and extended to the Balkan inland, contrary to what you have in mind. In other words, PPC will remain a business and a public and uniform one and will be strengthened, because we want it to be a pillar for public Greek policy, to be a factor for fair growth and stability with social control and guaranteeing citizens' rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u81	I told you about the time before. In the timely question, it makes sense. Twelve minutes has the parliamentary representative of the questioning party, not all of them. Mr Kouzilos, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Madam President. "SYRIZA transformed PPC from a development pillar into a systemic risk to the Greek economy." This could well be a title if SYRIZA were opposition. It was just a tactic that existed. Now we have some questions. PPC. Public Power Corporation. How public is it? That's where we start. What's the cut? What do you intend to do and what share do private individuals share in PPC? We should go to the workforce as well quickly as possible. We see a very large reduction - until 2014 are the data on PPC's website - around thirteen thousand in the last fourteen, fifteen years. So are they the privates who have the largest part in PPC? Let's also see something else. Turnover and net debt development. We see that not only has the turnover increased, but you have actually not reduced the debt. So where have all PPC's money gone? In fact, what you have done - because all you have said that "we will settle the issue of PPC", "we will clean it", "we will fix it", as opposition - is that you have reduced the workforce and created scandals. First scandal. The acquisition - you have called it "investment move" - of the scorpion company 'EDS'. We are pleased that the New Democracy adopts the Golden Dawn agenda, which since the first day, at the first moment, we said that the Government and Soro are financing Zaev for the referendum. And the New Democracy comes and makes a very simple copy of the timely question, our own question, under protocol number 2460. I'm putting it down for the record, please. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Kouzilos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Fortunately others follow us in Parliament. Fortunately! We see that the takeover of 'EDS' cost 5.2 million, as it cost Skopje reports - the Zaev election campaign. That's all the money they gave. Other questions that you have not answered arise from the acquisition. And we don't know if you'll ever be able to answer them. First, did the state contracts of ‘EDS’ have been checked to determine whether they were injurious or not? It was just before that company went bankrupt. Will PPC S.A. proceed to an increase in equity, since the EDS is loss-making? You've got to do this. Who recommended the acquisition of this company, given that PPC's market value has a downward trend? That's very simple questions. We have not received an answer so far. The offer for the acquisition was investigated by executives of an Albanian company. Who signes it and who were the addressees? Did this company, the executives, have a certain position within SYRIZA? Finally, which are the international assessors who conducted the EDS valuation? In fact, what PPC bought was a shell. Anyone who knows financially can understand with very simple words. Second SYRIZA scandal. We have a deal with PPC. The difference in the results of the first half of 2017 published was profits of 3.1 million. Another post on this topic is then presented and damage is 249. How did you do that? Tell us. How did you get a profit after studying the time? How did this come out for this semester? But there is another reason why this has been done. Because that's how the share and value of IPTO fell. We have the accounting standardisation committee, which is a national supervisory authority and is responsible for supervising the correct effective implementation of accounting and auditing standards. He's asking for the damages that have been made. Questions. If you can answer us. Which or what sworn accountant companies did it control? If you're so clean, give us the GSM of these companies, see where these companies belong. Because it has something to do with SYRIZA. One company that's been inside has the executives of the U.S.A. company that was at this sworn accountant company, and on the other is a SYRIZA Minister. Will you bring us GEMH, see who's inside, and what's their relationship? And where these people have worked. Was the same companies in the FOLLI FOLLIE scandal? Did you cover it until it arrived in Europe and America and the whole FOLLI FOLLIE scandal was revealed? Did you put the financial director of FOLLI FOLLIE at the supreme office? Is executives of these sworn accountants also in the superstate? All these questions, of course you cannot answer them. These are SYRIZA's scandals. That's why he's never coming, ever as long as you're the rescue of PPC. What everyone says. The New Democracy always copys us faithfully on such matters, but it does not talk about Soro, because it knows that they will be cut off. Rescue PPC won't come because you're gonna cut the part of your own kids. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and four educational sessions of the Kammenos Vourlos High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Madam President. It is a hypocritical interest in PPC, both on the part of the Government and the Officerial Response. This is precisely why the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has not changed the philosophy, logic, the content of energy policy, followed by the former governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. Just two sizes to show your hypocrisy. What are those two sizes? Firstly, PPC's net production from 2000 until now has fallen by 35%. This is the result of the policies of the PASOK of the New Democracy and SYRIZA. Secondly, the number of staff for the same period has fallen by 47%, PASOK - New Democracy - SYRIZA. Therefore, in both key areas, the size of production and the number of workforce, the results are evident, shrinking, intensification of labour and a third element, which is evident for both periods and the New Democracy - PASOK and SYRIZA - is the continuous increase in electricity tariffs, which are called on to pay for the people's households.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u85	Has the power increased?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u86	Of course you too, Minister. ‘The rest of the bills have been increased - the invoice - paid by the people's households and not just the electricity. From this point of view, therefore, the vacancy of your policy is clear, the continuity of your policy. And why did that happen? Why is this evolution of things? In order to allow private producers and operators to enter electricity, both in production and at their disposal. And from this point of view, it was not only enough for PPC to shrink, but you also gave scandalous privileges. Should we remember the privileges that New Democracy and PASOK gave to private investors? They were selling the state wholesale market at much higher prices, making use of the well-founded guaranteed price system, with contracts that were up to 20 years old. You guarantee them how they sell electricity for twenty years, much higher. Secondly, state aid, exploitation of the various development laws, the NRP, European funding programmes and, of course, safeguarding profitability means demolition of the labour relations between wages, labour and insurance rights of workers. On the same lines, with different methods, the current government is also moving in how to ensure investors in the energy sector, particularly in green energy. That is why there is this investment fund, because it is precisely because they have guaranteed their interests, you are giving them simple incentives and you are, in every way, guaranteeing their profitability. This development of things is not just a Greek peculiarity, but it is happening in all the Member States of the European Union. It is not problems that have arisen from the memoranda or been born today, but it is the consequences of a long-term policy which has been applied to all Member States of the European Union since the mid-90s to promote the so-called liberalisation of the electricity market. And then what were you claiming in the mid-90s? You argued that liberation, competition, as you said private groups, would benefit the people, that is to say, that we will have cheaper electricity. Where did you see it after 20 years? Nowhere. That's right. You said that it would create thousands of new jobs, which will be well paid. Where did you see them? We have had a reduction in the workforce and an extension of the contractive and flexible forms of employment, intensification of labour. The JRC, however, at the beginning of the day, had declared that the aim of liberalisation of the electricity market was not popular prosperity, but simply to find a temporary way out of pond funds, overcompensated funds and could not be invested at a satisfactory rate of profit in other sectors of the economy. So what is the result of this political liberation, which we have experienced for twenty years in our country? Firstly, there are issues, in relation to the energy stability of the system, with energy planning. The country's energy dependence on imported fuel has increased. The workforce has been reduced, intensified, working relationships have been overturned, we have an extremely expensive supply for the people's households, which many of them cannot pay, and therefore there are a large amount of time-lag with PPC. Of course, there are 35% of Greek households who live in conditions of energy poverty. Indeed, this is happening in a country such as Greece, which has over-expanded sources of electricity production. If a country has this superpower, that's Greece. And yet, there is both energy poverty. Why? It is precisely because it does not exploit all the energy sources and, secondly, because it wants to ensure capitalist profit. That's why the current is expensive. That is why we are even resorting to imports of electricity. Of course, we know who the guilty one is. The cause of the problem is that electricity is a commodity rather than a social commodity and as long as it remains a commodity either in public, state-run production or in private, the result will be specified for popular strata. From this point of view, therefore, we are clearly saying that this situation of energy poverty, extremely expensive electricity, energy dependence, is the result of certain political options. And, of course, this political problem cannot be solved, without conflict with the real opponent, namely, the ruling class of capitalists, without overthrowing the power of capital. There is a way out, for the benefit of the populace, but another policy needs to be implemented. As long as the State serves the interests of the monopoly groups, there can be no energy planning to meet the needs of the people. No government planning, both today's government and previous and tomorrow's, can overcome competition between groups, can overcome the anarchy of capitalist production and the outbreak of periodic capitalist crises. As long as the profits of groups, private and public, will reign, as long as they are a criterion for development policy, there will be no balanced development of all the energy sources in the country, namely lignite, hydrocarbons, wind energy, water and others, in order to ensure popular prosperity. So, as a JRC, we don't look backwards, that is to say, to the PPC of the 1970s, the 1980s and the 60s. And then the public PPC - to remind you - gave the power of sharpening to business groups and the broken power to the business groups paid the popular mattresses. The notorious contract with PPCINE was precisely the result of this subsidy policy, which PPC did to the business groups. So we are looking ahead and talking about a different development path where all domestic energy sources, means of production, distribution and transmission of electricity will be social, state-owned. There will, in other words, be a single state energy body and as a mechanism for controlling the labour market. This mechanism, this single energy vehicle through this process, will be able to shape the conditions, to obtain an energy design, which will ensure that the energy product is a social asset and not a commodity. The single state-owned energy operator will be able to make full use of and distribute aggregated, nationally all available material resources, means of production, the workforce, on the basis of objectives and priorities, which have been predetermined. Secondly, it will use combined all available domestic sources and all available technical solutions to improve the energy mix. Thirdly, it will promote research into the development of domestic new sources, with transnationally beneficial cooperation. Fourthly, it will make use of scientific research in order to provide timely for future needs and to quickly integrate them into the new technological potential. Only that is enough to show the supremacy of the JRC's proposal to this capitalist barbarism, which today also exists in the energy sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u87	Thank you. Mr Mavrotas from Potami, as a parliamentary representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Madam President. There are seventy years since PPC was set up and, unfortunately, the company is at the most critical crossroads of its many years of offering to the economic development of the country, as well as improving the standard of living of citizens, both consumers and its workers. The current worrying situation has certainly not occurred in the last two, three or four years. Unfortunately, the company has always been a prey to the constant interventions of all the ministers and all governments, both PASOK, New Democracy and now SYRIZA. PPC was also a policy tool. And when I talk about politics, unfortunately, I mean a party policy rather than an energy policy, as the country's longer energy company should and should be treated over time. It was, therefore, this governmental patronage, as well as the willingness of PPC administrations, which made it the number a mechanism for ever-increasing appointments, without any strategic planning. Of course, the rich advertising was not missing, even when it was a monopoly, as were the galantic subsidies in its various clubs. Unfortunately, PPC rested on lignite and turned into a slow-moving body that could not respond to developments, such as other modern European energy companies. It is no coincidence, after all, that it is too late to become an extrovert and to explore choices outside the borders and other markets. The main thing, however, is that he has hesitated to enter the RES race, renewable energy, when he had time, know-how and capital. The liberalisation of the electricity market has been added to them, with PPC having to have a market share of less than 50% by 2020. Thus, a monopolistic elephant had to be turned into a competitive race horse. It's hard and painful. Of course, we must not forget that several lignite plants have grown old, causing them to function within environmental and efficient limits. PPC has such a difficult portfolio within a difficult economic climate, and even when in the last year there has been a rally in the prices of greenhouse gas emissions, which, from EUR 7.5 per tonne, reached some time even more than tripling, i.e. around EUR 25 per tonne. Now we're about 20 euros per tonne. But the overall picture shows a rapid price rise, which has to happen before 2009. Unfortunately, under the responsibility of all governments, PPC's main shareholder, the Greek State with about 55%, has been shown to be unable to support a brave development plan. How will investment be sustainable? How will its units be modernised? How will it be extended to the market in renewable energy sources? How will it respond to the competition that comes from the single European energy market too? The Potami has already produced a specific proposal for PPC for a year and a half, which we have submitted to you here from the Step of the House. I will not repeat it in detail, I will simply recall its main points. First point. A small new PPC up to 30% -40% capacity or two new PPCs up to 20% each, in order to attract investors, who will take a similar share of the whole value chain, verticalisation, i.e. from production, up to the share of retail customers, i.e. by analogy, good and bad customers, low, medium and high voltage. The second point is the strategic investor. PPC urgently needs a strategic partner with know-how, vision, plan and capital, which will take over the management. Management suffered, as government intervention prevented the administration from doing what it had to do, based on proper corporate governance. Micro-political intentions have always been widened. The third point is employment peace and job security. PPC's workforce is so skilled and inextricably linked to the mining and production areas that it would be impossible for any new investor not to exploit and seek any other staff. The fourth point is the improvement of the collection, which is a great dome for PPC, with the responsibility of SYRIZA, which has encouraged 'I do not pay' practices, creating strategic mispaid creditors. In this respect we have finally proposed that the deduction should finally be deducted from PPC's accounts of the remaining charges in favour of third parties, ERT, municipal taxes, fees, etc. Finally - the last - the fifth point is the upgrading of PPC's role on narcotics, including other modern activities within it, such as energy services, decentralised production, smart red's etc. In other words, PPC must stop taking back fights and looking at the future, preparing for the post-climbing era. These five points we continue to believe will help to get PPC out of the deadlock, in a sustainable way, before it is too late. That's enough with the patches. Businesses, and how much more than large energy companies, want strategic planning rather than planning with the semester, nor with a single government term. However, as the New Democracy's second topical question for PPC focuses on the issue of the relatively recent acquisition of the EDS scop, we also want some explanations, a story that - not to be forgotten - has been known since January 2018. In particular, we would like you to explain to us, not by a general answer, how such a move contributes, as Mr Stathakis said in his reply, to the strengthening of PPC in the regional energy market in the context of cross-border transactions and in the context of the European single energy market, that is, what the expected and on what horizon positive results are and whether they will be reflected in a next balance sheet. In conclusion, I would like you to answer a crucial question about PPC. What will happen and how the viability of Ptolemais investment 5 and, respectively, Melite 2, is affected under the current system of increasing CO2 emission rights. And these, when the charge coefficient for lignite plants is set for 2025, based on your recent energy design, to go to 32.7% only, from 51% in 2017. Is the combustion of natural gas being considered as an alternative to these new plants? Since we have said gas, indeed, you should give some answers to the issue of DEPA and to the statements made by Mr Kitsakou and to the relations of the IPPC with Mr Laurentiadis, as you said you would. I conclude by saying that because we are in a phase of the revision of the Constitution and in Article 21 you want to add a further paragraph, which says that electricity will be subject to a public service regime, we would like you to give us a few more explanations, to make it a little less lyneer. Will PPC become a legal person governed by public law? What are you going to do to private providers? You're going to be privatizations? What do you mean by the public service system and how does this go hand in hand with the liberalisation of the energy market in Europe? And because on Monday, we will have this in the Committee on Constitutional Revision and it is one of the sos, if you can tell us how you think about it. In closing, PPC pays, unfortunately, sins from the political system and the client state. From a steam engine of the Greek economy, there is a risk that both the Greek economy and the Greek society will become an atrocity. Many were careered "on the back" and many had "platforms" in her wastes. Now, the mountain with the "under the carpet" problems has grown and are not solved, if we think with the same criteria as in the past, but only if we change minds if we change an example and see PPC through the perspective of corporate governance rather than the customer arrangement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u89	Thank you. The last speaker from the Parliamentary Representatives is Mr Cavalellas. Mr Cavadela, you have the floor, and I hope you will keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u90	I'm typical always. Ladies and gentlemen, the terms have now been reversed. Today the New Democracy is coming to protest and demand full transparency in the House for PPC's plans to divest and reap PPC, which she herself - before in a conspiracy with PASOK, as we remember from 2014 - had started cutting, when Mr. Tsipras called on an open front, threatened by referendums, characterizing a national crime as "small PPC". The energy infrastructure and the mineral wealth of each country should be the driving lever for growth, for the welfare of its people. But in Greece today's memorial tombs, which began with PASOK but which were only due to continue by the Government of New Democracy - PASOK and the current government, the time of a proclaimed death, which was not provided by the New Democracy, is being implemented, but is trying to end it by your Government SYRIZA - ANEL, cutting and exchanging by concise procedures most of the energy infrastructure of the country. This experiment had begun through the plan of PPC. New Democracy and PASOK had launched this in the past few years. For days SYRIZA, PPC and its shares have been demolished, swallowed to less than 84%. Therefore, we in the Central Association at least share the current supposed anguish of the New Democracy, which we can regard as hypocritical and imposed for election tactics purposes, not to say election regularity if, when New Democracy ruled, it was the same exemplary manager. He protests about the same things that happened at the time. On the other hand, SYRIZA celebrates why? For a small upgrade of one unit, one grade. After a large fall of four degrees, it is assumed that the great work offered by the current rulers to PPC has been recognized. The opening up of markets, according to the Government, is in the name of allegedly competition and of the best service to citizens. I would like to say that you have turned PPC into a clientele, into a micro-loans for consumers. However, experience has taught that whenever in our country the government in question announces opening up markets, in fact it is translated into greater weight for the citizens, who in recent years of course have been lagging behind by a series of experiments on supposed investments that will lead to the exit of the crisis and development, but a development that never comes, no one sees it anywhere. The worst is the State's commitment to private individuals for possible losses when they buy PPC by 50%. My prediction is that all damages will be present. I would remind you of something important, that Greece has the second place in lignite production in the European Union and in the sixth place worldwide, which automatically means that the new owners will put their hands on, they will gain access to one of the largest reserves on the planet. And this, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when energy poverty in Greece is getting bigger and larger parts of the population, the government is giving the private capital lignite units, although in the Central Association we have to have spent a decade in green energy at the latest. Finally, we in the Central Association consider it to be a major national issue to defend our national sovereignty. The investment of the devalued PPC in a dubious and highly indebted business of the neighbouring state of Skopje with the cloak of the supposed development of our bilateral economic relations. To us, this was a gift in the Zafe referendum, an extra gift to our neighbours and an extra weight in the Public Power Corporation, which we stress the respondents wanted, but they failed to deceive, while respondents SYRIZA - ANEL defended their national character. But they managed to complete what New Democracy and PASOK did not have time to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr Cavadela, for the time. Now, Mr. Screkas has the floor. Of course, Mr. Screka, you haven't left any time, you know that. You've spoken for sixteen minutes and twenty-five minutes. All your time was 15 minutes with the denology, but, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u92	Madam President, I think that on such an important issue, it is worth another five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u93	Not five, three.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u94	Well, I would like to say very quickly, Madam President and Minister, that we here today did not come from a point of view to creating a small-party and political confrontation with wood and sterile. We came because we really are concerned about PPC's course, because we understand the role PPC has in the development that we want to achieve in our country. And we would like you, for that very reason, to be honest with what we have answered and really to stand up to the responsibilities which you have to face today from the position you hold. I want to start and say this very quickly. You mentioned several times in the assessment report of the international rating agency ‘Standard and Poor's’, which upgraded PPC from the category ‘spirits’ to the category ‘live garbage’ when - I repeat - in 2014, the company's rating was three steps above the assessment you have already achieved. But that's not what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u95	It was for 2013.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u96	Listen to me. What that says - and that is important, Minister - is the evaluation, the report. In the last paragraph of the first page it says: "We continue to have doubts about the viability of PPC's operation and its market place." And it continues: "The transition of PPC to its new situation from 2019 to 2021 requires serious investments of EUR 2.2 billion", money, for example, that would expect PPC to receive from the sale of lignite plants, which you have not set a threshold and which, as I said, has been postponed twice. We are very concerned about whether they will be sold and how they will be sold, when you are finally obliging or trying to force it to take over the damage that these plants will have if they are sold. Thirdly, this report says that they expect an increase in tariffs. He's saying it clearly. And fourthly, it says that they only upgrade the company because they believe that the state can support the company with exceptional aid. So, what's he saying? In short, that the state will come and use Greek taxpayers' money to support PPC, even if it has a problem. But you did not respond, Minister, to what I said to you, that PPC in 2017 entered 1 million euros a day. That's how much the damage was. And in 2018, if the assessment of the ‘Standard and Poor's’ report for an operating margin of 390 million, PPC will enter about 2 million euros a day. You also did not say what was happening with the factories. You separated 12 thousand yards of lignite production, which produces the complex of the heart of Saint Demetrius and Amynteios, to just a thousand Gigabateras. How is it possible when - I repeat - four thousand, five thousand yards produces Nea Ptolemaida, four and a half thousand yards will produce the companies, the lignite plants you sell, which will not belong to PPC. This makes us a sum of eight and a half thousand sons. The national energy plan - for 2025, not for 2030, that is for six years after - says that it will require ten thousand yards. In other words, it will only be necessary for a single unit to produce a thousand five hundred yards to meet the demand that you have made Greece have in 2025. How is it possible for Amyntheus, Agios Dimitrios 1, "St. Dimitrios 2", "St. Dimitrios 3" and "St. Dimitrios 4" to fit there? They don't fit. You should be honest. Tell us what you're gonna do. Also, because things have been heard by the MEP from Kosani - and he should read a little about what is translated into him - about Amyntheus, I would like to say that Amphetinos, this stubborn, in your view, supposedly little PPC's plan that has been swept through and swept away, has given a solution to everything. It did not include NOME - which cost PPC 300 million, according to Mr Panayotakis - nor deinvesting lignite plants without a threshold. The small PPC plan included the sale of Amyntium to the private investor, who was obliged to invest in order to modernise and operate it. Those aren't there. I'm going to say something last very quickly and I'm done because you're constantly repeating the CRS. I'm going to finally have to get some evidence at some point. You mustn't provoke us. For the OSCE, the previous investor gave 400 million when the OSCE fund had 10,000,000 euros, 200,000 euros. Now, investors give 530,000,000 euros and DESFA has 270,000,000 euros. It has nothing to do with the situation of the D.C.D. at the time with now. We've doubled the gas that's been going through the DSA ducts since then. Then they spent two and a half billion cubic metres of gas and we've gone to almost four and a half billion cubic metres of gas. So in a very different situation, DESFA is a small "Eleftherios Venizelos". That's the reality. Normally you should see the price again and ask for additional money.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u97	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u98	I shall conclude, Mr President. I don't want to say much about NOME. There are times when PPC really buys from the limit price for the energy system and sells in energy auctions not below the total cost I have said, but below the actual cost purchased from the system limit price. It buys 60 euros, 70 euros from the system limit price - that is what you have achieved, Mr Papoutsis, in Western Macedonia - and sells 30 euros and 35 euros, half of what it buys. When I talked about total operating costs, you know very well that NOMEs come out on the basis of variable costs. So the remaining costs of PPC's administrative staff, the trade, all the rest of the way out? How will the rest of the people be paid? The total cost of production of PPC is one and a half times as much as the variable cost of the plant.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u99	One and a half times the NOMEs come out on the market.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u100	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u101	I shall conclude, Madam President. That's not a matter of making a fight, a chicken fight. The New Democracy, we together, have repeatedly come to the House and asked the Minister for one thing: to tell us what the plan that the government has today, for four years, to save PPC. We have McKenzie's plan, PPC's strategic advisor, and we have repeatedly asked the Minister to present it to the Greek Parliament to inform the MPs. All the press offices have it, and finally they don't have it by the Greek MPs. And this McKenzie project says "decrease in staff by four thousand, increase in invoices and under half PPC". This thing, the Minister, has promised that it will be implemented. And according to information, there is also an e-mail that demonstrates that the Minister has committed himself to PPC lenders to implementing this McKenzie plan. They must at last respond honestly, with courage and responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, too. The Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u103	Madam President, I would just like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u104	Mr Demetriades, it is not provided for by the Rules of Procedure dentology in the other parties, except for the questionable party.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u105	Just for a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u106	You've abused my grace.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u107	I will only speak on staff for one minute because he referred to me as a member of the Kosanis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u108	I didn't mention it by name.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u109	But the Minister will speak. Are you going to say something more important?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u110	The Minister will not speak of Congressman Kosanis. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u111	Here, Mr Demetriades, you have the floor for just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u112	First of all, I speak with facts. The fact that we have today in our minds, as far as Aos Hearts is concerned - because Aos Ptolemais was closed in 2015 - and Agios Dimitrios is now to close, within the next two months, with what this means for production, because the hours planned are over. We've been through this. I don't want to talk about it again. That's the reality. It is the plan you have submitted, implemented for a decade, and we have overthrown it and extended it to Amphetinos and the Heart for a certain period of time. As far as what will happen after 2025 is concerned, I repeat that the planning of the LAGs in our region has been done again by you in the past decade. I am talking about the power system of the last decade, which has agreed to close. It's not something that we do. You have done so and we are looking for alternatives, as we did with the Heart and the Amphintino. We'll do the same for whatever it takes. We closed Ptolemais.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u113	Let the Minister say it, Mr. Demetriades. It's a question to the Minister. Minister, how long will it take? You have ten minutes of dentology and five tritology if Mr. Dendias comes. Otherwise, we're closing here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u114	I'm gonna need five minutes. From what I understand from Mr. Skreka's denture, the trio that he wants is: Lignites forever, never shut down any unit, let us declare that we will fire four thousand from PPC - how many do you want? -...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u115	We're nobody. You have committed yourself to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u116	...and that we will increase PPC's tariffs. This is the tripartite part of the neo-democratic obsession. I think the answers are very clear on all threes. Lignites have a schedule. When the life of the lignite unit ends, it's withdrawn. This is the country's long-term energy planning, clean by 2030. So the new unit and the units that close and last for life after 2030 are the ones that will operate, in Agios Dimitrios, the new units of Ptolemais, in Megalopolis, and go by saying. Those who have an expiry date after 2030 will continue to operate. These are 17% anticipated in energy planning. To reduce staff, PPC takes some decisions. She doesn't want voluntary, and she says that pensions, as she has set them, are her strategy right now. If you have another opinion, suggest it. We consider PPC's strategy to be sound. So pensions and replacements, recruitment on a ratio - I don't remember exactly -4 to 1 or 3 to 1. So there's no question of redundancies and willfulness. For tariff increases, your data has again been disproved. Two consecutive years will reduce the electricity price in Greece on the basis of EUROSTAT. It's very obvious why this is happening. Because PPC's policy with 15% in the consistent and private competition has a positive impact on price reduction. We have ruled out an increase in the price of electricity, so the New Democracy must move to other areas, so that it is dismantling something that creates some kind of impression. But I want to stand by Mr. Dendia, because his position was double. Firstly, he said: ‘What are you doing now? A work of the New Democracy that we had prepared and a little late, that's what you did, Syros - Mykonos." This offends the common sense, because I can list what IPTO has done. It wasn't just the Cyclades I, that ended. Cyclades II is in assignment. The small interconnection of Crete was signed the day before yesterday, which was a sketch of Mr. He had done nothing else. A line was on a sketch and within two and a half years this work matured, the international competition became and the conventions were signed. The great interconnection of Crete is a work of huge technical and environmental maturity, which we will call it early in 2019. The great pipelines of the country and the transformation of Greece into an energy hub these years have been. The TAP, of course, was a previous government contract, but at the beginning of 2015, the authorisation was started. In 2018, 90% of the TAP has entered the ground, tens of problems have been solved and in 2020, as planned by the timetable, will work. With regard to the vertical axis, which was at zero point, the IGP, is awarded the project in the next quarter. As far as hydrocarbons are concerned, there were three - four contracts concluded. The two major contracts were signed within eighteen months and the contracts were completed and come to Parliament, closing a cycle of concessions over all hydrocarbons during this period and so on. It is a long way from an image presented by Mr. Dendias that this government in energy has managed to complete about one worker, according to the New Democracy, and nothing more. On the second issue he raised, I would like to repeat on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that we shall bring this matter to the House, as has been requested by the New Democracy. The dialogue has already taken place since the beginning. There was a communication from the New Democracy, an announcement from the Ministry, successively. No question has been raised by New Democracy which has not been answered. Here we are, in parliamentary control, going further into this debate and seeing what else you want around it. However, it is insulting to say that SYRIZA avoids dialogue on such a sensitive subject, which - I repeat - we will discuss everything in detail and in detail, and in Parliament next week.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u117	Minister, for the Constitution I asked? For the public regime?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u118	The Constitution is the job of the constitutionalists and the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u119	But we need to know, because on Monday...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u120	All right, the Minister will see what happens. After four years, we'll see. The debate is adjourned at number 5/5/10-10-2018 on the subject: "SYRIZA has turned PPC from a development pillar into a systemic risk to the Greek economy". Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-30-S1-commons.u121	With the consent of the House at 13.28 p.m., the sitting on Monday, December 3, 2018, at 18.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
