ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Thursday 15 March 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Georgios Palliou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, dated 128512-32018, on the subject: "South bypass of Mytilini." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1311/13-2018 topical question of the Athens Parliamentary I, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Expression of crime in Athens". 3. The question asked by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Stelios to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "For the disasters caused by heavy rain in the Municipality of Zagoras - Muresi". 4. The Question No 1283/9-3-2018 by H' Vice-President of the Parliament and MEP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of the Interior concerning the granting of non-functional school buildings. 5. The question raised by Mr Aristides Fokas, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Aristidis Fokas, Minister for Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Control the penalty procedure against PAOK". 6. The question by No. 1280/9-3-2018, by Mr. Athens, Mr. Georgios Amyras, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, about the reconstruction of the Saviour's Holy Transformation Temple in Plaka. B. PERSONS Second-cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition, Antonio Balomannakis to the Minister of the Interior, dated 1286-12-3-2018, on the subject: ‘Capture of gaps in the Fire Corps by participants of the competition 2011’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 1312/13-2018 of the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The threatened social eruption at the Lecture of Lower Neuroscope Drama". 3. The question by No 1305/13-3-2018 of the Member of Parliament, Aitolakaranania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Reduced Farmers' pensions". 4. The 1281/9-3-2018 topical question by MP 2 Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks Mr. George Lazarides to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Compromises and critical days for Greek football". 5. The question asked by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The upgrading of the Centre for Animal Genetic Resources Karditsa". 6. Mr Diamantos Manolakou, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Protection and Safety Measures for the Life and Health of Workers in the Shipbuilding Area". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotas Vranzas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "The functioning of veterinary services, management of zoonoses and their effects on livestock farming." 8. The Question No 1307/13-3-2018 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning the workers at the 'Europe' press distribution agency. 9. Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Union workers - Rural Cooperation in Trikala" (ESF). 10. The question by No 1267/6-3-2018 of Independent MEP 2, Athens, Mr.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou, Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Abrogation of the protection of the pensions of HEIs by the law of Katrugalou". 11. The question raised by Mr Georgios Amyras at No 1218/2-3-2018 by MP Mr.Athens, Athens, George Amyras, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The need to modernise legislation on plant propagating material". 12. The question by No 1229/5-3-2018 of Independent MEP B'Athens Efstathiou (Stathhi) Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Criminality and all kinds of attacks by underworld people and gadgets." 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 1149/26-2-2018 topical question by MP 2 of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "About the para-state website, the unprecedented attack on the A.T. took place. Cesarean’. 14. Observed. The 1159/27-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiotas to the Minister of the Interior, on "Problems in the Operation of the Department of Border Guard (T.A.F.)" Pyonia’. 15. The 1150/26-2-2018 topical question by MEP I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Antoniou Gregos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on "About the Greek ethnic minority of Skopje". 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The 1151/26-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on "Questions about the agent's case based on P. Kammenos's revelations". 17. Mr Ioannis Saridis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 1834/5-12-2017 by MP Athens, Nea Konstantinos (Kosti) Hatzidakis, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Athens transport: The taxpayers pay more money for worse services". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only a discussion and a vote on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Integration into Greek legislation of Directive 2014/104/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on certain rules governing compensation actions under national law for infringements of the provisions of competition law of the Member States and of the European Union’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 7 March 2018 to discuss the draft law at a meeting. I would remind you that it is the bill that has been postponed and because of the change in leadership of the relevant ministry. I propose that the draft law should be uniform in principle, articles and amendments. First of all, let me inform you that today will be the second e-card registration test.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u2	And the rapporteurs?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u3	No, Mr. Constantinople. It is not about the rapporteurs, it is about those colleagues who want to be registered. If anyone needs any help, they'll be here as partners of the Chair who'll come down and show it to you. Only one colleague spoke to the committee. I don't think there's gonna be a lot of registrations, and the bill is a savage. So I think we can go and quickly and finish in time. Four ministerial amendments have been tabled. I have contacted the Minister to come to support them, and there I will stop the flow of five minutes to give them the floor to have a picture of the amendments. The Minister will speak, from what he has said to me, after the rapporteurs, and if a few colleagues - two - have joined, three - he will expect colleagues to speak and he will close, at least as far as prototypes are concerned. I don't think there are any seconds at today's sitting. I think that we unanimously agree on the procedure and can start with the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Charilao Jamaklis. Please, Mr. Jamakli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law incorporates European Union law number 2104 in the Greek legal order. The provisions of the Directive encourage and facilitate the conduct of actions for damages for breach of antitrust national and Union law, while at the same time seeking to harmonise national legal systems in such actions. The use of damages as a means of enforcing law against restrictions on competition is a key element in the recent Union competition policy. Public enforcement of law against restrictions on competition is necessary, but no longer a sufficient condition for its application. Therefore, the injured must be facilitated to strengthen his administrative enforcement by bringing an action for damages against the offender or the offenders. This clear legal and legislative strategy is designed to provide advantages of substantive and procedural law so that compensation can be brought against companies which have infringed the law against restrictions of competition. In this context, Directive 2014/104, as long as the damage arises from a contract or wrongdoing, which may restrict or distort competition. The draft law contains provisions on wrongful liability, which are systematically part of the general framework of the provisions of Article 914 et seq. of the Civil Code, which they do not set aside. The draft law sought to incorporate all the provisions of the directive into Greek substantive and procedural law, despite the difficulty of incorporation, especially with regard to certain matters relating to the indirect buyer. The provisions of the draft law also applied to purely national infringements of Law 3959/2011. However, it is limited only to claims for damages, without prejudice to any claims for omission, infringement and termination of the infringement. The Directive does not prevent the national legislator from expanding its scope and in infringements with an exclusively national dimension, i.e. where the possibility of affecting Union trade is lacking. The draft law, in line with the directive, establishes the legal basis of the Civil Code, i.e. Articles 914 et seq., reinstatement of compensation. The effective application of the competition rules through the route of damages cannot reach a compensation in excess of the reinstatement of the law of compensation with a quasi-trial dimension. The strictness of the principle governing the law of damages excludes its criminal dimension. As far as the injured person is concerned, even if there is no explicit reference, the draft law follows the regulation of the directive. Any natural or legal person who is a party to the market and has suffered damage due to an infringement of the rules of competition law may claim and obtain full compensation for the damage in question. This applies both to individual actions and to the impending decision of the Competition Authority. This wide-ranging legalisation results from the main position that the loss caused by restrictions of competition is often limited to the direct buyers, suppliers or competitors, but extends to each market operator, including indirect buyers and suppliers, but also to final consumers. For active legalisation, the loss of the injured person in any form is critical. Positive injury is normally caused by the impact of anti-competitive behaviour on price levels. The positive loss will consist of the difference between the price actually paid and the hypothetical market price, which would have existed without restriction of competition, while the loss of profit has been incurred if the artificial increase in the price led to a reduction in the demand for the products of the affected competitor or the direct or indirect buyer. Second, a joint venture or abuse of a dominant position may, on the other hand, intervene in the quantity of goods made available. This also applies to foreshadowed profits. Under Article 4 of the draft law, Article 5 of the Directive is transposed into national law, which confers the so-called right of notification or information. The introduction of that provision is intended to ensure the principle of effectiveness in the exercise of the right to compensation, taking into account the basic asymmetry which characterises the differences involved. In this context, the strict conditions laid down in the provisions on the demonstration of national law are being circumvented. In addition to Articles 450-452 of the Code of Civil Procedure, where there is no alternative specific regulation of the draft law on the grounds that such an additional application should not unduly complicate the effective exercise of the right to compensation. The request for notification may be made by any party, both the plaintiff and the defendant, in order to ensure the principle of equal treatment of arms. Paragraph 5 of Article 4 of the draft is transposed by the court ordering the notification of evidence under Article 5 of the Directive. The diagnosing reference to legal secrecy in force under Union or national law was maintained in order to implement the law - Union or national - which provides its greatest protection in legal secrecy each time. Article 5 of the plan transposes Article 8 of the Directive. In our current procedural law, the court is free to decide whether the object of the proof, on which the document has been ordered, is to be regarded as being homogeneous with the provisions of Articles 452 and 366 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Article 5 of the draft law no longer leaves the debtor's insolvent as the application has the effect of declaring the applicant's pleas in law to prove the presentation or disclosure of which has been ordered. This confession is a full proof against him that the application as laid down in Article 352(1) of the Code of Civil Procedure. It is therefore unnecessary to enforce the decision ordering the demonstration and the provisions of Articles 452, 941 and 946 of the Code of Civil Procedure do not apply mutatis mutandis. Article 6 shall settle matters relating to requests for disclosure of information referred to in Article 4, where all or part of the information invoked by the applicant constitutes part of the case file of a competition authority, either because they were collected or because they were submitted to the competition authority in the context of an investigation into the application of Articles 101 and 102 of the European Union Convention on the Functioning of the European Union or of existing national legislation, as applicable. Evidence in a ‘competition authority’ dossier. In addition to the above restrictions, notification referred to in Article 6, Article 7 lays down restrictions on the use of paragraphs 4 and 5 of Article 6 in actions for damages where such evidence has been held solely by means of the procedure for access to the competition authority’s file in the proceedings. Article 8 lays down the limitation of claims against the offender for damages due to infringement of fair competition, which it lays down for five years. The limitation shall start after the injured person has learned or may reasonably be expected to have known the infringement of competition law the damage and the identity of the offender. If the suspension of the infringement is to take place in time, the limitation shall start at the subsequent time of cessation. In any event, claims against the offender shall be waived in twenty years after the termination of the infringement of competition law. It shall further specify cases of suspension of the limitation. Article 9 regulates the action for damages under this plan as regards the bindingity of the finding of infringement by decisions of primary and final national competition authority, decisions of the European Commission and decisions of a Greek or Union court. It is unequivocally laid down that those judgments are binding on the Court of Justice. Article 10 provides that undertakings which jointly committed infringements of competition law are involved in the whole. It is introduced by way of derogation if one of the undertakings jointly infringed competition law is a small and medium-sized undertaking, as specified in Commission Recommendation 2003/361. It is only for its own direct or indirect buyers under certain conditions. The exception does not apply if the small and medium-sized enterprises have led to the infringement of competition law or forced other undertakings to participate in the infringement or if the small and medium-sized enterprises had previously infringed competition law. An undertaking which, according to the preceding paragraphs, paid the full compensation shall have the right to reduce the compensation against the others. Article 11 provides that a right to compensation shall have any person who has been harmed by the offender, irrespective of whether he is a direct or indirect buyer. The defendant may claim as a plea against the applicant's claim for compensation for his positive loss that the defendant has completely or partially transferred the extra burden suffered by the infringement to the next tiers of the supply chain. Article 12 provides that actions for damages by applicants operating at different levels in the distribution chain of a product may not lead to compensation exceeding all the damage caused or non-payment of compensation. Article 13 provides that a special section of the Athens Court of First Instance is to be set up to determine the cases of this draft law, the territorial jurisdiction of which extends to all of the country and defines the qualifications of the Judges. Similarly, a special section of the Athens Court of Appeal is hereby recommended to hear and determine appeals against decisions of the First Chamber on cases under this draft law. According to Article 14, the court shall have the power to assess the amount of the damage, sufficient to establish whether it is practically impossible or excessively difficult to determine precisely the amount of the damage caused by the applicant, according to the evidence available. The court may ask the National Competition Authority to deliver its opinion on matters relating to the application of this Regulation if it considers it appropriate. Article 15 shall refer to cases of consensual dispute resolution. Finally, Article 16 provides for the time-limit for applying the substantive provisions as from their entry into force. With regard to procedural provisions, they shall apply to actions brought by 26-12-2014 and thereafter, with the exception of Article 13 applicable to actions lodged from 16-9-2018 and thereafter. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u5	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Christos Dimas has the floor. Here, Mr Dimas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first I wish you wholeheartedly good power and good success in your new duties. You are undertaking at a very critical time a very critical portfolio. But I would like to tell you that we are debating today in plenary - it is the final debate - an important draft law and we have not yet heard the view of the government. And that is despite the fact that we met in committee, we asked your predecessor, who was not present. So we expect to hear both your answers and the view of the government. Even with a delay of three years today, the Community Directive 2014/104 is now being adopted. But I want to highlight your hypocrisy and inability. Before becoming a government, you were unquestionably accused of very intense tones of the previous cartel government in certain sectors of the economy. But you have not changed anything in this area for three years. And a Community directive had to come so that you would be forced to take any legislative initiative to bring in damages for the infringement of antitrust legislation. But let's look at them in detail. This Community Directive 2014/104/EC was agreed on 26 November 2014, i.e. a very short time before SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks take over the rule of the country. And while one would expect that a government which, at the time of election, was - supposedly - of particular interest in the issues of competition and breaking cartels - should have moved immediately to include this directive, which, incidentally, we had to have incorporated into national law by December 2016 - spent three years without doing absolutely anything. It is characteristic that of the twenty-eight Member States of the European Union Greece is the last to ensure compliance of national legislation. Probably, SYRIZA and Independent Greeks, you didn't really want to hit the cartels as you did. At this point too, I would stress that, in view of your undue delay in incorporating the Community directive, you are forced to bring Article 16, which states that the procedural provisions of the present provisions apply to actions for damages brought from 26 December 2014 onwards, with the exception of Article 13, which applies to actions brought from 16-9-2018 onwards. Here, of course, as a result of your delay in incorporating the Community directive - and that is the reason alone - you create two different regimes in actions for damages, before and after 26 December 2014. Of course, the retroactiveness of the law is normally explicitly forbidden by the Constitution. In this case there is a case-law at European level that allows it, if there is a Community directive, even if it has not been incorporated at that time. So it's under the law. But, Minister, you're definitely pulling things to the end. In any case, with this prediction you are very complicated with things and regulation may cause problems. But let's go to the essence of the draft law. The draft law seeks to reduce any obstacles that may exist to enable the victims of cartels to be restored by compensation guaranteed by claims for damages and to regulate aspects of free competition. In order to achieve this, any legal or natural person, who has suffered damage due to the delivery of the Union or national law on the protection of free competition by an undertaking or an association of undertakings, may effectively claim and achieve full compensation for the damage suffered. In fact, the direct buyers, i.e. those who buy goods or services from the offender, as well as the indirect buyers, i.e. those who buy goods or services that are active in subsequent steps in the supply chain, can do so. It also provides for the possibility for the defendant to bring forward to the court the objection to the transfer of the actual loss as a means of defence in order to reject a claim for damages. In other words, the defendant may claim that the plaintiff has not suffered damage or suffered a loss of value, since any additional burden has been passed on to the indirect buyer. Article 10 is of interest, as it regulates the case where more than one undertaking has jointly infringed fair competition. It states that small and medium-sized enterprises only address their direct and indirect buyers, since their market shares on the relevant market are less than 5%, at any time when the infringement is concluded, and whether a stay of ordinary rules on joint and overall liability could cause irreparable damage to their economic viability. This special scheme does not, however, apply where the small and medium-sized enterprises have ordained the infringement, forced other undertakings to participate in the infringement or have committed an infringement of competition law in the past. Directive 2014/104 was initially considered by most traders to be an important part of competition law, in the sense of recognising an important weapon of claiming compensation for breaches of competition in favour of consumers. However, it appears that due to the lack of recognition of the possibility of collective treatment, it is likely that not much change. Perhaps the most important innovation in terms of liability law is follow-on action following relevant decisions by the Competition Committees and the National Commission and the European Union. In particular, in the context of effective consumer protection, two seem to be key issues here. First of all, how is the consumer’s damage calculated? In particular, quantification of the injury, which consists of the difference in value of the product without the cartel. The hypothetical reduction in an ideal price, which would be shaped by healthy competition, is inherently problematic. This problem certainly remains in the Greek draft law. It could not be different anyway. Articles 4 and 14 shall endeavour to help towards a more effective exercise of the right to compensation by collecting the necessary evidence, assessing and quantifying the injury. Of course, however, the judges should have a very specific view of how markets work and more specific economic knowledge in order to be able to reach safe conclusions. This is something that was also highlighted by the bodies during the consultation of the draft law. Second matter. Why is it not that consumers' associations are able to bring their collective action in a way which is liable to claim and satisfy their moral interests? That's the crucial point. There is no provision for a mechanism for collective redress. The consumer organizations are calling for it throughout Europe. The reality is that most countries have not adopted it, fearing that under conditions they could transform associations into market regulators, so that, if they wanted to do so, they could force businesses. However, the explanatory statement in Article 3(3) and (4) excludes the quasi-judicial functioning of the compensation and limits the circle of legal persons to be compensated. Minister, therefore my question is reasonable: has the matter been discussed? Is there any kind of consultation with consumer associations in order to widen such a possibility? In the debate in committee, I asked the Minister. We have not received a specific answer. I would like to know whether or not before the committee or after the committee there was some communication with the Consumer Associations. In such a case, however, another parameter should be taken into account. In particular, it should be demonstrated that the prices increased due to the cartel reached the consumer. It should be demonstrated that the direct buyer, who had purchased the product at an increased price from the cartel participant, transferred the extra burden to the consumers, i.e. did not absorb it himself. Therefore, if this is accepted, then a matter arises with the direct buyer, who will not be entitled to compensation, because he will have transferred the burden to the consumer. Furthermore, the question of reducing the sales volume of the direct buyer is also raised because of an increased price. Therefore, if such a provision is finally introduced, the rules on movement should also be clear. Will it be similar to that described in Articles 13 and 14 of the Directive, which introduces a fighting presumption in favour of migration? However, in order to avoid litigation of collective actions, it should be made clear that in these cases the reinstatement of the compensation is also possible, without leaving any margin for the so-called damages, which is difficult for the Greek legal system. However, as a New Democracy, we agree with the spirit of the directive. As we have said in committee, we will vote in favour. But I would like, Minister, to receive answers to these two specific questions, because in the committee, despite the fact that we have asked, we have not received any answers at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u7	Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, a special speaker from the Democratic Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, Mr Vice-President, we wish you every success. I would like you to allow me to begin with a subject which I think you, as Vice-President, should resolve here in the House and in general the government. It is the matter of days, which is nothing other than the two soldiers who are in Adrianopolis prisons. Mr. Vice President, I read that the Minister of National Defence said they were hostages. Today the Deputy Minister, Mr. Kouvelis, said it was not. The government must finally, before requesting national consultation, consult within it as to whether they are hostages or not. We all accept that they are heroes, but we must accept that the government cannot go this way. Minister, because we have had a question as a parliamentary group on the government's development action, we want to believe that now that you have become Minister, you will come to the House to reply. That question counts for six months. On the subject of this bill, Mr Dimas has also been mentioned. Look at that. We can't talk twice and we can't have heard the government. This is unique in time. Even you, Minister, should have read what we have said to the committees so that you can come to us at some point and answer these questions. Anyway. I want to raise a few issues. The SYRIZA Government, while bringing in the Community directive, some time ago by hypocrisy passed laws that undermine the Community directive. I will tell you two - three examples. What does the Community directive want to do? It wants to work for victims of unfair competition, consumers and businesses, establishing criteria or anything else. Minister, in the last multi-project with the prerequisites you have abolished the mandatory commercial guarantee. How does one tie to the other? How is it done at the same time that you are asking to operate for victims of unfair competition, you to abolish the compulsory commercial guarantee, effectively giving the large multinationals a gift? Let us also raise a second point. On the basis of the Community directive proposed by the Government, it says '... to create a legal environment that is more friendly to the weak links of the free competition chain, indirect buyers, small and medium-sized enterprises and consumers, who...' - writes what you are proposing - '... are discouraged from recourse to legal remedies'. That's right. Do you, Minister, remember that you voted for compulsory mediation? Did you forget? What does 'compulsory mediation' mean, Minister? It is not optional, as it is throughout Europe. ‘Compulsory’ means that everyone will be required to go to the Ombudsman. You oblige them to go to the Ombudsman to pay what they pay - the lawyer told you how much they will pay - and then, in the end, if they cannot, go to the courts. But then what do we vote for the directive, since we encourage them to bring legal proceedings? Thirdly, with regard to Article 5, I am reading it to you just to see what it has to do with another issue, your favorite "NOVARTIS": "The imposition of a fine on a party who has unjustifiedly not provided the evidence or destroyed it or has failed to comply with a provision of a judicial decision". This directive gives a distinctive right to determine the amount of this fine. The government that defines it? Between 50,000 and 100,000 euros. Let's go now to your case, the well-known 'NOVARTIS' case, which I understand you don't want to show on the channel of Parliament, while you had such a great love for the truth to shine. We have said to show it every day and to be able to learn the whole truth, because the mud, Minister, to anyone who lives - and you will see this - is not helping you anymore. As the "Indignant"s started them by other parties, and at the end you took them, I fear that the mud at the end will be taken by fascists and neonazis, because they want there to be mud and fish in blush waters. But let's go to this now. Let us assume that a competitor leads NoVARTIS to justice because it did not provide the evidence. The fine to be imposed on NOVARTIS, which you say has 23 billion - I take your own numbers so that we do not waste our time - will be to pay from EUR 50,000 to EUR 100,000 and say that the evidence has been lost. This will be done with all the great multinationals. They will say 'we lost the evidence', they will pay 50,000 to 100,000 and they will end the matter. Is that an incentive? It's an incentive for the big multinationals to do this. Article 8. Minister, we have told you, we have told you again, and we hope you can hear it. It is appropriate that Law 3959/2011, which concerns the Competition Committee, should be formulated accordingly, that all procedures change and that all in a way that does not delay entering the website. It is very important for the companies that go and wait for the decisions of the Competition Committee to have all the full information. You will allow me to make a few comments on the amendments, Minister. Amendment No 1502/23 is on the first issue concerning the deadlines for the EEAS. We are also waiting for the Minister in charge. We are positive in this direction. On the second point, Mr Koutsoukos will speak. Amendment No 1509, which is Single Protection, is yours, of your Ministry. This is the creation of the PASOK government in 2012 with Law 4072/2012. It was necessary to simplify export and import procedures. The Ministry of Development has been responsible for this system so far and you are transferring it to the Customs Office, the Independent Authority of the Ministry of Finance. We're not negative. We would like to see why it is precisely the case and what your experience is from this. It would be very important to listen to exporters too. You could do that earlier to listen to exporters, that is, what they say about it, those who are really interested. Is this a request from this body? Now let's go to the last one. Information system PPC or ‘e-pde’. Now listen, Minister. I think you'll be informed accordingly. The ‘e-pde’ was integrated into the NSRF 2007-2013. It ended in 2016 and had to work since 2017. We're in 2018. What do you want? "We ask to do it manually for one year until 2019." That's what you're saying, that's what you're saying. So your government, where do you want to take it into space by building space technologies, can't build 'e-pde'? In fact, Minister, I wonder how this is going to be done. Secondly, you will allow me to tell you something else that is not the only problem. This is where you have to pay to the NRP. You have not paid up to 31-12-2017 nor one euro. What for? Because you have a problem with the Information System of State Aid, which provided for a specific project with the ICM, which you were unable to finally manage to do, and at the moment no one is paying for it, just the old development. We, ladies and gentlemen of the government, because we are interested in the country coming out of the crisis ten days ago, have really said what the problems are because of which the ESRB cannot proceed. The first is that. The second is the Spirtzi Act. The Spirtzi Act you're changing. You have now brought in provisions that change so that the ESDP can move forward. At least you heard us. Here too - because this is incompetent - so that the final beneficiaries can be paid. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we will hear from the mouth of the new Minister, who will help to promote the development of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u9	I will give the floor to Mr Panayotaro, then I will intrude Mr Petropoulos for five minutes to present his two amendments and continue with the four speakers. When the next minister comes, I'll give him the floor. Come on, Mr. Panayotare, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Arca conspirator, you said something about blurred waters.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u11	We have no fascist shortcuts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u12	Of course, the definition of 'blue water' is you and your party, because if we are to be judged by the judgment of the Munich Peace Court, which condemned Christoforikos and had something to do with a hundred million euros of seafood, haters, the proportion of the hatred they gave to PASOK and the New Democracy, the more than two hundred million euros you owe as a party, which you found to justify on paper towels and everything else, probably does not get you to talk about blur water in general. Because in the new dictionaries they should be next to the "blue waters" have the PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u13	We're not neonazi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u14	You're thieves and crooks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u15	Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u16	Say what you want, dear short-sighted. You're diving in the mitt until the medal. We must not start listing your ministers who have been persecuted in the past. Others were imprisoned as common crooks and went by saying. It was more common, our dear companion. We are talking about fraudulent ordinary criminal law. Let go, because if I start talking, we won't be done. We'll eat all 15 minutes. We also heard Mr. Kouvelis in his unfortunate statements this morning saying that they are not hostages and continue to try to degrade the fact that the two Greek soldiers hostage and tell various stories, that "we support and thank and we are satisfied that the whole case has been left in the courts of Andrianoupolis". Well, are you serious? Do you think this case will be dealt with by a judge of the local court, without any other external intervention directly from the President of Turkey or from elsewhere? If you believe all of this, you are extremely dangerous as the most naive, not to mention anything else that exists. And who is he who inspires our soldiers and not just? The lawyer of conscientious objections, all those who did not want to serve the mother country. One goes wrong after the statements made by NATO's most official lips. What did they say about 'drug'? That's what they called her. "Find it between you." All these heavy statements by the Greek officials of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL that Greece's borders are Europe's borders and that they are European soldiers and all that, where did they go? In the trash. There again the words Kazantzakis come: "If you long for freedom, don't hope to strangers. Take it yourself if you can, otherwise you don't deserve it." We have fished, ending the comment, the visit of the former PASOK MP, Mr Hatziosman, who, as a member of the Turkish diplomatic mission, accompanied the Turkish Vice-President on an official visit to Somalia. I say this to see what is going on inside and outside this Hall. All those who, over years as carpoises, received from anyone, whether from Turks or from Skopje or from Albanians, the slaps from each other, will remind them of two incidents. It was in the late 1970s when the Turks started air violations in Iran. The Iranian Air Force downloaded a Turkish warplane, a Fantom, at an airport in Iran, sent the pilot back to Turkey with the transport and held the plane and so far flies with Iran's colors. Since then, no violation of Iran's airspace has been carried out by the Turks. Let us also remind ourselves of something else, because we are talking about strong and less powerful or anything: it was about two years ago when a US Navy ship in the Straits of Ormuz entered Iran's territorial waters. They were both arrested and held captive. They formally apologized both America and the Navy sailors. Then they were released. For that draft law incorporating Directive 2014/104/EU of the European Parliament into Greek law certain rules governing the procedure for bringing actions for damages under national law for infringements of the provisions of competition law in the Member States of the European Union. The aim of this directive - supposedly - is to help those natural and legal persons who have been harmed by infringements of the rules of fair competition in order to claim damages to the national courts for the damage they have suffered. The institutions of the European Union demand the incorporation of this directive into national law, with the aim - always at the theoretical level - of harmonising with that of national law and increasing the effectiveness of the private enforcement of competition rules, namely the exercise of actions in domestic civil courts against public enforcement, which is a task of the national competition authorities and the competent public bodies. The question is whether the public interest, apart from the interests of individuals, is adequately protected in this way. This is because, by weakening the public enforcement of competition law rules, which comes under national law, the supervisory and control role of the State and the national competition authorities - supposedly - are a security test for the public interest is inevitably weakened. Furthermore, only conclusively and hypothetically will injured citizens be facilitated to claim compensation for the damage suffered as a result of infringements of competition law, since, in practice and in fact, much more so after the recent legislation of compulsory mediation as a condition for the admissibility of an action, it is questionable whether the affected citizens will be able to bear the costs of legal proceedings and, in fact, they will be contrary to unequal conditions to companies which infringe competition law. On the contrary, in order to avoid a judicial defeat, the defendant companies may choose to conceal, even to destroy, evidence, since they are in fact very little affected by the highly low data for companies threatened with financial penalties of EUR 50,000 to EUR 100,000, which are provided for as sanctions in Article 5 of this draft law in the event of non-produced or concealed evidence. The position of the defendant companies is further facilitated by the restrictions imposed by Article 7 on the possibility of using evidence contained in the competition authority’s file. In addition, the short five-year limitation provided for in Article 8 in conjunction with the vagueness of the wording of the first paragraph of that Article, as to when the injured person may be considered to have been aware of the damage, infringement and identity of the offender, is an element which also operates in the interests of the companies involved and to the detriment of the injured person. In addition to the provisions of Article 13 above, special courts shall be set up to judge the cases in question, which shall be based in Athens and which shall be the place in which the whole of the territory is situated, which will undoubtedly bear an additional burden and a financial burden on those outside Athens who have been injured. Furthermore, with the proposed arrangements, the risk of future conflicts between the judges is obvious, since a number of actions in question are already in place before the existing courts. Confusion and insecurity of law further exacerbates Article 16, where this provision stipulates that there will be infinite legal problems of an infinite nature when adopting future judicial decisions, which may relate to even the unconstitutionality of such rules. With an overall view of the proposed provisions, we conclude that, once again, the draft law is being passed on to European law and the immunity of multinationals and cartels is not being effectively combated, so that small and medium-sized enterprises and professional groups in our country, which have been, constituted and will be the backbone of our national economy, remain unprotected. With the proposed regulations, domestic legislation must be adapted to the requirements and decisions of the bureaucrats, Brussels and all of them, which serve only the interests of multinationals and not the same states, which make up the European Union. This bill is supposed to be trying to create antitrust legislation. Of course, so far, nothing has been done at all and we see that there is no prospect of the various cartels being smashed away from our homeland. In all areas we will find a cartel: There are the cartels of mobile telephony companies, which are supposed to have brought competition, and therefore, better invoices and we see that, by magic, they all, with little difference, increased, in the middle of a crisis, once again. We see the same thing as the cost of electricity. While the market is supposed to be liberalised in order for new companies to enter, there is therefore competition, but Greece is the most expensive country in Europe and prices are close. In roadworks the big party was held, and so far you have not touched any big-workers in our homeland. They are the ones who do so abroad, in whatever country, in Skopje, in Bulgaria, in Cyprus, or in Cyprus or elsewhere, who are persecuting them for hatred, laundry, speaking contracts and everything else. The same ones, of course, who are in all the abovementioned companies, as we have said, are also in the management of the waste that is the new 'blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blowing-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blowing-blowing-blowing-blue-blowing-blowing-blue-blowing-blowing-blue-blowing-blowing-blue-blowing-blowing-blowing-blowing-blowing-blue-blowing-blue-blowing-blowing-blue-blowing-blowing-blue-blowing-blowing-blowing-blowing-blowing-blowing-blowing-bangs. We also see SYRIZA - who had a completely different line, until it became a government - now that it has dealt with the previous ones and said exactly the same about waste management issues. Renewables too are doing the same. In the midst of a crisis, we see food going up to Greece and prices being close to all supermarkets, as if there were a magical invisible bagget and setting prices and no one doing anything about it. Same goes for drugs. The debate is taking place in the Commission on 'NOVARTIS'. They're coming out 'rabbits'. The former Prime Minister sent handwritten notes with his signature and his letters to the President of "NOVARTIS". And we haven't seen too many things. We believe that the way in which power is managed by all the political forces, which have ruled our country over the period from the relocation to the present day, proves that legislation, such as this draft law, is only being passed, because either the European Union obliges them or to throw ashes into the eyes of the world. They create an illusion of transparency and legality, in a country where for decades the real rules laid down not the existing legislation, but the law of each of the "SIEMENS", of each of the "NOVARTIS" and the compensation was given, not to the citizens through judicial decisions, but to the managers of a rotten political system. And these "remunerations" - within many introductorys - were given either "PAMPERS", dear co-topite or lately with "SAMSONITE" trailers. We are against the principle, on the articles and on the amendments, and our parliamentary representative will be placed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Constantinople, I saw you. I'm doing the process. You stay where you are and you wait. In my opinion, there is no question, but because there is a comfortable time, you will take the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories twenty-five students and students and five teachers attending the Ancient Olympia High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] MEP George Kasapidis seeks permission from absence abroad from 15 March to 19 March 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u19	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The procedure will be as follows: Mr Petropoulos will speak five minutes, I will give the floor to Mr Constantinople, which I assume he wants to speak on staff, to speak for one or two minutes and to continue normally with Mr Vardalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u20	Is Mr. Petropoulos leaving or can we ask him questions?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u21	To speak, and if there are issues for clarification, there will be another five to ten minutes. Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. The following amendments are inserted: Amendment Nos 1502 and 23 deal with organisational issues in the EIA. There are no changes that need to be modified in the relevant organogram. It is simply possible to delimit the territorial competence of certain regional directorates of the EIA and certain issues, entirely practical, which are regulated by the Ministry. Under General Number 1511 and Special Amendment 26, the relevant provisions on the insurance capacity of all persons insured in the single social security scheme, to the ECA, are uniformly regulated. A positive outlook is created because it is foreseen that those who pay an insurance contribution from 1-1-2017 onwards, regardless of whether there were old debts, will be subject to the insurance capacity provisions. This is a measure that relieves an important part of the population, which, unfortunately, under the economic conditions that had precedented, had been decommissioned by the social security system. We generalise medical coverage, full for all those who pay contributions from 1-1-2017 onwards. It's something we've been talking about all this time. It's time we act. We extend insurance to categories of population, which, for example, did not have the right to receive children or grandchildren if parents do not exist. We have an extension of coverage for the ages of up to twenty-six years, of the twenty-four, of all the children they study, not only in higher education institutions, but also in schools that are TEI or other lower education grades, as long as they study in them. Their insurance in these cases is therefore extended in time. We also have an extension of insurance capacity to specific vulnerable categories, which we must take special care of. These cases are listed in the layout. I don't want to expand. I will be at the disposal of the Members and Members of Parliament to answer questions that may exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u24	How do you like to fly, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u25	Stand up!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u26	We're on our way. Mr. Dimas, would you like some clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u27	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u28	Now let's go to Mr. Koutsuko. I am not giving you the floor, Mr. Constantinople, on personal grounds, to leave Mr. Petropoulos. Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for a clarification question. I don't give time. I hope you're short
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u29	I shall confine myself to the clarifications, because I shall be placed on the substance when the time comes. Minister, you are due, when you are posted by this Step, to speak with the language of the truth in the House. You said you brought in some organizational provisions for the APRC. Mr. Minister, bring in an amendment to the Ministry's Agency, n.e.c. 134/2017, which only a few months ago came into force, and you change the whole Agency. Others you are improving, otherwise you are changing provisions. And as I have been informed, because I want to operate institutionally, by the President of the Federation of Workers of the Ministry of Labour, not only have you done a basic consultation, but you have not even informed the workers. What's that thing? Did Mrs Ahchioglu have you come here to tell us that you are making some organizational changes and going to trap the House? That's the one question. I come to the second question on the other amendment, Mr Minister. You're trying to cover some teams, extending health care requirements. My question is this: What is the reason why you institutionalise the increase in wages for workers, from fifty to seventy-five, in order to have insurance cover for health services? I am staying in detail, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u30	All right, Mr. Kutsuko. Mr Minister, take note of everything and I will give you the floor to close down, answering all my colleagues in total. Mr. Panayiot, would you like to ask something?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u31	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Saridis, would you like to ask something?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u33	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u35	Mr Minister, first of all, let us say that this amendment is twenty-seven pages and the report by the General Accounting Office of the State mentions the existence of expenditure, but does not specify them. My first question is: to what extent will these costs reach? There is also the following question: We were supposed to be aiming at unifying all the fragmented funds that exist and having uniform rules. So since the resolution of the Katorugalou Act, which has become a crossword, we have constantly exceptions and differentiations. Therefore, persons considered as members of a pensioner's family are being redefined. When did this come up and by what design? Also, as Mr Koutsoukos said, you are increasing the conditions - and you are making it difficult for a employee - of fifty days' work, which was the requirement and condition, in order to have health care, for seventy-five days of work. What for? Also, there are various changes: Land workers, rewarded with bachelorship, if they have worked a hundred and fifty days or more, are caring. The same applies to civil servants, if they are on unpaid leave, provided they pay their contributions. I would like to ask: why are there all these differences? What's the targeting? There are also in this amendment extensions for sickness benefits up to 28 February 2019 in different types of insured persons. And I would like here to ask where this need has come from and how it is being costed. I'm not negative, but I want to see the evidence. You are also providing insurance for the employees in the company under the name ‘DETERMINATION OF GREECE’. How many are there? What insurance did they have so far? What is this exception for? I'm telling you, the Katorugalou law has become a Scandinavian crossword. We have said 'NOV' to the Katorugalou law and we will also say 'NOV' to this amendment. I'm waiting for your answers, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u36	Minister, I don't give time. You are straightforward and you can answer to everyone in total.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. When we legislated on Law No.4387, we did not say that we would resign from now on from whatever obligation to legislate. And this never happened, by the establishment of the Greek state, not to take legislative initiatives for any changes. If you look at the legal history, in terms of social security, every year there were arrangements. Always! I don't understand why it's strange to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u38	Because there are too many of them!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u39	There are too many of them and in the future there will be others and it will always be what it needs to be, seeing that we are building a new system. After all, the law itself, if you look at its original provisions, left for the continuation of a number of issues that would need more specific regulation through the organization of the EBRD. On a number of issues, for example those mentioned in debt arrangements to the EEAS, it has a general reference to the law at the time and it did not expressly state that debts to individuals, who are insured, must be regulated. It only regulated debts to EEIG providers and to health systems in general. That was a omission for public administration officials. For reasons of legal certainty, they also specifically requested that the payment of debts to persons, to persons, to persons, to be insured, be mentioned as such. There was an old omission, it's not current - it's not nr.4387 - and we're regulating it. It's from the old law, which has been in place since 2014 and before. I'm not here to explain. They're always gonna need these. As regards increasing the limits, as I said in my introduction to the amendments, we have defined in uniform rules the general provisions relating to the placing of insurance capacity. The necessary unification was taken into account in establishing this timeframe. It has been since 2019, since 50 days at seventy-five. In the debate that will follow, Mr Amyras, to listen to your thoughts, what is it that you are proposing? There will be an appropriate debate in Parliament to see the final provision. But that was the purpose, unification of the rules. Do not blame the initiative, because the main thing that this legislative initiative achieves is to cover everyone in social security for medical care. For this reason, there is provision for special categories, not only in vulnerable groups, people with disabilities, for those whose businesses had, for reasons of the past, an uncovered insurance period and had no health coverage. This law provides it. That is where your question about railway undertakings arises. I don't remember exactly how it refers to the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u40	Rolling stock.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u41	Rolling stock. There is a gap in the coverage of workers who, because of the situation created by their own fault, have been uncovered and we are covering such cases. That is the purpose of the provision. It's nothing different we wanted to achieve. Expenditure shall be specified. Thank God, revenues are going very well, we have no fear of meeting such health care needs. And the extension to new persons is precisely for this purpose, because our aim is not to keep anyone out of sight of the completeness of insurance benefits. We expanded, as I said, to those who didn't have insurance cover, like disabled children.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u42	All right. Finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u43	We shall be discussing your own proposals and our own thoughts in the debate, so that we can end up in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u44	Good. Mr Constantinople has the floor for two minutes, although, in my view, there was no personal issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u45	There was a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u46	No surrogate mention of your face. That's personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u47	I want to tell you something: I talked about neo-nazis and fascists. If some people recognized on their faces what I said, that's their thing. I would like to raise two issues: Unfortunately, the government, the majority of the Parliament, when it agrees to care for people who, within Parliament, speak of and become the drug dealers of Erdogan, saying about Turkish MPs, we give everyone the right to burn Turkish flags, so that the 'Greek Lykes' also burn Greek flags and feed hate. So we should not allow this to happen. They know we're very proud, because we didn't meet in a square with neonazis, either up or down square.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, I would like to speak. Who are you addressing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u49	Don't generalize things. Mr. Xydakis, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u50	Why are you up, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u51	Anyway, you asked for the floor. I'll give it to you. Mr Xydakis, since you requested the floor, I will give it to you, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u52	We are very proud, because we have set the framework of anti-racist law. And I want to tell them something more personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u53	But you must finish, Mr. Constantinople. It had nothing to do with what you mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u54	I am very proud, because my grandfather Odysseus Constantinople, fighting them Nazis in the last battle in Santa Kynurias, gave his life, left three orphans and a widow. For a lifetime, I'll fight against the neonazis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Panayiot, would you like to answer for a moment? Because I want to be okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u56	As a neonazi?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u57	You have a minute, even though I repeat it wasn't a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u58	We are returning their designations as unacceptable. It means us - and that is why I answered - but our descriptions for specifics - I will recall some names - Chohatzopoulos, Papantoniou, Tsukatos, Tsovola, Koutsochorigas, Athanasopoulos, Anthopoulos and others...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u59	It's not polite to talk about people who aren't in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u60	...and others, of course, of some of the governors of PPC who were getting gifts. And the former Prime Minister said "then he got a little gift, but very big". These are real facts. Now, whether we want to talk about my grandparents and who were fighting with who, I'd be happy to do it whenever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u61	Mr Xydakis has the floor for a minute or two, and then we proceed to the bill. How do we manage a quiet bill to put a burrito on him, I don't get it. Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u62	I would like to refer to some of Mr Constantinople's remarks about the fact that the majority in Parliament is not dealing with neo-nazis. I find them unscrupulous, unscrupulous and, indeed, I wonder how my colleague makes them clear. The day before yesterday, Mr. Cassidy was fooled by Mr. Cassidy in the committee. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has raised a point of order. I have taken the floor as a parliamentary representative within the committee and have called on all political forces to condemn it and either to withdraw or to be expelled. He finally left. Where did he see these? Where has Mr Constantinople seen the tolerance within Ethiopia, but also outside, in the public social area? When did the Left tolerate the neo-nazis, the submarines and the bracelets of the night? I don't know what he means from there on squares, etc. These things are said in the cafeterias and not in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u63	Written your opinion. Mr. Bardalis, apologising for the delay, I invite you to climb the Step. Mr. Vardalis, Mr. Lazarides, will speak, I will give the floor to Mr. Haritsis, and we will close with the other two speakers. Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill and the incorporation of this directive of the European Union in the JRC's opinion is a good opportunity for a substantial debate on issues which the European Union itself raises, namely its purpose, which it itself comes to serve. Why, for example, did the European Union feel the need to adopt such a directive? What's she useful to? There is talk of a directive which has to do with the foundations for the creation and functioning of the European Union itself, that is to say, to ensure and shield the principles of competition and the competitiveness of businesses. It is clear from the substance of the provisions, the time period and the whole economic and political context of this period, which is laid down in this directive, that the main concern of the European Union is to protect European monopolies in their competition with similar monopolies of the United States of America, Russia, China and others. This is a sound, but hard economic war between business groups, between monopolies. This directive seeks to lay down certain rules on increasingly fierce competition between business groups. So, in the JRC's opinion, this is an issue which concerns business groups and none at all, and it has nothing to do with workers and people's interests. After all, we are seeing this trade war at this time, with the view of imposing a fine on imports of steel and aluminium, on the other hand, on the reactions of the European Union itself. It is revealing indeed that parallel decisions and legislation are adopted at an increasing pace by the European Union itself, with a more specific example of the European Commission's decision to control or stop investments made by monopolies from these countries on Euro-Union soil. The effect of unequal growth increases competition, uncertainty, but also the cohesion of specific alliances, the risk of wider generalization and the imperialist war. At the same time, hypocrisy is being increased by the fighters of isolation, because both of them and the fighters of isolation on the one hand and the supporters of protectionism on the other, that is, all of them, have the same gospel, that is, the exploitation of workers. From the present, but essentially hypocritical, confrontation of the capital representatives must not be lost the main, regardless of any proportion of free trade or protected trade. The main thing is that capitalists are increasing their profits. The huge monopolies are giggled and all together are fruitful of the huge wealth that the working class produces. It is characteristic that in the last eight years of the crisis, the wealth of billionaires has increased annually by 13%. Such directives and provisions as are called upon to do are the arbitrator between business groups, monopolies, with a tool for the national Competition Committees, authorities that act as depositors of the ideals of competition and have nothing to do with defending the interests of workers as consumers, through the daily pillaging of the incomes of which this policy is to be achieved, namely the safeguarding of the profits of multinational groups. Here, of course, we are not talking about the right to compensation from such practices for the simple consumer, but about opposing businesses. That's what this is about. The government and all the other parties in the Opposition claim that this is about armoring healthy competition and that this healthy competition is of course implying that they will also have popular strata as consumers. However, such a claim has nothing to do with reality. First of all, I "protect competition" means perpetuating the law that says that big fish eats the little fish, because that is what happens to competition between business groups. The problem is itself competition, the market and not market distortions, free competition and ‘an unhealthy functioning of the market’. The reality proves that capitalist competition leads to monopolies, cartels. Currently, configured cartels exist both in Greece and throughout the European Union in all sectors of the economy, milk, food, fuel, energy, telecommunications and banks. In all cases they operate at the expense of the folk layers. That's the truth. Just, the ruling and other partners of the European Union, the fans of the liberalisation of markets and of healthy competition, pretend that they do not know that the development of this capitalist system is a continuous process of growth of business groups. That's what this is about. What has life shown by the development of competition, for example, over many years? Isn't he the one who wipes out the professionals and the small dealers? From the further development of competitiveness, what will be the fate of all the small and medium-sized towns and villages? You all support the development of the primary sector, but you are hiding from farmers and farmers that this development requires large competitive rural and livestock enterprises and at the same time the dismantling of small and medium-sized farms. And the words you use have their meaning too. That's why you're talking about business farmers. You're aware. What has been proved in practice is that competition is the dominance of monopolies. With competition, it is becoming more and more difficult for fewer and more to concentrate more and more on the wealth of society, while many, that is, the workers and the rest of the people, are forced into less and less. This objective of developing competitiveness, which is the objective of capital, is that of doing everything in your power to adopt it and workers, making it their own goal, promising that increasing profitability through business competition will also be for the benefit of workers. That is, of course, what BSE itself says, if we continue to implement a policy that further reduces the taxation of business groups, the non-wage costs, the high cost of energy, time-consuming permits and more, more simply, if this urban state continues to facilitate their investment initiatives. You call on the workers to support all this, to increase their profits, that is to say, for the workers themselves God has! Maybe there's no bones falling from the table and the big foodstuff of business groups and workers. That is why the BSE in the memo sent to committee argues that the incorporation of the directive contributes to the strengthening of competition and the proper functioning of the markets in the Greek economy, and fully agrees with the incorporation of this directive. You say all this, when people's households are squeezing under the black taxes, monopolies at the same time enjoy provocative tax exemptions and alleviations when they can move their capital into tax havens and tax them legally, taking advantage of the basic principle of the operation of the European Union itself, which is the freedom of movement of capital, when all governments and the current government have created a whole range of capital protection, including banking confidentiality, commercial secrecy and other security barriers. In short, here we are dealing with organised robbery at the expense of workers to take advantage of the over-profits of business groups. So when these are issues such as capitalist growth, the competition we are discussing, issues that shield the profitability of business groups, they really have the taste to hear you all agree in this Chamber with this particular directive and with all these issues that I have mentioned to you. After all, you did the same thing the other day by privatising the port of Thessaloniki and not just. Any issues that go through, which have an economic interest in business groups, all but all of you - and government and opposition parties - raise your hand. Above all for you are the profits of those who own the funds. In the name of safeguarding the competition rules, the European Union has specific objectives, which part of it is also served by this directive. In addition, the explanatory statement states that the use of compensation for infringements of competition rules is a key axis of the recent Union competition policy. What seems clear, that is, that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government applies faithfully and is trying to do its utmost to implement precisely this European Union policy to shield competitiveness, to shield competition. In fact, the current government has another goal: to pass through the illusions it is cultivating. You are presenting yourself as defending 'fair' - within introductory terms the word 'competition against neoliberalism' and, of course, the European Union, which is supposed to guarantee precisely this 'fair' competition. In other words, you want him healthy, as if the people benefit from this healthy competition, while the unfairness is being destroyed. Your policy is also unfolding with the harmful view that SYRIZA has been putting forward for years to the people about the possibility of humanisation, a moral capitalism. Competition, however, is of the business groups and operates only for their own benefit, no matter what it is, whether it is fair or unfair. Ladies and gentlemen, in the draft law any natural or legal person involved in the market who has suffered damages due to infringements of competition rules may demand and obtain full compensation from that damage. In fact, however, use of this possibility will in practice be made mainly by large business groups and multinational enterprises and their partners. The tool of compensation will be used mainly against smaller enterprises and simple professionals. It will increase the pressure on smaller businesses and professionals, based on infringements of competition rules. It should be noted here that the relevant procedures are technical and specific and require serious legal and other proven support, which is much more available to large businesses. The individual ‘operators’ of the draft law, such as in Article 14, operate in exactly the same direction. That is to say, they will facilitate large businesses, through this tool, in their competition with small and free professionals. The directive appears - and this is how the SYRIZA rapporteur, in his report, presented it - as an anti-monopoly and as a control of cartels and those who have a dominant position on the market. But it's exactly, but, exactly, the opposite. Ladies and gentlemen, after all, in the final analysis these technical divisions between healthy and unhealthy chapters, in good and bad monopolies, also aim to make it difficult for workers to see what their real opponent is, that is, their monopolies and their power, the imperialist alliances, such as NATO and the European Union, which bleak and bleed popular strata. Even in the case of work that these phenomena are dealing with - which are not - or are to a certain extent limited, what truth will change for workers? Are workers going to stop living up to the continued deterioration of their rights and needs in order to ensure the profitability of the monopolistic groups? Are the objectives of the chapter to ensure competitiveness, to open up new areas of profitability with all the consequences they have on the labour, insurance and general rights of workers, to be suspended? Will the political system cease to operate on the basis of the support of all these business groups that have political and economic power in their hands? Will the legal stealing of the wealth produced by the workers cease and the capital is plucked? Instructions like the one we are discussing today, the various regulations that allegedly ensure healthy competition, that is to say, ensure the general interests of companies, all they do is to lay down general rules on their own profits, so that they become correct and not piracy business. No change in the rules, the management mix and the correlation of power between business groups and capitalist states is going to change this reality. This reality at the expense of the people only changes with the struggle of the labor and more generally of the people's movement against the profitability of capital, against its bosses and their power. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Lazarides, the special speaker of ANELs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing the incorporation of Directive 2014/104/EU into the Greek legal order, which encourages and facilitates the increase of actions for damages. Every year consumers and businesses are damaged by infringements of free competition law in the European Union, which are estimated at EUR billion, from EUR 13 to EUR 35 billion. This has led to the establishment of a single system in the European Community which will make a significant contribution to the achievement of a common market. The draft law seeks to reduce any obstacles that may exist to enable the victims of cartels to be restored by compensation guaranteed by claims for damages and also to regulate aspects of free competition. In order to achieve this, any natural or legal person who has suffered damage as a result of a breach of Union or national law on the protection of free competition by an undertaking or an association of undertakings may effectively claim and achieve full compensation for the damage suffered. In fact, there can be both direct buyers who buy direct products and indirect buyers, namely those who buy products for further processing. Ladies and gentlemen, the right to compensation in the law of the Union for damages caused by infringements of Union and national competition law requires each Member State to have laid down procedural rules ensuring the effective exercise of that right, to be binding and should be applied globally in the European Union, in order to ensure that there is no distortion of competition in the internal market. The draft law introduces rules to claim full compensation against these undertakings. Furthermore, rules shall be laid down concerning the disclosure of evidence either in the possession of the parties or third persons or in the file of the National Competition Authority, and restrictions on the use and exchange of documents shall be laid down and penalties which may be imposed by the Tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen, rules concerning the liability of undertakings or associations of undertakings which have infringed competition law in respect of the damage caused, the determination of the damage, the limitation period for actions for damages, and the results of consensual arrangements concerning subsequent actions for damages are introduced. It is important that the law determines the validity of the decisions of the National Competition Authorities, as the final decisions of the Competition Committee constitute an unwarranted presumption in the proceedings before a court, while the final decision of the Foreign Competition Authority is a means of demonstrating the fact of the infringement and can be assessed in parallel with other evidence provided by the parties. The ever-increasing establishment and establishment of undertakings in different Member States, subject to different procedural rules and significantly affect the extent to which they can be held responsible for infringements of competition law, make the arrangements we are discussing necessary. This is because the unequal application of the right to compensation in Union law can lead to a competitive advantage for certain undertakings, but also to discourage the exercise of the rights of establishment and the provision of goods or services in Member States where the right to compensation is exercised more effectively. Member States should therefore ensure that uniform collective action is not prevented in a court for disputes between natural or legal persons and that is what is currently being considered. Of course, the Member States are obliged to adopt mechanisms to ensure that confidential information is adequately protected and, in addition, to ensure that legal confidentiality is fully applied. In conclusion, it is possible to bring damages to companies that have infringed the law against restrictions on competition, so as to make it easier for the injured to claim and receive compensation, not only for the cause of direct damage but also for foregone profits, which is seen as a powerful weapon in the attempt to combat the oligopolistic situations in both our European and our domestic markets. The Independent Greeks support the bill, as it promotes the resolution of disputes, even the joint consent to a solution, ensuring that there is no distortion of competition in the internal market. There is a fair provision for small and medium-sized enterprises and for those who have been subject to a leniency regime, which ensures that if one of the undertakings which jointly infringed competition law is small and medium-sized, it is only for its own direct or indirect buyers, since its market share in the market in question is less than 5% and does not bear the full responsibility, which would pose risks to its economic viability. Claims must follow certain clear rules and the provisions governing damages are considered fair and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u67	I give the floor to Mr Haritsis for two, three minutes to present his amendment. Here you go, Minister. I don't give time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna need a minimum of time. The amendment contains two formal provisions - provisions. The first concerns the collective decision-making of the Public Investment Programme. The change provided for in Law4314/2014 for the activation of a system with a single collective project decision to be implemented requires, first of all, the completion of a series of ongoing amendments to the relevant system and, in particular, the activation of the full production function of the information system of the Public Investment Programme, e-pde, which is under way and will be completed in the course of this year. It is therefore proposed by this provision that the application of the specific provision of Law No.4314/2014 should start from 1-1-2019. The second proposed provision corrects the inadvertent failure to refer to the Cohesion Fund under the title of the ERDF Special Secretariat and Cohesion Fund to the Organisation of the Ministry of Economy, Presidential Decree 147/2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u69	As the Minister was extremely brief, I should like to give the floor to Mrs Papanatsiou to present her amendment as well and to close with the amendments and the Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u71	I too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u72	I'd like to, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Haritsi, you obviously mean. You'll do it later. Ms. Papanaceu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, I too will be very brief. My position relates to Amendment Nos 1509 and 24. It is the amendment of Article 38 of Law 4072/2012. There was provision for the development of an information system for electronic services for a stopover to facilitate external trade procedures in the Ministry of Development. The amendment we are now proposing provides for the development of the integrated information system for single-stage electronic services to facilitate external trade procedures in the Independent Public Revenue Authority. There will be a single box, which will also be able to connect with the customs services, since they are considered important in the context of cross-border trade in accordance with Union and international law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u75	We will be going in the order for the clarifications that my fellow Members want to ask. Mr. Dimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this information system has become a little awkward. In the first amendment you are giving an extension of one year because the multi-advertised information system of the Public Investment Programme is not ready. Who guarantees that it will be ready on 1 January 2019? Because it should have been ready for too many years. The second amendment concerns the information system. It does not refer to the amendment when the information system will be ready. I'd like to know when you figure it's ready. Of course, if we also take into account the functioning of the information system for the "Structure by Home II" programme, which we are constantly listening to and which collapsed yesterday, you realize that we have huge failures, not only in the forecasts on when the information systems will work, but even when they are operating, they collapse. I would therefore like to see the two information systems responded to in the two amendments. Firstly, when the information system for the Single Protection System will be ready, because it does not appear in the amendment. In the first amendment, who guarantees that on 1 January 2019 the information system of the Public Investment Programme will be ready when it should have operated for many years?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u77	Mr Minister, you will answer a package. Note that you will hear and answer the end. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, firstly, for the information system - you were not here when I spoke before - I asked the following question: This information system was charged and the contest had been launched by the NRP 2007-2013, it was over in 2016 - if I am not mistaken - and it had to be ready from 2017. So there's one thing: these people who took the money to build the information system, what happened? Did they make it? Why didn't they make it? There's an issue to the company. The company didn't happen on your day, it was earlier. The company, however, delivers. He handed it over? Why didn't he deliver it? Why isn't this system working? Secondly, I would like to ask you, Mr Minister: are you doing a new Special Secretariat?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u79	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u80	Wait, you say: ‘In the Special Secretariat there is a position of the Special Sector Secretary...’. What is Special Sector Secretary? We don't get it. And that's what you'd understand. You say: ‘The Special Sector Secretary is in charge of the Special Secretariat for Sectoral Management...’. So it's a new position.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u81	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u82	Good. The Minister will answer. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I would like to ask two questions about this amendment. First of all, let us say that it is the third extension to operate the information system. L.4314/2016 said that since 1 January 2017 it would have been in operation. A new extension was subsequently granted for 1 January 2018. It wasn't ready. Now, it's the third extension for 1 January 2019. I would like to ask: Is the progress of the Investment Programme affected by the lack of this information system? Also, is the payment of the beneficiaries delayed in the absence of this platform? The truth is, as a government with electronic platforms, you're not doing very well. Indeed, it has fallen the Household Savings since the first day. In a few days, TAXISnet will fall. It has become a Christmas custom, when the system opens up to submitting tax declarations, the system falls. The working group set up for the Investment Project's online platform is a working group of the Ministry and you expect some technical data - or other - or is it a private company, which, for some reasons, we would like you to explain to us, has not completed this work? That's all I wanted to say. We shall vote on Mrs Papanatsiou's amendment. It's positive. It's good that the Single Freedom is going to the Independent Public Authority...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u84	You will refer them to your position on Mrs Papanatsiou's amendment. Now we're asking questions. Mr Minister, you have the floor to answer the three colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that I do not understand why it is being created - I want to believe unwisely - a confusion in relation to different information systems. We are talking here about this amendment, and it refers to the OSCE alone. It does not refer to any other information system. You have now mixed up the 'Six Finance'. There are other procedures, other systems, they have nothing to do with what we are discussing with this amendment. And that is a very important system, a system that has been implemented in recent years. It is being activated and in place at the moment of productive operation, so that it is ready to accept the forecasts of this arrangement, namely the one and only ESAs for the entire Public Investment Programme, and that is why we are calling for this provision, so that I can answer and link the questions that have been kindly put to one another. On the contrary, if we did not go through this provision, this extension, if you want - and this is something that comes from the demand and from the regions, which write a lot of projects in the public investment programme - would create a very serious problem and a great deal of confusion in the functioning of the system, precisely because the provision of Law No.4314 did not take into account a system that included hundreds of SACs, a multi-teaching system which, in order to be settled and unified, requires a long-term process. I should also like to reply to Mr Amyras' last question regarding the working party. It is indeed a working group, which we have set up precisely in order to be able to put a class in this bourgeois system, which, beyond the members of our Ministry, of the Directorate responsible for Public Investment, also receives technical assistance from the European Commission's Structural Reform Support Office, SRSS. It is a complex issue that we are dealing with. The electronic public investment system, the information system, is under operating conditions today that we are talking about. But, of course, in order to be absolutely safe and not to cause problems with the implementation of hundreds of projects, I tell you that the opposite would happen if we proceeded with this amendment. We are asking for this extension. Now, in relation to Mr Constantinople's question, it is a question which I must say I did not understand very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u86	It's for the special sectoral secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u87	I think the amendment is quite clear. There is a position. There is no new position. There is a Special Secretariat for Regional ERDF and Cohesion Fund programmes. I say that for those who do not know about it, a European Regional Development Fund means a European Regional Development Fund. By mistake to the Ministry's establishment plan, two letters, the Cohesion Fund, were excluded from the title of the special secretary responsible. He's not a special special secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u88	It's clarified. It needed clarification, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u89	For the company, you didn't answer, because it's not over...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u90	Yeah. The system, as I told you, is running. As you know, at the moment we're talking, there's work going into the system. We are now in constant contact with the company, because as you know, such a system, so large and complex, requires corrections, requires improvements. The next time, these improvements will also be made so that we can be fully ready for the new system of one CSCE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, eighteen students and students and four teachers from the 18th Lamia Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Ioannis Saridis, a special speaker from the Centroon Union, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek language is very deep. In recent years, the Greeks have learned many new words. We have been forced to learn these words. Who was using the word "memory" ten years ago? Who understood it? Who and who could then predict the importance that this word would ultimately have for us here today in Greece. So we learned the word'memorandum' and learned it about good as something inevitable, as something necessary, something that we should definitely do, an extortion to which we have been subject, a defeat that we have eaten and which we have not yet dubbed. In addition to the new words, however, we have also learned some of the words we have already known that they can change their meaning, their content in an almost magical manner, depending on who is using these words. So, after meeting us with the memorials, when we asked to tell us why what is happening to us is happening to our country, we were informed by responsible lips that all this was done for our good to return development to our country. That's what they told us. To achieve this, as our friends, partners, our allies, have been more competitive. "To come to growth, you should become more competitive." That's what they told us. Everything that we are doing is done to become more competitive, to make the Greek economy more competitive, because if we do not manage this, we were threatened that we would never see growth in our country. Since then, when all these details have been explained to the Greek people and after the citizens have seen the word 'no' lose its meaning and it has come to the point that we are listening to the words 'free market', 'competitiveness', 'development' and 'cold sweat'. So under these circumstances, we are today called upon to explain to the citizens the content of European directive 104, which we must incorporate into our national law in the context of our European obligations and, indeed, under the threat of imposing a fine, as we are already too late. This European directive, 104/2014, attempts to strengthen the possibility of those who think they were wronged, those who believe that the competition rules have not been complied with and to proceed to claim compensation from those who have violated the principles of the free market. In other words, because it has become common in Europe to violate the principles of free trade, unrestricted competition and to win competition in fraudulent ways, Europe is forced to tighten up its existing institutional framework. This effort to tighten up and control aims to ensure healthy competition, the one based on relations between costs and demand, quality and supply, and not on public and social relations between politicians and entrepreneurs. This is exactly where it emerges that another question is being raised as important: is it enough for a law? Are the laws enough to protect entrepreneurship and impose healthy conditions of competition? The Greek experience, ladies and gentlemen, says that it is not enough. It is not enough in this country, because many of them at most time do not apply. How many times have we heard it, how many times have we said that we have ‘In Greece we have laws but often do not apply them’? Where did the Greeks see healthy competition running in his country? How did they work for him, how did all these provisions protect his pocket, all those articles in the relevant laws regulating competitiveness issues? When did the Greeks feel won because the rules of the free market were respected? Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks do not know what it is like for healthy competition to function, neither in the face of nor in the hearing. We haven't seen this in Greece and we don't know. On the contrary, we have seen dozens of opposite and negative examples from who will take the championship, until what medicine the doctor will write to you, from how many television channels operate to who will take off the roads, from who buys ports, airports, our seas and what we have taken off the hammer, until when the metro will be made in my city, Thessaloniki. On all these issues and on dozens of others, the Greek ladies and gentlemen already know the answer. And it's the same, believe me: The strongest and most networked. That's the answer! There has never been healthy competition in this country and not at all. I am very sorry, but this incorporation of the European directive into our national law is done in our own, our own particular, national way. We have taken what the Europeans have proposed and adapted to the Greek reality, the one that - I repeat - does not know what healthy competition means, has never tasted its good. The results of this adjustment are exaggerated and give cause for concern, as they weaken, ladies and gentlemen, the validity of this law. For example, Article 3 refers to the possibility for all natural and legal persons to claim compensation. And one would think that we have all covered them, but that is not the case because we have forgotten the consumer associations. Has it not been considered appropriate or necessary to provide for the possibility of collective action by consumer associations by means of a special provision? What should we assume? That in practice there will be so much obstacles to ordinary citizens, that it will not even protect them? Downstream, in Article 5, it looks like we've forgotten and left a window open, it's wide open, I'd say it's on my side. What do we predict if a party claims to have lost evidence by mistake? We provide for fines. And what fines are these, ladies and gentlemen? They are fines, the amount of which makes them meaningless and insignificant for the size of companies, whose behaviour we hope to monitor and co-ordinate with the incorporation of the European directive with number 104. The directive provides that penalties which may be imposed by national courts must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. Where is this in our version? Where is this in Greek reality? It's nowhere! We did not follow it at this point in the directive. We did not take it into account and that reasonably raises many questions. The provisions of Article 13(1) on the possibility of the special section of the Athens Court of First Instance being served by Judges with mere experience in commercial law in general, should the necessary number of specialised judges be lacking in order to form the Chamber. This reference in the Central Association's view does not ensure the quality of judges who will be called upon to deal with important cases in such a sensitive area. Another influence of Greek reality! And as if not all of this were enough, in Article 18 we have been called upon to legislate, namely that there is retroactive power in the bill since 27 December 2016, today, March 2018. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] What are you going to comment on, ladies and gentlemen, all this? Ladies and gentlemen, these are difficult times. In fact - and not to play with words - in Greece healthy competition has never existed, nor will there be as long as we continue to retreat against the famous Greek reality, which is based on the principle that big fish eats the little fish, that cork floats, that whoever has barbas in Koronis is more useful than degrees, skills, skills and that if you have money and acquaintances, then all, all and all have their honor and are purchased. This is the Greek reality. We see it in the news every night, ladies and gentlemen. Small and powerless will always get lost as long as the laws do not aim to protect them instead of managing their situation. Even those fellow citizens who made the mistake and believed in the Greek State enough to trust him with their savings, buying bonds of the Greek state, took this bitter lesson. They all got tired of bonds, banks, businesses and insurance funds. The banks, however, were recapitalised in the taxpayers' pocket. And if we consider the provision of the famous deferred tax, then you may also have won the banks. Large businesses were able to write them in their books as damages and so they did not pay tax on their part. The insurance funds were included in the budget, subsidised, subsidised by the Greek state. Everyone somehow found their support somewhere, all the big, of course, because the micromolecules never found their point. They're still looking for it. They're still claiming it. The people I speak about - and with whom I will also close my position - have known the difficulties that the country was going through and made patience. But they ignored Greek reality. All governments from 2012 to today have promised these people that they will find a solution to their problem and restore their savings, but hide from them realities. The current government, when it was in the Opposition, had also tabled an amendment for these people, which was probably then buried somewhere very deep. In Greek, ladies and gentlemen, these people have suffered the absolute grief of all the governments, who have used their pain simply for voting reasons. In conclusion, this bill is adapted to Greek reality. This Greek reality, the Centro Association does not want it and is struggling to change it since he entered the Greek Parliament. We won't compromise and we won't be happy. We will vote 'at present' to honour one step forward, because otherwise the intentions in Greek reality remain the same. As far as the amendments are concerned, Amendment No 1502 by the dear Minister is adapted to the Greek reality. There's two articles inside. One speaks of the outstanding debts to the EEA and the other relates to the Ministry's establishment plan. Why are you doing this to us? Why do you put two different topics, Mr Minister, in the same amendment? Why don't you give us the right to place us with a yes? Why do you lead us to the amendment to'represent', as does the Minister in the bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much. As I am chairing, I would like to congratulate Mr Drasakis and wish him a success in his duties. Mr Petropoulos has asked for the floor for two legislative improvements. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. These are two omissions on typing, these legal improvements - corrections are very simple. One concerns in paragraph 7(d) of Article 'Aid for health care'. Before the words ‘without supplementation condition’, the words ‘from 1-3-2018 to 28-2-2019’ shall be added. This is a transitional period. the words ‘according to the last subparagraph’ shall be replaced by ‘only on the basis of (d)’; The second legislative improvement concerns in case (g) paragraph 7 of the article entitled ‘Authorisation of health-care insurance’. After the words ‘L.2458/1997 (A-15) the words ‘up to 28-2-2018’ shall be added. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. These signs were simply overlooked during typing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much to the Minister. The special speaker from the river Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make a comment on the issue of the Greek military. I mean, as long as the two Greek soldiers remain in Turkish prison, the time of the SYRIZA - ANEL government counts in reverse. It is an extremely sensitive and difficult issue and we do not see from the leadership of the Ministry of National Defence the corresponding approach and seriousness. It is unthinkable that the leadership of the Ministry of National Defence is responsible for approaching the issue. But Mr. Kammenos says, but Mr. Kouvelis says. That would not matter if it were in another ministry, but in a sensitive ministry such as this, I do not think this helps to remove the obstacles to the immediate release of Greek soldiers from the Turks. On the occasion of this, I would like to ask: in February 2016 the Government had authorized the naval ships to be in the Aegean Sea to see whether the agreement between the European Union and Turkey on refugee is being complied with. I would remind you that there was a French french, a french french from Canada, a Turkish french and then another two were expected, an Italian and a French french and, of course, a Greek french. I would like to ask: do we have an account of the presence of the naval ships in the Aegean? We're two years later. What's our balance sheet? Did they help? They didn't help? I say these because, unfortunately, from NATO, Mr. Kammenos "done a hard door" the other day, when NATO Secretary General Gen. Stoldenberg told him about the Greek military issue: "This is your problem with Turkey, you can find your own". In fact, Turkey's role in the naval alliance came to light. So things are very serious and we expect the government to take more responsible steps. I come to the question of the directive that we are incorporating today into national law. It's too late than never. We're seeing a slow pace. While it should have been incorporated by December 2016, we are two years later and today introducing this important directive on the protection of victims, businesses and consumers from unfair cartels by means of actions for damages. It remains to be seen whether the directive is actually being implemented by both market players, namely, in practice, and by national courts which will implement it. The market must be openly functioning, but with regulatory rules, clear legal rules and others that must apply to everyone. Of course, the work and role of the independent authorities and committees must be strengthened. We must, of course, add to the creation of a fair tax environment, where everyone will pay in proportion to their income and with great limitation on the possibility of tax evasion. So we are well incorporating Directive 104 of the European Union today, but we must strengthen the independent authorities and, in particular, the Competition Committee. The Competition Committee has been doing an excellent job over the years, despite the difficulties and obstacles it has constantly encountered on its way. First of all, we must remember that the committee was set up in 1995 with Law 2296. He acquired the form of the independent authority at that time, by this law. It took five years to gain financial self-sufficiency and another three years to extend the powers and responsibilities of the committee to include the application of the competition rules of the European Union, Articles 101 and 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In 2005, under Law 3373, he acquired distinguished legal personality and could proceed to trials. I would like to say that it took ten years from the creation of the Competition Committee as an independent authority in order to acquire all the powers that make it operational. Now her work is hard. He's been putting them in the cartels, looking for companies, usually complaints are undisturbed, he has to look into the case in depth from the beginning, but there are obstacles to her work, and that's good for the government to consider them and find a way to lift them. Excessive number of cases, but by subscribing the Committee, since no members are replaced. There is a rigid legal and procedural framework, time-consuming procedures in the clearance of cases, minimum resources in the committee to carry out in-depth in-depth investigations and, in fact, multiannual ones. My proposal, Mr Vice-President - and by the way, a good start in your duties - is that the Authority's affairs should be served by public services as a priority. This alone will give the committee a time-consuming breath so that once it has done its investigation, it will continue or not cartel and unfair practices on the Greek market. If we also think that the cases it sends to justice are late, they take years, then you realise that to some extent and to some extent - and we are all responsible - we are in fact safeguarding the illegality of the action that the Committee on Competition must take. So here I come to tell you a practical result and see how this directive will lead us to deal with better cases like this, namely the 'Diselgate' of 'VOLKSWAGEN'. It's a global scandal. It was, of course, worth asking, in writing, the statement by the Secretary-General of Trade, Mr Papaderakis, in a question from the Members of the SYRIZA about what the government will do with the 'VOLKSWAGEN' scandal, which said that there is no safe conviction of misleading with regard to features and specifications. He should be the only one on the planet who didn't realize that VOLKSWAGEN used software to change the meters to the diesel pollutant emission. I do not know why he does not know that in America already the American independent authorities and the local governments in various states have filed a complaint against VOLKSWAGEN and have been compensated for hundreds of millions of dollars. Here in Greece I would like to ask Mr Drasakis what is going on with this scandal, what we have claimed as a country. I will tell you the case with regard to her judiciary and that was in response to the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Papagelopoulos, on 29 May 2017 at a corresponding question. On 6-10-2015 a case-file was formed against everyone in charge. Two days later the case was sent to the 13th court for preliminary examination, one month later it was charged to a prosecutor for further processing, six months later a request for legal assistance was filed in Germany, which is still being executed. So I ask: why not impose administrative sanctions on 'VOLKSWAGEN'? I also ask: has the Greek Ministry of Finance responded to the apologies letter sent to all the Finance Ministers by VOLKSWAGEN, saying 'I am open with each of your own governments to discuss the way in which consumers are compensated and not just'? So I want you to tell us what progress this case is, what the fate of asking for legal aid is in Germany and why - while all countries are rushing to chase those who, in a violent and insidious way, I would say, violate the conditions of the smooth functioning of the market at the expense of the consumer, at the expense of the environment in this particular case, at the expense of the economy, of every local economy - we are always utopian in looking for and asking for what we as Greek public is entitled and should claim. The list is big. I'm waiting for answers. We shall, in any case, be voting in favour of the directive which, unfortunately, has been delayed. I have put it for the amendments. I really expect you to tell me, Mr Drasakis, how practically we will face a new 'DIESELGATE' scandal this directive and its transposition into national law. What are Greek administration's tools against these great monopolies at last? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much Mr. Amyras. Mr. Micheloannakis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. The damage suffered by consumers and businesses, when there is a violation of the law of free competition in the European Union, we all know that they are very big. This is why European unity has introduced a single civil system. Each Member State is required to establish procedural rules. That's right. Thus, any person facing damage caused by a breach of competition by an undertaking or association of undertakings may claim compensation. Rules shall be laid down to communicate evidence either in the possession of parties or third parties or, finally, in the file of a national competition authority. Restrictions on the use and exchange of documents and penalties which the court may impose are also laid down. The damage, the limitation period, the consensual arrangements for subsequent actions for damages shall be determined. The decisions of the national competition authorities are also defined. Confidential information is protected and there is a full application of the law of confidentiality. They can claim compensation not only to cause damage, but also for for foregone gains. There is - and we see it - a special prediction for small and medium-sized enterprises and those with a leniency status, since it is only responsible for its own direct or indirect buyers, since its market share in the market in question is less than 5% and does not bear the full responsibility. Article 8 provides for the limitation of claims against the offender for damages due to infringement of competition law, which he has laid down in five years. Article 10 regulates the case where more than one undertaking has been jointly infringed. Articles 4 and 14 shall assist in compensation by collecting necessary evidence to quantify the injury. Articles 13 and 14 shall introduce a fighting presumption in favour of the transfer. In Article 15 we have cases of consensual dispute resolution. We therefore succeed in encouraging and facilitating the exercise of actions for damages for infringements of antitrust, national and Union law, as well as the harmonisation of national legal systems in such actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Micholonnakis. We proceed to the next speaker from SYRIZA, Mr Papaliou, and then the Minister for Economy and Development Mr Drasakis will follow. Here, Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to congratulate the Vice-President of the Government publicly and wish his new duties as Minister for Development and Economy. Public enforcement of the law against unfair, illegal restrictions, distortions of competition by individual competition authorities is necessary, but not sufficient condition for the smooth, orderly functioning of the free market and the effective application of the competition rules. The purpose of this draft is to incorporate into the Greek legal system Directive 2014/104 of the European Parliament and of the Council the rules governing actions for damages under national law for infringements of the provisions of competition law of the Member States and of the European Union. Incorporating this Directive into the draft law, the provisions of wrongful liability which fall within the general framework of the provisions of the Civil Code (Articles 914 et seq.) are not to be taken into account. A.K.). It shall be encouraged and facilitated to bring actions for damages for infringements of antitrust, national and Union law, and to harmonise national legal systems concerning such actions. This reinforces healthy, free competition and the proper functioning of the markets in the Greek economy, by aligning the institutional framework with the European acquis and international legal order. Actions for damages may be brought both by direct and indirect purchasers of products, i.e. those who buy direct goods or services from the misconductor and those who purchase goods or services from enterprises operating at the next tiers of the supply chain. Any natural or legal person shall be entitled to any damage caused by an infringement of Union or national law on the protection of free competition by an undertaking or association of undertakings, effectively claim and achieve full compensation for that damage by an undertaking or association of undertakings. By the payment of the damages, the person must be restored to the situation in which the infringement of competition law had not occurred. This includes a right to compensation for positive loss and foregone profit, as well as the payment of interest. This applies both to ‘individual’ and to the impending decision of the competition authority. Through the present regulation, it seeks to remove obstacles to the well-being of actions for damages for breach of antitrust rules between public and private enforcement of the law on the protection of free competition in the European Union to eliminate any obstacles that may arise so that the victims of cartels are restored by compensation to be provided through actions for damages. However, this draft law, which incorporates the Union Directive, is limited only to claims for damages, without prejudice to any claims for failure to comply and for the termination of the infringement. Ladies and gentlemen, the damage caused by restrictions of competition is often extended to every market operator, including indirect buyers and suppliers, but also to final consumers, and not only to counterparties direct buyers or suppliers or competitors. Positive injury is usually caused by the impact of anti-competitive behaviour on price levels. The positive loss consists of the difference between the price actually paid and the hypothetical market price, which would be paid without restriction of competition, while the loss of profit has been incurred where the artificial price increase has led to a reduction in the demand for the products of the affected competitor, directly or indirectly. In addition, the cartel or abuse of a dominant position may affect the quantity of goods produced or prepared and proportionately the same applies to profit foregone. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] In addition, Article 10 of the draft law, which refers to liability for all more undertakings, is liable only to their direct and indirect buyers, since the market shares they hold on the relevant market are less than 5% at any time when the infringement is committed and where the application of the normal rules on the full liability could cause irreversible risk and therefore irreparable damage to their economic viability. This special scheme does not, however, apply where the small and medium-sized enterprises have ordained the infringement, forced other undertakings to participate in the infringement or have found to have relapsed, i.e., committed an infringement of competition law at an earlier time. Finally, the directive contains rules of procedure, the right to notify, to demonstrate documents, which ensures the principle of effectiveness, the validity of the European Commission's national decisions and decisions on proof, of limitation and of others. In all of this, it is attempting to facilitate claims for damages to those affected by the breach of the rules and distortion of competition. The bill is one, at least small, of antitrust legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Papaliou. The honourable Minister has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u102	With hello and technologies. We need to get acquainted. We've been waiting for them for years. First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office, but also Mr Dimas and all those who have spoken and wished me for the new tasks of the Ministry of Economy and Development. I understand these references not only as a kind compliment but also as a conscientious view that, in the phase of investment, employment and social development, they are the first - and I hope they will be a common priority for all of us. I will say at the end, if I have time, some initial thoughts. I would like to say that we have room in this area and we have better understanding and accelerating the recovery, which is already a fact. I also want to say that I take your wishes and as a conscientious view that growth requires consensus, that of course it has conflicts and conflicts at some time, but it also requires consensus at the level of society, but also at the level of political forces. And I would like to say that the Ministry will be open to the representatives of the parties and to social bodies, precisely so that through dialogue and wherever confrontation is needed, but fertile, we can shape these common positions. The debate has raised a lot of issues and a number of issues in general, beyond the subject of the bill, which I do not wish to refer to, because the path of parliamentary scrutiny needs to be used, so that any questions can be raised and answered. For example, the issue of the two soldiers. It would be irresponsible to speak without full knowledge of the data. I know the government is serious about this. I have also seen, by exploiting a verbal differentiation, you have given it a wider political meaning, which does not exist. So I will confine myself to the issues of the bill. However, a number of issues have also been raised here, which I think have a wider interest, a wider significance. I shall begin with these and then come to the specific issues of the bill. I shall start from the Golden Dawn, which I heard her representative refer to cartels, monopolies, corruption and various problems, to denounce, in fact, not those responsible for them, but democracy in fact. I would like to say that these problems are not treated with fascism. Where fascism prevailed, these problems were exacerbated, the monopolies were gigantic and the regime turned against the weak. Initially, it turned to some special groups, such as the Jews, the leftists, but ultimately these regimes turned against the poor and the weak. That is why we are discussing these problems in order to solve them through strengthening democracy and strengthening the social content of democracy. That is why our differences are open. Secondly, I would like to make a brief reference to what was said by the representative of the Communist Party of Greece. I see a contradiction between rhetoric, Mr Colleague, and the deed. You told us here, if I understood correctly, capitalism is everywhere, there are no differences, monopolies are intact, cartels are intact. To some extent that is based. So, what's the conclusion? Do you blame the government for having deceiving and wanting humanity, as you said, of capitalism? I read to the "RIZOPASTI" that you are calling on the world to make demonstrations on the claim of collective bargaining. What's that? Anthropism? Call it whatever you want. For us, it is a struggle to improve working conditions, to 'weapons' in the hands of the weak to fight. This struggle is also taking place from below, from the level of government, and it is also done in Europe by the forces which are also moving in a progressive direction and are taking place throughout the world. So, I would say, in your rhetoric, that you say what you want, but on the big fronts that we have today open and are not alone, it is important that even from different starting points, there should be a common aim, precisely in terms of improving working conditions, in terms of strengthening society, in terms of equipment for the weak with 'weapons', so that they can cope with the crisis and its consequences. You also said something about farmers, that the development of the rural economy means a capitalist development of the rural economy. Why has this not happened all last century in Greece? Because Greece cannot be offered, it cannot in Greece develop the rural economy under the terms - let us say - developed in the United States of America with large capitalist enterprises or in some countries of Europe. For us, its geography, the small lot on the other hand, are the structural features of our country, but the possibility of producing quality products. This is why efforts in Greece to force a classic capitalist model of development in the rural economy failed and only had negative consequences. The current government is just trying to develop the rural economy through a model based on collaborativeity, collectiveity. Small lots need to find ways of cooperating in quality products, not in massively impersonal products, but in branded products, which are sought around the world. So, look at this as well. It's not white - black. It's not always a levelling. We need to see in every place what constitutes the progressive direction today and that is what we can do as far as we can. As far as the representative of the New Democracy is concerned, you are right, Mr Dimas, that he has delayed the transposition of this directive. As the government keeps up with it, I want to recognise the problem and take political responsibility. But it is exaggerated to say that because of this delay cartels and monopolies are angering. I think that other speakers have pointed out that this directive is a good one. And it is good that it is voted on by almost all parties. We must not, however, be illusory about the fact that only in this way can we bring about a drastic change in the problem that we are discussing. You are right that we are abstaining from having - not only today, but also before - an integrated policy on cartels, monopolies, all these distortions of competition. And here I would agree with the representative of the Central Association and other Members who have raised the question, whether this problem can only be seen in terms of legislation. Not only whether the laws are complied with or not, but in the sense that these phenomena are produced in a special way through the operation of the economy and afterward come by legislation and other measures to limit the effects of these phenomena. I would also like to point out that, especially today in our country, speaking of these, we must also recognise the contradictions that competition has in our time. On the one hand, globalisation of competition is pushing for large mergers. To get a business out on the world market, it must have powers to compete. On the other hand, this concentration distorts competition or converts it to competition once, many times, a domestic company against huge sizes of multinational companies. On the other hand, by saying that it will prevent this trend from having other side effects. So how does this matter come about? It shall be set up again in terms of strategic selection models. A strategy that supports certain models, such as the so-called neoliberal, supports the creative strategy - as it says - disaster. What does that mean? This means that we allow the market free, we let the strongest one prevail through the destruction of the smaller ones or the weak ones - because many times big businesses are being destroyed - there is room for the strongest businesses and the most skilled - supposedly - to understand this place. If we follow this road in our country, we will have a complete disaster. It is questionable whether in a few small branches some businesses can survive. We have seen this particularly in the phase of the first and second Memorandums, where this has been implemented. We had a complete dissolution of the productive tissue. We saw unemployment reach 27%. We have seen the cumulative recession, the loss of production of national incomes coming closer to one third. The current government, we, the strategy we are working on and will have the opportunity to discuss, is based on the logic that we must respond to this problem by creating cooperative, collectively and cooperatively, not only in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises but also in general: networking, collaborative partnerships and rings. There are various forms. That is the direction in which we must move. The second level, of course, is the legislation, namely the laws, the rules being common but also targeted, so that they strengthen this direction we want. The third level is society itself. Unfortunately, consumer movements in our country have never been able to reach the level that these issues can deal with. The institutions of society, however, can intervene in various ways in this process. In these general terms, therefore, I come to the particular issues of the draft law. First of all, I would like to put a number of strict legislative improvements in the Minutes, that is to say, the title of the bill changes, because there are also amendments, and other relevant, similar ones, which you will see. [[At this point the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of State Mr Ioannis Drasakis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvements, which are as follows:]] Change Page [[Let the page in. 127]] Change Page
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u103	I think that the content of the draft law has been sufficiently analysed. We are talking about the incorporation of a directive which helps those who have been damaged by cartels, monopolies, etc. In these cases, therefore, there are more possibilities than there are so that the person concerned can claim his right to say it simply. The only thing I want to do is therefore to answer some questions which have been raised in committee. Of course, with the change of the Minister, as you said, what I will say is what I have been equipped with. I would like to assure you, however, that I, even afterward, have studied the minutes of the committee and the relevant questions and, I think, there are convincing answers to all of them. But if they don't exist, here we are, to see them in the future. The first, perhaps, is Mr Dimas' comment on the provision of collective consumer education. There's been consultation. The consultation has shown that there is the problem and we need to see it in the future, but there was not that enthusiasm or that proposal that we should be dealing with it here and now. The problem has been recognised, but we have also identified many difficulties that accompany the possibility of collective actions and for these reasons we are keeping it, if there is a wider consensus, to open up a dialogue and reach a specific legislation on this issue and not just by the way of dealing with it. The special speaker, Mr Constantinople, noted that the bill contradicts the abolition of the obligation of the commercial guarantee by Law 4512/2018. The answer is that this is not the case. Law 4512/2018 provides that where no security is provided, this fact must be clearly disclosed. The commercial guarantee is thus transformed from a formal obligation to a competitive advantage. The question was also raised that this bill facilitates actions for damages, but Law 4512/2018 makes it difficult to conduct such actions by making mediation compulsory. The answer is that it is not compulsory to mediate in the differences in our legislation. Intermediation is compulsory in disputes relating to an infringement of trademarks, patents and so on. With regard to the observation on the penalty that it is low, the answer is that if the evidence requested is not provided, the claim is deemed to be proven. So in that case the offender will also pay compensation and financial penalty. I would like to comment, of course, that the comparison here and the comparison with NOVARTIS is completely unstable. The question of 'NOVARTIS' is not about violating certain competition rules. It has to do, if all the things contained in the documents prove to be true, by the fact that here we have had an attempt to destroy more widely the functioning of the institutions. These are as far as the bill is concerned. There's more. You most of you are legal. I do not think it is appropriate to extend to these issues. I would like to finish with what I said at the outset, firstly that the Ministry of Economy and Development must be an open Ministry. Therefore, not only questions here will be answered, in the context of all possibilities, but also in other ways, we must seek to organise a dialogue. Secondly, this ministry was specifically called the Ministry of Coordination. Regardless of its name, therefore, this Ministry is responsible for managing funds because it has the NSRF because it has the Public Investment Programme, it plays its purpose or can contribute to the overall coordination of all those actors involved in the development process. So we will have the opportunity to say about them in the future. I would just like to conclude by saying that at this time the absolute priority is the timely conclusion of the negotiations, not only because we need to be ready before the ending bell is ringing, long before, but also because the commitments we have in this ministry are our own property, to use this term. In other words, what we have to do is things that we have to do anyway and we have to do. I am thinking, first of all, of the completion of a development strategy. Secondly, I am referring to the need to fill the financial gap, creating financial instruments beyond the banks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the Vice-President of the Government and Minister bell is ringing.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, for a moment. They're various initiatives in progress. Amongst these are the initiative to create a development bank. Thirdly, it is the Katseli Act and the extrajudicial, critical to address the huge issue of red loans. We used to talk about a public-official mentality with a negative term. We must prevent the emergence and, if not already, of a banking culture. I mean, I mean, a culture sitting on their loans and waiting for the debtors to go to pay for it. There must be active political, proactive actions and it is good that banks recognise this too. Yesterday, in a meeting, I saw that they already have plans and programmes to find the debtors, to see their problems, to see what they can do, to distinguish those who can but do not pay from those who cannot and, therefore, to have programmes such as that which facilitates the resolution of the problems. It's the credit scheme for investments. We still have to make it easier. It is about informing and hosting investors, where there is improvement, but there is also great room for further improvement. There is therefore a possibility of accelerating, coordinating and socialising the development process in general in the sense that development is not being achieved without the active involvement of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much to the Minister. Mr Sahinides will then have the floor, as he has agreed with both Parliamentary Representatives of the New Democracy and PASOK, Mr Kefaliannis and Mr Koutsoukos, as he will be before. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifteen students and two educational escorts from the public IEK VENIZELOS. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would ask the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Ioannis Sahinidis, to speak for twelve minutes. Mr. Kefaliannis and Mr. Koutsoukos will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you would do well to change the communications because your rhetoric is too poor. Every time a member of your staff is mentioned, a Member of Parliament, a government member of the Golden Dawn, the only thing you know about saying is 'the fascists, the Nazis'. Do a rehearsal of all your speech all evening looking at the mirror first, wondering how fascist and how neo-nazi it is that you are doing to the representatives of the third political force. But not all of this happens at random. It's for two reasons. I do not know which of you have prioritised your mind, whether it is related to the rise of the Golden Dawn in percentages or whether it is related to the disorientation you are trying to create to Greek citizens, because there are very serious national issues. Thirteenth day today and continue "in a time of peace" two Greek soldiers remain imprisoned in Turkey. You are asking yourself why, without making your self-criticism, there is a disgrace for Greek citizens towards politicians and politics in the way they conduct themselves and your behaviour. A few days ago, in this Chamber, in his last speech, the Secretary-General of the Golden Dawn made you the honour of calling you colleagues. Unfortunately, some of you in here don't deserve it. This is the third time following the speech of the Secretary General of the Golden Dawn that a usual suspect intervenes, wanting to make criticism, wanting to create a climate. There's an attempt to make your speech nice. You want the crooks in here to call them 'political frauds', you want in our words to quote. Hey, no! If you don't respect us, from now on we'll treat you accordingly. The word "neonazi" always refers to Golden Dawn. All those in this Chamber who say "fascist" and "neonazi" show us without ever asking us to define ourselves. So it was heard from earlier that they were proud they hadn't come down to the squares with us. First, in order to get down to the square you must have the courage to go next to the ordinary Greek citizen. Most of you go down to the squares only when there's Gay Price. Your only participation is this one in the squares! You have abolished the presumption of innocence towards the nationalists and the third political force, which you invoke at every opportunity. It was also heard that the Golden Dawn had burned the Turkish flag - and we did well and I am proud and whenever I get the opportunity to burn it again - there were retaliations from the Turks and burned the Greek flag. But I have not heard any of you in here complain about burning the Greek flag in Greece. Burning it by the Green Wolves is a normal thing. It's our country's long-lasting enemy. Burning it, however, within Greece is ethnicism and betrayal. The pants, as we know, were once worn by men. Unfortunately, it has become a clothing, which has become unisex and usually some wear it to keep it from cold. Let's wear spoon, he's doing the same thing! Otherwise, there is no justification for a reference made again about 'nightbrains' and again they were referring to us. If there is no complaint from the "main" who said that the Golden Dawn is 'night', if there are no names, I return it ten times as much. Let him come and tell us who those goons of the night were. We have heard a thousand two, but we have not heard of bank robbers, we have not heard of people hosting terrorists who are taking a five-day leave, who have been convicted of proven crimes and who go and welcome them. And you mind the Golden Dawn word! Very well you do and continue this silence conspiracy. Otherwise, give us a step. Because you have told us repeatedly in this Chamber that you were fearless. You did not fear tanks, you did not fear the exile, which you were fishing and writing poems, nor did you fear fascism and Naziism in all its appearances. Prove to us how democrats you are and whether you can deal with us. Call us once on a big channel. First of all, Minister, as genuine expressionors of democracy, why do you themselves circumvent the Rules of Procedure of the House by denying parliamentary control over the third political force? What right are you doing this with? We have the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, who is a fan of Latin America and South America. He has said that on several occasions. But his behavior is such that I could be likened to Ernan Cortes when he had gone to the native Aztecs and gave them beads. Otherwise, his behaviour is not explained, because while almost a month and a half have passed, no one has mentioned in this Chamber that, while in Patras on 6 February, he said in his speech: "There can be no patriotism of Panama Papers, of offshore companies and of mediation", waving the finger in Civicism and New Democracy, when just two weeks before Tsakalotos - and it may not have been in the knowledge of the Prime Minister of Greece - he had voted in Ecofin for the Panama Papers, Paradise Papers to be excluded, to become legally, so that the control can be stopped. To whom, really, are you swinging the finger? And it's one finger you have for two reasons: one is dive into honey and the other is not allowed to tell him. So I say, in the Minutes of Parliament, that, in order for the Greek people to keep in mind what is happening, who you really are, how hypocritical you are and how lying you are. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I mentioned in my report that this is all for two reasons. For us, the main reason is national issues. No one mentioned a letter, which has been sent to all the e-mails of all Members from Greek American Chris Spirou. It is a 15-page letter, which is historically documented and sent to both the Secretary-General and the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council. This is where the Greekity of Macedonia is fully and historically documented. There was absolutely no mention of this part either. I give this letter and three other letters sent by Chris Spirou. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letters, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, your mind is only in disorientation. You deal with who enters the countryside, you deal with a thousand other issues, and you manage the thirteen days to get the two Greek soldiers to pass as a fourth, as a fifth news in the main issues. No one mentioned the record of photographic settings again in seventy one cases of competitions in progress throughout Greece to upgrade irrigation networks. And something like that, of course, also happens in the local road-lighting contests. I should also like to take the amendments to my timeliness. With regard to Amendment No 1502 and special number 23, the relevant ministers are trying to achieve a virtual settlement of the insurance funds' finances, which after the unstable consolidations and the commitments made to merciful merciful memoranda have been found in red. Article 1 of this Regulation shows that the solution chosen from these is the financing of financial obligations to health service providers by the State budget. It is therefore clear that the original provisions and legislation did not produce the desired results, but instead they accumulated and created the phenomenon of dues. Here we agree on repayment, but what forces us to vote against this amendment is the second article in the same amendment, where the regulations introduced concern the regulation of matters of an administrative and implementing nature by introducing additional, but also heterogeneous provisions. The relevant lists are given in the distribution of permanent staff to the services of the Ministry of Labour. However, the Ministry does not explain why it is making such arrangements. We are likely to be concerned about the service of your own people and the guarantee of their jobs. I would point out that if it were only the first article, we would be prepared to vote in favour of it. Let's go to the amendment with a general number of 1511 and a special number 26. From this amendment we retain this, that the relevant Ministry is proposing that there should be insurance and health care for immigrants from the first day of work instead of for the ninety days that were in place until now, while at the same time for Greek employees and members of their family, there should be an insurance capacity and other health services only if it has seventy-five days to work instead of fifty to date. This is where you raised it. In view of this, there is a peculiar and distinct racism against the Greeks, which you are accustomed to showing. On the contrary, foreigners seem to enjoy special treatment. We disagree with this sort of legislative approach and, of course, we will also vote against this amendment. As far as Amendment No 1509 is concerned and Amendment No 24 is concerned, the one-stop shop, which concerns the electronic submission and processing of applications for the issuing of the certificates required for the external trade, is indeed modernised in this amendment. The new tool will be called the ‘single external trade box’. What makes us certain reservations, however, is that the proposed electronic system will become part of the organisational and information system of the Independent Public Income Authority, which is the control system of the technological elite. In this respect, therefore, with the joint decision that the relevant ministers and the AAR Commander may issue on a case-by-case basis, they leave some reservations about any subordinate services of great interest and political obligations in any form of economic funds that are active in export trade. This is where we shall vote 'the present'. I shall close with the last amendment with a general number of 1510 and a specialist of 25. From this we understand that the previous and applicable provisions on the time limit for the registration in collective decisions per operational ESRB programme, which had been set to start the associated entries from 1-1-2018, are redefined for 1-1-2019. We all know that the ESDP programmes are a kind of funding for the European Union's central authority towards our country. However, it has been found that the competent domestic services are incapable of taking the relevant steps to absorb them. This means that government bodies are unable to honour the relevant schedules for the implementation of payments to the NSRP projects and transfer the procedure of the relevant documents per year. It's something that repeats it all the time. What is happening with the institutions of the region concerned and why was it not possible to comply with the relevant timetable, which your own government had adopted? We will vote against this as well. And one last sentence. Indeed, some can be proud of their grandparents. But let them wonder if their grandparents would live how proud they would be of them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr. Shahinides. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Kefaloyannis, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. I too should like to congratulate the Minister for his new duties. I sincerely wish him good luck, because it is indeed a very critical post for the Greek economy and it is good to achieve, at least unlike its predecessors, who seem to have had failures in this particular post, and that is why there have been changes. I cannot make a reference to the current situation, Mr Minister, and of course I shall refer to the case of the two soldiers who are currently in custody from the neighbouring country. We have seen that the Turkish President, Mr Erdogan, who was advertised on grounds and branches by the government, not only did not lead to an improvement in the bilateral relations between Greece and Turkey, but, unfortunately, they were still being brought to an end. Let me remind the National Representation that after Mr Erdogan's visit to Greece we had the attempt to vacate the port ship within Greece's territorial waters in Imia, we had Turkey's ongoing piracy actions at the Cyprus EEZ, we had the illegal NAVTEX and the Turkish investigation and rescue exercises, which included the entire Kastelorizo and we also had the recent incident of the arrest of our two soldiers. Unfortunately, it seems, based on results, we did not have good diplomacy, as Mr Kotzias, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, said when he welcomed the Turkish President. I believe that the Greek Government has unfortunately underestimated Turkish provocation lately. It was not a simple nervousness, as Mr Kotzias likes to characterise Turkey's attitude. There are always political and military prevention decisions, including increased measures. For example, we know that in the past there have been increased forces in patrols, experienced officers participating in border patrols, there has been a avoidance of moves that could be regarded as exploited on the part of Ankara to make an artificial incident. Unfortunately, none of this has happened, and there have been signs from Turkey of the escalation in its provocativeness. The question is, if it could have avoided the incident. It could probably have been avoided if additional measures had been taken. However, it is a question, Mr Minister, of giving a solution to this question. Our agony is growing. Because it is not just what you said, that is, verbal modulation. You see that within the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Kammenos speaks of hostages and the Deputy Minister, Mr Kouvelis, speaks of a super-food reason for Mr Kammens - that is, we see a dimension in dealing with the incident - and I remember the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, who spoke of a normal incident taking place at the border. That is why I am taking the opportunity in addition to that of the Minister of National Economy and Development and as Vice-President of the Government, to give me a clear answer in the end what is the official position of the Greek Government on this matter. Is this a hostage incident, as the Minister of National Defence says? Is this a common incident that takes place at the border? I will ask a second question which the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, did not reply to Mr Mitsotakis earlier. Is there any agreement on the return of the eight Turkish soldiers to Turkey? I hope not, but it is good that an answer should be given within Parliament, because the last time you were questioned as a government there was no such answer. In the bill too soon, because I think our rapporteur, both in committee and in plenary, was illusory and we have said that we will be positive. Two questions which, as I understand they have not been answered by you and asked by Mr Dimas, are whether you can tell us how the damage to the consumer can be calculated. I understand that this is a difficult issue, but it is good to give an answer, since it can be given, on this particular issue. Secondly, you said that there was a consultation on the bill. Of course, on the basis of at least the body of the bill, I see that the only consultation that took place is between BSE and the plenary session of the Presidents of the Bar Associations, but yet the question remains, if you did some private meetings, as Minister, with consumer associations, in order to have...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u108	Not from me. He was with the EMCDDA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u109	Yes, sir. In other words, there were some meetings of the Ministry. Okay. Just because it had not been recorded in the bill, from what I read on page 29, only BSE had sent a memo and the plenary of the members of the Bar Associations. But I'm keeping your point. As far as the amendments are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we regret once again to have one maladministration by the government. We have a bill which incorporates a Community directive, that is to say a formal procedure within Parliament, and we see that in fact, once again, four unreasonable amendments come to an unreasonable bill, many of them at the last minute. Characteristics, the total number 1511 and special 26 were filed at 11.05 this morning, i.e. two hours before the start of the debate on this bill. We see that all these amendments are overdue and, unfortunately, once again, you do not allow the National Representation to discuss fundamentally very important issues that these amendments are trying to deal with, but the way in which you are literally bringing it to the last minute, you are not actually able to denounce it. However, I will tell you this time, Minister, that we will not only remain in the complaint, but we will vote against all the amendments, although we agree with many of them on the substance, to send a message that at last we will have to stop this bad legalization. It is no excuse that it has also been with previous governments, because we are supposed to have gone to a normalisation of the legislative process. We are not at the moment talking about a bill that may be prerequisite to getting a dose. We have all the time to discuss these issues. We see that even today, at the last minute, there are inappropriate amendments to an unrelated bill, and unfortunately, we do not have time to enter a substantial debate. We invite you to withdraw them. As long as you withdraw the amendments and can come with a proper procedure in another bill, of course we are prepared to vote on them, and in particular, I will tell you what we will be positive and what we will be negative. However, since they are not withdrawn, I repeat that we will vote against all four amendments, although some of them may be positive. However, since I do not think that you will unfortunately not have the political emotiveness to withdraw the amendments and go into a normal process of legislating, I have to tell you at least the positions of the New Democracy on the substance of the amendments. Starting with Amendment No 1502 and Amendment No 23, it is an amendment which in fact introduces two issues differently, namely one relating to the EEA, and the other is a matter relating to matters relating to Presidential Decree 137. We, as a New Democracy, wanted to tell you that as far as the outstanding debts of the EEA are concerned, we obviously cannot be negative. Of course, we are voting against the reasons I have put before you. However, with regard to the second article, we would like to know why you are choosing to amend the d.d. 137/2017 by law and you do not follow the correct legislative procedure, which is to submit it to the Council of State and, of course, the comments made by the Board. In other words, you are changing a presidential decree, which we all know very well that it follows a specific legislative procedure and you are trying indirectly with a law to amend the Presidential Decree, which you had brought in the legislative process about a year ago. In fact, I read in Amendment Nos 1502 and 23, in the explanatory statement, that errors have been rectified which have inadvertently been embodied in this Presidential Decree. If one sits down, ladies and gentlemen, to measure what was liberated as errors, one would expect it to be one, two, three, perhaps even verbal issues. However, it will see that these are twenty-four amendments. Twenty-four amendments by means of this amendment are regarded as errors, which have been embodied in this President-in-Office decree, in a President-in-Office decree, which has passed the procedure, as we have said before, of the Council of State. We, Minister, believe that it is not just mistakes which have been liberated. Retrospectively you want to change some procedures - twenty-four in the number - and move on to this way of legislating. As far as Amendment No 1510 is concerned, I think - and I have said before - that it is an indirect confession of failure on the part of the Government regarding the absorption of Community funds, of which the inclusion of projects in a collective decision to integrate sectoral programmes is only a consequence. So three years after the start of the new programming period, we are talking about 'EUR 0', which has actually been allocated to businesses. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, with the exception of roads which should have been completed with money that should have been absorbed by the previous NRP, it will see that absorption as a whole is very disappointing. I think we should all let the paradoxical tactics park funds - and you, Minister - in various funds, such as the 'equity fund' TEPIX, appear to be absorbed. You should also explain to us as government how for three years you have been trying to create a technology system of supposedly worthwhile choice, which has not worked. You must also explain to us how the Commission agreed days ago to dismantle Mr Haritsis' system and enter the previous one, whether or not a programme is being launched in the NSRF. We must also, at some point as a government, give us the list of projects which are not approved, but those which have at least been compromised. I conclude with the amendment of general number 1511 and a specialist number 26. It is this amendment - and I shall close with that, Minister - which is, in fact, a whole bill. We are talking about an amendment of a total of twenty-seven pages, when the bill we are discussing today is a seven-page bill, which was tabled in the Greek Chamber of Deputies 11.05; that is less than two hours before the start of the debate, and we are being called on to do so. I conclude by saying that for the reasons I have just outlined, we will be negative. We call on you from now on to abstain from the misrepresentation, which, while there has been an exception in all previous parliamentary periods, unfortunately you have made it a norm and there is no longer any justification for pressure of time. The amendments must be tabled in due course, most of them relating to relevant bills and not to call on the National Representation to try to vote on amendments literally in 'only five'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much Mr. Kefaliannis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber of ENIZELOS and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, forty-two students and students and three teachers attending from the 2nd General School of Kiatos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parliamentary spokesman from the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. I should also like to give my sincere wishes for success to the Vice-President who took over an important ministry. I believe that we will have the opportunity to show both our agreements and our disagreements through dialogue, as long as the government believes him. But, Minister, I am very sorry that I was here, in this Chamber, and I saw you silently watching the representative of the Golden Dawn say that those who went to exiles go fishing and write poems. I imagine, because I know you were offended, as we have all been affected by these neonazi practices here, in this Chamber. But my reference is made, Minister, to see if you have taken any notice of developments, because you have made a reference to the relationship between neo-nazis and totalitarianism, and finally to the fact that bailing against monopolies is ultimately against the poor. However, I do not see any conclusions from the time when a rhetoric about the political system that betrayed the country, the 'German germans' and the'solder', which could then serve the so-called antimonetary front, brought the neonazis into this Chamber, who historically - and you know it very well - participated in all the national elections since postmopulation and then at rates below 0.5%. I feel that you have not yet reached conclusions because, following the debate on the 'NOVARTIS' pre-reviewing the 'NOVARTIS' the argument has taken place, two parties, SYRIZA and the Golden Dawn. Unfortunately, this is an objective finding. I do not want to equate practices, behaviours and ideologies in any way. I am saying this because I believe that in order to defend democracy, which you said that the Golden Dawn rhetoric is aimed at, we are obliged to talk about the relationship of democracy with the truth and to overthrow the logic of populism that has raised the phenomena of totalitarianism in Greece and from what we see here, it also raises similar phenomena in Europe. I am sorry that I started my position with this remark, along with my wishes. Ladies and gentlemen, for the directive and the bill incorporating it into our country, our rapporteur, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, has been mentioned in detail. He made good remarks. The Minister attempted to respond to one or two of them, particularly in relation to compulsory mediation. I do not think his answer was so convincing, but I do not have the legal texts in front of me. However, it is a fact that you should establish compulsory mediation for civil disputes and for disputes between commercial undertakings and, on the other hand, establish a system of compensation for infringements of competition law that has to go beyond this process of compulsory mediation. As I do not think it is right that the arguments made by the Minister who has also tried to answer our rapporteur about the fines of EUR 50,000 to EUR 100,000. I have seen the government's other bills push towards a reasonable reduction in fines when it comes to multinational or large companies, which we had to be much stricter. I close with these two remarks in relation to the bill. I shall say at the end of my speech and of the amendments. However, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot take advantage of the presence here of the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis, who, by closing his speech, made a reference to the efforts made by the Government to speed up the assessment on the basis of its own prerequisites, of what is owned by the government. Minister, because you have referred to the speakers who have raised other issues in parliamentary control, and you have rightly done so, I have to say that a major issue relating to the country's progress concerns what the government has said is negotiating for the end of the programme, the medium-term debt arrangements. Because your whole strategy, rejecting the logic of the prudential credit line, is the creation of the so-called "cushion", Mr. Venizelos has asked Mr. Tsakalotos a specific question about what the steps are, what the funds are and what the funds are. Mr. Chakalotos isn't answering. Mr Venizelos has attempted to turn it into a timely question for a debate here in Parliament and he has received the answer that 'at the time when these informal negotiations are taking place, we cannot inform Parliament'. But are these serious things? I address you for coming to the Committee on Debt and you have made a very serious position in dealing with it. So dark on a very big subject. Can you explain to us, Mr Vice-President of the Government, this argument of the International Monetary Fund that we are seeing in the newspaper headlines in the last few days for the forward implementation of the whole package of the so-called fourth memorandum, which is what you voted on as a complement and which has had the cut-off of pensions from 1-1-2019 and the tax-free reduction from 1-1-2020, to ensure its primaryity of 3.5% by 2022, where it is based? It is obviously based on the printing of the National Statistical Office that the goals fell out for growth in 2017 and fell out over a unit. From 2.7% we went to 1.4%. So we have a loss of national income, we have a loss of national GDP, so tax revenues will be reduced, despite the increase in rates, overtaxation and so on. How does the country deal with this? How is this scenario linked to the net exit scenario at the end of August? There are serious issues on which the government has to answer or at least have to have a serious debate, because we need to know the national strategy for the country in the next few months. Ladies and gentlemen, there may have been a criticism and Mr Constantinople has started speaking here on the case of Greek soldiers detained in Turkey, highlighting both the bilingualism of the government and the lack of a national strategy, as is the case with the sceptic, but bear in mind that, in order to serve this national strategy on external issues, you must also have a strategy on economic and social cohesion, which, unfortunately, we are seeing as the government does not have, because it does not pursue the dialogue, or because it has features of incompetence. The only platform that operates, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, is the platform for electronic auctions. The platform of "Security" fell, Mr. Stathakis apologized. I'm sorry, Mr. Savvides asked. There's nothing wrong with the apology. We need another concept of dealing with the problems. These were some of the comments I wanted to make by irritating the Minister, the Vice-President of the Government, to give us some answers. I will now turn to the issues of Mr Petropoulos, who came, asked him specific questions and answered them. The first question I asked to Mr Petropoulos is: Can he mock this House that it makes some changes to the organization, corrects sinfully and all of this is fifteen pages? It brought us here a new body, a replacement for the presidential decree that was adopted about eight months ago, and the left-wing government, reasoning and dialogue did not even inform the workers. He hid it. I personally took the initiative to ask the President of the workers and said that he did not have it in mind. I don't think he wanted the government to find him, and he was hiding. It's a tactic, ladies and gentlemen. And how does this practice relate to the government's parliamentary practice? It relates to the following: that the government, in directives or in sanctions for contracts, is tabling amendments when the bill has been passed by the committee, so that we cannot call on the bodies, because if these amendments were tabled to the committee, we would have asked for the workers' federation to come here, for example, to the Ministry of Labour to tell us its views. That is what you are doing with the amendments and then you tell us that you are the 'first time left'. I think this is a regression in the worst times of the Greek Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, with the provisions that seek to extend health insurance to the Ministry and the EEAS, we are not opposed. I would like to say to Mr Petroulos, although absent, that we had tabled a question from 10-2-2017 to Mrs Ahtsoglou for the discriminatory treatment by the IKA of the children of foreign immigrants legally in Greece, who are insured and are not insured for their children. It makes an effort to resolve this with Amendment No 1511, in case 6 of paragraph 5. However, we are not satisfied with the fact that it refers to the conditions of L.4251/2014. The right treatment for reasons of equality would be in accordance with the principles of equal treatment. We will also be positive in terms of the protection clause, which is certainly going to the ADP. However, we have to note that Law No.472/12, which provided for an electronic stance, was our law and you obviously have a failure to implement it. You remember that I asked Mr Haritsis when Mr Constantinople went to the debate on the subject and said: 'No, he is not new'. Yes, he's new, ladies and gentlemen. You, the majority, have brought you here a bill for the Civil Service Executives' Register on the order of the Troika with the argument that the administration is being dismantled. When the debate ended with Minister Vernardakis here, in this Chamber, he changed the Secretary-General and made him a special secretary and theme secretary. You put them in place. They are new structures, under the Secretary-General or the Special Secretary, i.e. they are a multi-teaching administration. To conclude, I would also like to note what Mr Petroupoulou has said in the regulations on the extension of health care, which we cannot oppose. What was the point, ladies and gentlemen, of what is envisaged as 50 days in the private sector last year to have health insurance, to be seventy-five? He didn't answer that. He said he'd wait for our opinions. We are putting them before us. She's staying to see if she's in the mood to make an improvement. I shall end with this: Mr Petropoulos, if he were here, would have to answer a simple question from now on. We provide health services even to uninsured citizens. Very nice and good. You say you did it, we say that we did it and you simplified it. Can Mr Petropoulos explain to us, those due to the social security institutions - especially farmers and freelance professionals - why he holds them hostages and does not bring an arrangement here so that their pensions come out and that the amount of the debt is kept as a percentage of the pension, as we have proposed? Obviously it is a solution, which is very reasonable. It seems, however, that the proud negotiation has not allowed you to do so yet. We think you can hear us. The proposal for a poor bank, Bad Bank, Vice-President and Minister, which you referred to in the consultations with the banks, is a proposal that we have tabled in good time. Some people smuggled her. I think that from what you have told us earlier than the discussions you have with the banks in dealing with red loans, which will not be dealt with either with beatings outside the notaries' offices or with auctions, it is a proposal that you must take the courage to discuss and bring it here. Our contribution will be positive. Thank you, Mr President, for the slightest tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much Mr. Koutsuko. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Nikolaos Xydakis has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a political criticism was made by the opposition parties, mainly by the minor opposition of the Democratic Integration and a few comments from the major issue of the overall political agenda, to which Mr Vice-President replied in part, but also on the substance of some ideological remarks, which were probably the unfortunate inspiration for Mr Constantinople to begin and for Mr Koutsoukos to continue. In what sense? Nazis don't dare go on. I gave a first answer. The Vice President analysed it. I don't understand why you're picking this up. What are you gonna do? Are you going to make ideological criticism of SYRIZA why is there Golden Dawn? Is it the SYRIZA that exists the neonazi phenomenon and has harvested in Greece the crisis and social transformation and the social ruins? I don't think that's a political thought. If you have any anxiety about your ideological character, if you're right or left, let's talk about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u114	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u115	Please, Mr. Comrade. It's legitimate. You're going to a conference. That's acceptable. It is an honest political debate. Do not seek to find a political figure and a center of gravity attacking the right-wing or left-wings. There's room for everyone. You report bilingualism and what the government says. We have said this a hundred times as a party of power with tradition, you know that in foreign policy and in big issues, a voice is heard in every government: that of the Prime Minister. It's what the Prime Minister says. In both foreign policy and the big issues that have arisen in recent times, both in Macedonian and Greek-Turkish, the Prime Minister's voice is. He's the one in charge, and he's the one talking. With regard to your anxiety, the legitimate one and - I hope - as an adjunct to the national effort for the fate of the two military prisoners in Turkey, you are well aware that they were arrested by a state which has made thousands of arrests of its own citizens and many arrests of foreign citizens. It's a state in which military law applies. If that were not the case, it is not a state which is distinguished by its legality and by its observance of the rule of law which distinguishes Western democracies. You know very well what the circumstances are and how it happened. You are probably not aware that we are all in the process of a new historic phase. You probably do not know that Turkey will continue to tension. All the evidence suggests to this effect. That is why another strategy is now needed by Greece. The strategic investment of the Greek foreign policy for a Turkey that would be disbursed into the European Union seems not to exist. Neither the European Union unconditionally wants Turkey to enter its territory nor does Turkey wish or tolerate the rule of law and the regulations and restrictions of the great European alliance. For Greece, therefore, all the great strategy for the launching of the "thymium" through European rules will have to be re-examined. At this historic stage we are now in the great geopolitical liquidation of the Middle East and the strongest vibrations that all of the Mediterranean and Europe are taking. We also have a Erdogan, who has changed to an international turmoil, isolated from his traditional allies, but who has not ceased to be very powerful and very dangerous as a wounded dream of empire to become the leader of Sunniism. So we also need a new strategic doctrine with commitments, with shocks, with treatments, with seriousness from all the political forces that they consider to be within the development of a long-standing national strategy. If, therefore, colleagues from the Democratic Association, the former PASOK, feel that they have a reason, some concern and care and power to participate in a new national policy, the invitation was open. The Prime Minister met the President of the River, Mr Theodorakis, yesterday and discussed terms, frameworks and conditions. The doors are open. The need for national convergences and national commitments is open and constant and imperative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, we won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u117	A similar invitation was made by the President of the SYRIZA, both in two major institutional cases and in the vote on the simple analogy - and you deaf - towards a progressive constitutional review and we are still waiting for your reply. If, then, you have a language that is influenced by a progressive DNA, the DNA of progressive postmulsion, if you remember the first four years of the 1980s, think a little differently. You are not surrounded by enemies and opponents. You are surrounded by new political forces, which implement and express new social subjects. You may not be expressing the lusts and needs of society as it has been shaped after the "part" of the great modernization and the great "fuss" and the great deception and great interlocutors. If you're talking about bilingualism, I'll remind you of an incident of law. In 2010 the Papandreou government passed the law on ‘KALIKARAT’. There was an article, in 236, which foreshadowed the hereditaries, if they were convicted of being sentenced to the tripartite court for a crime of dishonor, to be put on holiday. In 2014 on the government of Samaras and your participation in the government, this article was amended and with the use of this new legislative environment Mr. Beos was found again Mayor at Volos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u118	When did it change?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u119	In 2014, like other laws of the government of Papandreou "delegated" by the government of Samaras - Venizelos. And the citizenship law was distorted. And the law on the evaluation of civil servants has been distorted. They've become illusions. And the SYRIZA government that you blamed for socks - populists and regained legislation that was indeed modernistic and reformist and restored them to the better, enhanced and operating now. Do these contribute to a progressive reform of society? You "delegated" to the Government of Samara - Venizelos. So let us talk about the substance of acts and incidents in this difficult historical period of the crisis that began in 2009-2010 and continues, with seriousness and responsibility. The challenges are very great in both the field of economic reconstruction, national reconstruction - I insist that I say - which will need a national council with convergences and commitments with at least a decade's horizon on the issues of security and the new geopolitical reality surrounding our country in the Mediterranean and in Europe and on the issues of strengthening and rebirth of democracy, which was indeed afflicted in the years of the crisis. So if the political forces are looking here the next day, there are signs, even focal points, small fields, but areas in which everyone needs to agree, because an agreement means a commitment, it does not mean 'Korea' by the Step, by the television 'ambushes' or by the steps that are not responsible. Here, recorded opinions, judgments and comparisons with what we said last year and before eight years ago and what we did. With these remarks, I would like to put you in a thought fertile and not criticism from the mountains, to shout for SYRIZA that he is responsible for the neonazis, because only sadness and grief brings this about the insanity that your own attitude and your criticism bear. I don't know if you have anything else to ask the Vice President, the Minister. In political terms, however, these are the issues. Calm down and improve a little the linguistic morale. It's not appropriate. No one speaks to you anymore from the government in this way to speak like this. Even the New Democracy parliamentary representative was allied, worldly. He said foreign policy. We fully answered him. He's got the answers. We say the same every day, take it easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much Mr. Xydakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u121	With your permission, let me take the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u122	Please have the floor for a minute, because it might also be interesting, but not to open a dialogue. I don't know if Mr. Xydakis agrees. I don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Since it seems that the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman found interesting what I said about the relationship of democracy with the truth and the need for national understanding and wider social consensus, and because he actually asked me a few questions, for a minute I would like to say this: Mr. Xydakis, I would like to remind you that in the summer of 2015, when the country was hanging on a thread, Mrs. Gennimata in the Presidential Palace put before Mr. Tsipras a three-year roadmap of a three-year exit from the crisis and the memoranda. You chose another way. We are not now aspiring to replace Mr. Kammenos on this road you have chosen. After the elections - whenever they take place, because they will soon be - the proposals of the Change Movement, as will be ratified by our conference on the weekend coming, will be an open invitation to all political forces of the democratic arch for a course of exit from the crisis with national understanding and social consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u124	Thank you. Parliamentary spokesman from the Association of Centres, Mr Anastasios Megalamoustakas, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to this directive, I would like to make a reference to the major question of the harmonisation of the Greek legal order with European law. Three are the features which must govern the incorporation of directives which, unfortunately, we have seen that they are not followed by the Greek Government at the moment or before, of course, the validity, completeness and correctness of these directives. Unfortunately, we have seen that the SYRIZA Government is not the case. The directives come late, they come with flooding, and in many cases they are not correct. At this point I would like to stress that since July 2010, when the International and Community Affairs Office of the General Secretariat of the Government was founded, up to its abolition in September 2015, immediately after the elections you have won, Greece had succeeded from the last position, from the twenty-seventh, to come to the second and in one case, even in the first place, as regards the harmonisation of European directives by the Member States of the European Union. And you've achieved something positive to tear it down. This has also resulted in budgetary implications, as this office had saved half a billion euros in the Greek economy from the downside fines, because we were not in line with European directives. We're talking about half a billion euros! You don't understand why they don't come out of your pockets immediately. This is what Greek citizens pay for. We have seen you take measures and look for countermeasures for much smaller amounts. This, beyond the financial cost, also cost the seriousness, the prestige of the Greek side, as we returned to the forefront and became the bad students of the class again. We had succeeded in Europeans talking about genuine success story and best practice in this area of harmonisation with European directives. It was a positive thing the previous ones had done and you came and destroyed it. Why did that happen? Because, as we think, you wanted to take care of the ‘locals’. Where it was an office which managed these cases and should have, in addition to a fire brigade, a perfect character, you come and you do away with it and give it its authority to a multi-teaching system, which manages the harmonisation of directives, the Ministry of the Interior, the General Secretariat of the Government, the Directorate for Coordination, the Ministry of Economy and we do not account for all these co-legislative ministries. Such an organisation can only bring about overlapping, timeshares and finally have the results that we now have: from where we were in the first positions, we have back into the last. This, unfortunately, is all it gives you once again by hand. In all areas, unfortunately, this is what we see: serious negligence and negligence of what had been achieved by the former. On this bill, once again you come with a dangerous delay, because there may also be fines for our country from the European Union, to bring in this transposition of the directive. We are unable to understand this even more, as your own government was supposedly cut off to eradicate cartels from the Greek market, from the Greek economy and improve the conditions of competition between large and multinational companies with small and medium-sized enterprises. We cannot therefore understand why you did not bring it forward, even though it is a directive dating back to November 2014 under Greek law. And your Government not only slowed to incorporate it, but also puts it with retroactive force since December 2016, wanting to bridge in an arbitrary way the time spent and thus legitimise your own negligence, your own curiosity. And we are talking about the Greek economy, which, unfortunately, even with the current crisis conditions, is still suffering from cartels in many important areas of our economic activity. I would remind you of what your government had promised to disappear when the 'first time left' came. On the substance of the bill, we are, firstly, facing this directive as a pro-European party. However, there are some objections here as to how you bring her. And we will then talk about them in the form of questions. As we have also stressed in our intervention in the committee concerned, the harmonisation of the competition rules between Member States at European Union level seeks to correct the individual differences that exist in each Member State and to restore part of the damage suffered by consumers in particular by certain companies. The costs of these losses amount to between EUR 13 and 37 billion. As we have often done, the Centroon Union attaches enormous importance to the uninterrupted exercise of economic activity, always based on the economic progress of healthy businesses, with an emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprises, as this is the axis and pillar that mainly supports the Greek economy and society, and we aim to have cheaper and more quality products for the final consumer. In this context, therefore, respect for healthy competition rules is a prerequisite for us to the proper functioning of the economy and to facilitate consumers. This will only make it more effective to protect their rights. However, the fact that it is not provided for in the directive which enables us to apply collective compensation for moral harm caused by unfair competition and the carteling of important sectors of the economy to some extent weaken the role that this directive could play. Obviously, this was not the case because it would play an indirect role as a regulator of the market for consumer associations, which is naturally avoidable in large companies. However, the proof that the final consumer was charged by the increased prices due to the existence of a cartel is difficult, as it should be demonstrated that the increased prices due to the cartel were passed on to the consumer and were not absorbed by the direct buyer of the product. We also have a problem with the difficulty of quantifying the damage suffered by the consumer by this unfair commercial behaviour of a company. How will this difference be determined by the consumer for the product, due to the intervention of the cartels, by the price he would pay? These are questions that should have been answered. Furthermore, the administration of the special section of the Court of First Instance with appropriate judges to judge cases of unfair competition would, as provided for in the bill in Article 13, help. We fear, however, that this will not be a very easy case, since it requires specialisation of these judiciary officials in matters of European law, competition and economic issues in general, which is not entirely self-evident for a large portion of our judges. We also wonder who will be able to benefit from the provisions of this bill and the possibility of bringing an action for damages to companies that violate competition law. Do you think that small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to compete on an equal footing with large multinationals? Do you think they have the same financial opportunity to hire these lawyers to support them? These are concerns that you should have. There are concerns which do not lead us to vote in favour of this bill, which is why we will vote 'at present', as we are positive about the idea of dealing with this kind of issue. However, the way our bill comes is very difficult. You do the same with amendments. You are bringing amendments, multimodalities, with which, by reading them, we are initially positive, we want to vote in favour. However, there are small instruments which do not allow us to do so. This is not the right way to legislate, to bring last minute amendments that hide traps in. We cannot be accomplices with you in this crime that is being committed against the Greek economy, which is made not only by you but also by the previous ones. What you must do is bring the new and this change that you have promised in the world rather than follow the same tactic and, in many cases, go even worse than the previous ones. Unfortunately, that's what you're doing. We would like you to look a little more seriously at the way you legislate, the way you exercise authority, because you are not even in the parliamentary control you refer to us you are not right. Questions are asked, which are never answered. They are systematically avoided. This is not a serious way of bringing us two amendments, where you are talking about information systems. We saw what happened, what was the ridiculous assumption of the "exocognos" case. It did not take too long to understand that they should be divided into regions, so that the system would not stir up and fall. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need a little more time, Mr. President. We cannot be in 2018 and extend from 2017 to 2018 and now to 2019 for the creation of information systems. These should have been self-evident, created for years. Maybe it's the first thing you'd do to get that change here. It is an important reform. To digitize all the elements, to enter an information system is necessary in Greece and there is not even for the simplest. So change comes and does not want radical and radical reforms. He just wants us to do the simple, self-evident, logic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much Mr. Megalustakas. They have asked for Mr Constantinople and Mr Vardalis to be seconded. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. We have told you, Minister, that the answers you have given specifically on both issues, and you understand that it is not in the right direction. Still, I'm going to overlook it. From what I understand, you don't want to make any changes in this process. I'll go to what Mr. Xydakis said. I want to thank him for his great interest in the party, first of all. I am pleased to see that many reforms took place in 2009-2012, because I remember that at that time we were called 'junta' and 'the junta did not end in 1973'. But, Mr. Xydakis, I'm going to get through all this. Mr Kammene, you are present, but you will allow me to refer to you. Mrs Kavvadia, your Member, said of Mr Kammenos that she was an addict of racist and right-wing views. That's who you're fighting with. We those who co-operate with rival racist and extreme right-wing viewers have nothing to do with it, Mr Xydakis. We're a progressive party. We don't do foreheads or right-wings. That's why...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u128	Do you accept that designation for me, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u129	No, I said what Mrs. Cavadia says. This is an internal relationship
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u130	I know. But do you adopt him?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u131	When we talked about your party - because we don't speak personally, we talk about the parties - they said some people aren't. If they're already accepting it, what am I supposed to do, Mr. Kammenos? You rule with them. Decide what you want to do. So I answer. There are no left-wing left-wing rulers. They only do it for the chair if they want. If they don't want to, they make other decisions. We fronts with right-wing, extreme right-wing, supposedly left-wing, do not do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Xydakis, would you like to answer? Then I'll answer, though I'm not allowed. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Constantinople, you may be anxious to distinguish yourself in the founding party, which will also acquire a statute and principles and ideological axis. I respect that. But do not use the history of people, the words of absentees, the history and the agony of a people who stood up to wars and disasters and within the twentieth century, the history of a Left who, in its weaknesses and its crackdown, wrote a matching story. Do not also take advantage of the seriousness and sincerity with which I have addressed you to say these cheap things, using this present Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u135	I used Mrs. Cavadia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u136	I am so sorry and I am ashamed of what I have heard from your mouth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u137	If I may, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, take some of your time. I think it is inappropriate to transfer these designations to the House because they have become a fashion from anyone. Conflicts are judged by their work. We have the power and democracy of speech. I would hope and wish you, in your meeting with the New Democracy, as well, had the same opportunity to choose and not say "yes" in everything, in secret doors and behind "curtain 3". Mr. Vardalis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. I would particularly like to refer to the amendments. But you will allow me two comments on issues that have had a lot of discussion today in the Chamber. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] The first is: in the opinion of the Communist Party of Greece, fascism, Nazism is a child of this rotten capitalist system and exploits it when it needs it, when it needs to be whiped, to ensure the profitability of business groups. In our opinion, therefore, the fight against fascism, Nazism, is directly linked to the fight against the system in this rotten capitalist system. My second point is that, in my opinion, the Minister attempting to oppose the arguments of the Communist Party of Greece has made a conscious - I stress it, conscious - an attempt to acquit this rotten capitalist system. And I say it consciously, because the Minister knows. He knows, for example, that this way of organising the economy, the capitalist way, has laws that apply to all,'silver' laws. Of course, unequal growth, which is one of these key laws, creates differentiations between sectors of the same economy, between capitalist countries, even - even between companies in the same sector in the same country. In all cases, however, the aim of this way of organising the economy is to ensure the maximum profit, through the exploitation of the labour force. Because, after all, the profit does not fall out of the sky. There are a number of issues which in any case do not take us time, issues relating to the directive that we are discussing, with the strengthening of competitiveness, of competition between business groups. What is the story of the entire capitalist system? Isn't it a story of strengthening monopolies from the manufactura, the crafts, the monopoly, the cartels? What does the evolution of this system show? Where, then, does his development lead? That's what we told you. But what impressed me is why the Minister raised these issues. What was he going to do? That is exactly what I said to you: Conscientious, that is, to acquit this system. What did he want to tell us through this effort? That, because there are differences between countries in the same capitalist system, there may be philosophical solutions in this system. If I understood correctly, that's what you told us. But that's exactly what you want to create. Of course, through the struggle of the workers themselves within this system, the conditions for selling their labour force can be improved. However, when this struggle is not linked to the main opponent, the main reason, which is precisely the design of this economy based on profit, these results of the struggle and will be temporary and will also be at the first opportunity, especially when it finds a weak labour movement and not at the tables of your Government's negotiations in the European Union and NATO, then the bourgeoisie, the capital takes them back to the first. So, in our opinion, what is needed is the change in this way of organising this economy, which serves the gain rather than satisfying today's, modern workers' needs and, of course, it is not the support, as you do, of this system, and it is delusional that it can with a fair, supposedly growth that everyone has a benefit: and the profits of eating and workers spending a happy life. This can only be done by socialising the concentrated means of production, i.e. the tools with which the working class produces all this wealth. Finally, on this issue, it is not right what you said, Mr Minister, because in our country the rural economy is not "capitalised". Obviously, you will know that from 25% a few years ago, 20 years ago, that is, they were active in the rural economy, today we are talking about 4.5% to 6%, at best. What result was that? Was it not that the rural economy is being capitalised? If you go to the village today, four to five farmers have a thousand acres. They may not be in their property, but they sow in a thousand acres. Of course, there are still small and medium-sized. But with the development of competition, with the development of the capitalist rural economy, they will be the first to leave the field, to be destroyed. This has been happening all over the last few years. Now, these reform of agricultural crops, quality products and so on, we have been hearing them for years from those who you are now calling old civilians. I shall now turn to the amendments. First of all, it is known that the workers and the self-employed are counting countless injuries to insurance and, more generally, to their pension rights, with the recent law that you have passed, the well-known 'Katrugalos Law'. These wounds are not only confined to pensions, but also to health and welfare. I am referring to the amendment with a general number of 1511 and a special 26, dealing with certain issues of health care. The JRC's position on these issues, I think, is well known. We believe that all workers and people in the public spheres should have full insurance and medical care and cover without any - but none - condition by an exclusively public and free health system, without participation in medicines, etc. This amendment deals with a number of issues that can be exploited by certain categories of workers. That is why we will vote for it. However, in no case meets today's social security needs of workers and other people's strata. Finally, because I see that time is over too, I would like to say a word about Amendment No 1509 and a special item of item 24. We will vote against it. Here you are trying to help speed up capitalist development by facilitating foreign trade, that is, facilitating export businesses. However, this more rapid processing concerns large exporting companies in particular. After all, the problems of small and medium-sized enterprises are not the bureaucracy that, in this case, you are trying to deal with, but how they will pay taxes, carpets, insurance, debts, how they can cope with this competition that you are shielding, but they are sending them to the tartars. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the Minister's speech, to conclude with the speakers and move on to the voting procedure, I would like to make a statement to this House. MEP Mrs Theodora Bakoyannis calls for a short-day absence abroad from Wednesday 14 March 2018 until Friday 16 March 2018, as she will be invited to Baku as a speaker at the 6th Global Baku Forum.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u140	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Vice-President of the Government - Minister for Economy and Development Mr. Ioannis Drasakis has the floor. Minister, do you have five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u141	I hope I speak less. The issues that have been raised are many and I would be unfair if I referred to them now. I just want to say that I was pleased with the debate in Parliament because, on the occasion of almost technical grounds, a series of issues and problems exist. I would like to make some clarifications. My reference to the Golden Dawn did not have the character of a dialogue with the Golden Dawn. It was about the world that listens to us, because the Golden Dawn is an organization subjugated with too many trials. After all, several members are already persecuted. However, I think it is our duty to inform the Greek people with our views, with what we believe is behind this face of wrath for the problems that are created, without, of course, making any reference to the real causes and to the solution to these problems. As far as the Communist Party of Greece is concerned, I do not want to underestimate what you said, Mr Colleague, or what I said, but they have been much better described in the Communist manifesto so many years ago. The issue is the eleventh place for Foyerbach, namely: 'This given, what we are doing'. There, we have a differentiated attitude, but there too, I see a possibility of convergence in fighting for the best. From there on, everyone has their strategy of where to integrate this race. The third thing I would like to stress, however, is that the time we are living is at risk, but it also has potential. The area we are in is increasing this even more. This is where this contradiction of risks and capabilities is even greater. I think it is important to mention the dangers of having the character and the effort of how to prevent them or whether there are what to do to deal with them. In itself, invoking the dangers, I do not think it helps anything, it also creates more problems. In that sense I would also like to see what I said in introductory terms, where we are today as a country. The exit from a state of bankruptcy is not like turning the switch. The consequences of bankruptcy and crisis are so much and have so much depth that exit from the memorials is just one of the conditions, one step. We often use the term 'light'. Not that we are done, but in order to be able to form and see how we will resolve the deeper problems that exist, because they exist, and some are stronger. In this situation, then, I think it is important to try to be as objective as possible. I see many times - we all suspect in this mistake - that some governments only look at positive ones, not oppositions only look at negative ones, and they usually have a cohesion between them. From this point of view, and without underestimating difficulties and problems, I would like to say that after a painful real experience the country has reached the point of being in the final phase of exit from the memoranda. This phase is thin and requires attention. In this sense, too, the Minister for Finance, who has a special, increased weight in the negotiation, is trying to heed his words. But I want to tell you that we have nothing to hide. As far as exiting the memoranda is concerned, the roads are two. One is the so-called preventive line, namely to discuss a new pact, which must go to parliaments or at least to certain parliaments. The German parliament must discuss it. This pact will take the form of a memorandum, it will have obligations. So it won't give us that opportunity to say that we're done, we're standing on our feet, we're planning our future, and we're taking over ourselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u142	Are you telling us a new memorial?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u143	I say that would mean if someone were to adopt the preventive line. This is the one way. The other way is - and the positive one here is that we have agreed to him the other way - instead of resorting to a preventive line, trying to create our own reserves so that, if in the coming years we have been on the market there are some turbulences and we have some difficulties, we will have our own money locked in, the money will not be used for another purpose. And so we are in the process of building these courses. What have we agreed to with the lenders? We have agreed that from the EUR 86 billion loan we will take about 9 billion and that from the markets we will try to raise the sum we can raise. Already I have to tell you that more than 4.5 billion people have assembled. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The markets today are like this, of course, tomorrow is different. The interest rates are dropping, and the interest rates are rising. We are, however, on a positive course that we will soon have built this whole stock that will enable us to meet our needs. Does that mean we can do whatever we want? Does it mean that we should not observe rules that other countries observe? Does it mean that we should not ourselves, regardless of rules, make sure that we do not repeat mistakes or pathogens of the past? All of this is self-evident. So I want to close by saying that, after many sacrifices, many sufferings in the world have arrived at a critical point, but it is a phase out of this whole situation. I would therefore propose restraint from all of us, our views, our confrontation, the labelling of opinions and risks if anyone wishes to do so, but with this reservation. There were forces that predicted that the first evaluation would not be closed, closed. The second one won't close. It's closed. The third one won't close. Now some people bring the flood, say what will happen if. We have a plan that has a positive direction and has a provision of care and as far as difficulties and risks are concerned. I would therefore like to conclude by making this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development is hereby finalised: ‘Incorporation into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/104/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on certain rules governing claims for damages under national law for infringements of the provisions of competition law of the Member States and of the European Union and other provisions’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u146	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u148	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u149	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u150	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u151	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u152	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u153	Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Incorporation into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/104/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on certain rules governing compensation actions under national law for infringements of the provisions of competition law of the Member States and of the European Union and other provisions’, was accepted in principle by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u155	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u156	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u157	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u158	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u160	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u162	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u166	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u167	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u171	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u173	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u175	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u176	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u178	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u180	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u184	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u185	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u189	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u192	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u193	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u194	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u196	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u198	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u200	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u202	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u203	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u207	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u211	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u212	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u216	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u220	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u221	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u225	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u229	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u230	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u234	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u236	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u238	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u239	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u242	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u243	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 11 as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u246	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u247	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u248	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u252	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u253	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u256	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u257	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u261	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u263	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u265	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u266	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u268	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u270	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u274	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u275	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u276	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u279	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u280	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u281	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u283	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u284	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u285	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u286	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u288	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u290	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u291	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u292	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u293	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u295	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u297	Article 16 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of Nos 1502 and 23 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u299	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u301	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u304	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u305	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u306	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1502 and a special number of 23 was accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same articles. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1509 and a special number 24?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u308	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u310	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u311	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u315	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1509 and a special 24 was accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree to the amendment by a general number of 1510 and a specialist of 25?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u317	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u318	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u319	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u320	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u323	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u324	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1510 and a specialist number 25 were accepted as it stands and is included in the bill as the same articles. Does the House accept Amendment Nos 1511 and 26, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u326	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u327	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u328	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u329	Nope.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u332	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u333	The amendment under general number 1511 and a special 26 were therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister and incorporated into the bill as the same articles. We are entering the vote of the nominee. The House asks: Is the office acceptable, as amended by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u335	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u337	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u338	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u340	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u342	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Incorporation into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/104/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on certain rules governing compensation actions under national law for infringements of the provisions of competition law of the Member States and of the European Union and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u346	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u347	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u351	The bill was accepted by a majority in total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Incorporation into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/104/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on certain rules governing compensation actions under national law for infringements of the provisions of competition law of the Member States and of the European Union and other provisions’, has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u352	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u353	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Friday 22 December 2017, Monday 8 January 2018, Tuesday 9 January 2018 and Thursday 11 January 2018 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u354	The minutes of Friday 22 December 2017, Monday 8 January 2018, Tuesday 9 January 2018 and Thursday 11 January 2018 were hereby validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-03-14-S1-commons.u355	With the agreement of the House at 17.38 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 15 March 2018 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
