ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: 'Amendment of Law 3190/1955 on Limited Liability Companies and Other Provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 22 May 2018 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting on principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. We start with the two rapporteurs and the six special speakers. Parliamentary representatives can take the floor, whenever they want. I guess they'll want to hear the minister first and then talk. If they want to do so earlier, it goes without saying that the reason will be given earlier. I also consulted the Minister. If he's ready for the legislative improvements he wants to make, I'll give him the floor. Otherwise he will take the floor after those colleagues who are enrolled. As far as I understand it, there won't be too many of them. That's how we're gonna move on. I think we'll be done soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u3	Will the Minister tell us about the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u4	Yes, I am saying that he will speak to us about the legislative improvements and the amendments together. It is now looking at the amendments made by some colleagues. The three ministers who have amendments will come to support them, Mrs Papanatsiou, Mr Fotakis and Mr Toskas. So my fellow Members and, above all, the parliamentary representatives will have a picture of all three ministerial amendments. The registration is done electronically for any colleague who wants to register. I would ask Mr Athanasios to open the registrations now and close as soon as they come down from the Step. We are starting with the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill for companies with limited liability, which we are debating today, is the first of a number of bills that have one objective: the reform, the modernisation of the country's trade legislation. The new law on public limited liability companies is to be submitted in the next few years, and in general arrangements will be introduced to facilitate commercial activity in the country and strengthen trade. With this draft law, therefore, we are introducing regulations simplifying the establishment and operation of commercial companies, which modernise the legal framework that governs them, which facilitate their international trade and the establishment of European and other foreign branches, as well as the establishment of such companies. In general they are regulations aimed at stepping up the real needs of traders, but also to stimulate the country's trading market in practice. There has been quite a detailed and thorough discussion at the meetings of the Standing Committee. Indeed, what we need to see is that there was a broad parliamentary consensus on the bill, but even the bodies at the hearing found that the whole of the bill was moving in the positive direction. I shall therefore dwell on some very specific points in the draft bill, which, in our view, are the substance of it. The bill is composed of two parts. In its first part, as I have already said, changes are being introduced which improve the legislative regime governing the establishment and operation of limited companies, and the second part contains mainly provisions which clarify issues arising from the practical application of the recent rural trade law. Article 1 therefore gives flexibility to the name of limited companies. In accordance with this arrangement, it is no longer compulsory to be formed by the names of the partners or the object of the business, as was the case to date, but it can also be formed by other indications. This means that it can help with the marketing of EIAs and improve their competitiveness, taking into account all the guarantees for consumers' non-default. I should also like to dwell on the point that the name of the EIA can be shaped whole with Latin characters, which until now was only allowed for the distinctive title of a company and not for its name. Article 2 contains a provision for setting up a limited liability company which can now also be made using a model statute and not exclusively by a notarial document provided for in Law 4441/2016, if and if, of course, this is chosen by the founders - partners. Where, in fact, the use of the model statute is preferable, the company contract may also be drawn up by a private document. At this point we should stress that, in addition to how it is recommended, the new draft law and the same article expressly state that the company acquires legal personality from the registration and publication of the act's constituent in the General Commercial Register. Also very important is the intervention introduced by the new law in Article 3 with regard to the possibility of convening the meeting of the EIA partners by teleconferencing. Also important for flexibility in the functioning of the EIAs is the new regulation introduced by Article 6, which alters the predominant percentage of the required two-quarters majority from three-quarters to two-thirds for the modification of a corporate contract and the resolution decision of the company. The new arrangement therefore makes the amendment of an EIA corporate contract by a two-thirds majority of the total number of partners holding two thirds of the share capital. Finally, the amendments introduced by Article 8 concerning the establishment of foreign companies in our country are very important. In particular, there is a distinction between the establishment of foreign companies from the European Union and the European Economic Area from those from third countries. So, in order to specify a little more, the establishment for foreign companies from the European Union is simplified, as a decision on the establishment is not required by the competent supervisory authority, whereas, on the contrary, in the case of foreign third-country companies, a decision on establishment is required by the competent authority, namely the Directorate for Companies of the General Secretariat for Trade and Consumer Protection of the Ministry of Economy and Development or the Regional Unit which is responsible for this. I should now like to come to the second part of the bill, which contains regulatory and clarificational provisions of the rural trade law. I shall refer to a number of important points. The first is that Article 14 provides an extension until 15 January 2019 to sellers of the people's markets and to sellers of on-site and on-site trade to renew their licenses received in accordance with Law 4264/2014, and it also states that in the event of a period of more than one year after the expiry of the producer's licence, a procedure for issuing a licence shall not be required if, in that period, the producer submits a request for renewal. In this way, the producer is actually making it easier and does not lose his position. I would also like to stress the right for people with disabilities to be active in rural trade even after receiving a disability pension. This regulation is important enough for our fellow citizens with disabilities, as we all know that many of them need to continue professionally to cope with the needs of their disability. However, in the provision it is specified that in any case it remains as a condition for the renewal of the licence or for the withdrawal of an old age pension. Finally, let us point out that Article 15 contains arrangements for harmonising the framework for issuing the guarantee letters in accordance with the European directives. Ladies and gentlemen, the facilities provided by today's legislative initiative are, in our opinion, aimed at an important part of the business and act as an incentive to citizens who wish to attempt flexibly. Three important points are: simplifying the establishment and operation of an EIA, reducing administrative costs for its establishment, and facilitating the installation of an EIA from the European Union area by abolishing administrative approval, making foreign investments more attractive by reducing bureaucracy and administrative burdens. We all know that most of the EIAs are businesses consisting of so-called small and medium-sized enterprises. So small and medium-sized professionals I think it is a common assumption that they are a very important part of the backbone of the Greek economy, while at the same time feeding the market with employment. Our aim should therefore be to facilitate the creation and operation of innovative small and medium-sized enterprises, which will also be able to use the scientific potential of the country in and outside the Greek territory. So today, when we could say that we have a positive movemum for the Greek economy, which is commonly accepted by all the indicators, but also by the international factor, the state must create conditions for the lifting of these turbulence in order to create a modern institutional framework, which will in practice facilitate the creation and functioning of these small and medium-sized enterprises. So this is a law which I believe is the beginning of a series of initiatives in this direction, and that is why I call on the House to vote for both article and whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u6	Thank you too, Mr. Meikopoulou, and for your brief. The general rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Charalambos Athanasios, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Development introduces a bill to Parliament which, according to its authors, aims to modernise the framework governing limited companies, No.3190. On the substance of the first 13 articles, it amends Law 3190, as I mentioned, and it includes three articles relating to other matters. It is certain that this legislation is a Memorandumary obligation. The draft law, as I have said in committee, has left me mixed impressions. Some of the specific provisions I consider to be useful and welcome. Some other amendments, which the draft law entails, were necessary due to the introduction of new provisions, in particular those concerning the publication of the General Commercial Register, recently introduced. That is why our position has been and is positive at the outset and on specific articles such as, for example, the names of the RES, the modification of the double majority threshold to 2/3 of 3/4 for important decisions. In the majority I think that you will also bring some legislative improvement, Mr Minister, in accordance with Mr Kaklamani's amendment. So we'll talk about it during. Let's not end up right now. In any case, we need improvement and you have made it right. There are also provisions to introduce the institution of the partners' meetings through teleconferencing and to facilitate the exit of the partner, as well as arrangements concerning foreign companies based in Greece, namely, as regards their organisation, operation, headquarters and other issues. In other provisions, as I will say, we have had reservations. But in some of these, after the legislative improvements you have brought, Minister, we are positive. We talked about them yesterday in committee and we will vote on them. But for other things, we expect improvements. As I said, we want to hear them and see how we are going to proceed. For example, we have a concern about the people's markets in Article 14. It's a piece of legislation that you recently brought - in 2017 - and while it was voted on, you make these changes. It is an issue that we want to hear from you and I will, if necessary, come back to you according to the amendments you make. Apart from that, I have to note that this is a somewhat rough draft law, as I have been given the opportunity to tell you in committee. This is reflected in some of the provisions which are clearly formulated, but mainly in a simple reading of the explanatory statement, which is essentially incomplete and certainly malicious, because it is limited to a short repetition of the provisions introduced, without essentially referring to the strategy and philosophy behind the proposed changes. In addition, the minimum amount of information due is not provided. Several times in the explanatory memorandum refer to provisions which need to be amended in order to adapt to Union law, but without mentioning what EU legislation and the specific provisions that heighten these changes are. The draft law fails to its main purpose, as I said. Although positive, it is a technocratic bill and had to be done or modernised the EIA law. Those who are involved in company law know that the EIA is a company institution which, in part, has fallen into disuse, well or bad, much more when this form of company has entered into our fairness - positively I say it - or rather this form of private capital companies. The draft law cannot answer the basic question that a businessman may have to deal with today. What's that? Why would anyone prefer to set up an EIA? If he wishes to establish the company easily and with flexibility, he will surely prefer the private capital company. We see today, from practice in the courts, that they are rarely doing an R & D unless it is a single person or a small person. They prefer private capital companies and, of course, public limited companies. From this point of view, no matter how positive the provisions in the draft law are, I think that they will ultimately not affect the decisions of entrepreneurs, nor will they be an incentive to create more RES. The draft law does not give new answers to the essential issues that determine the decisions, as long as companies are set up, namely the tax regime. What about the corporate tax? Is something changing? What's going to happen from now on? The dividend tax? And I'm saying that in view of the fact that we have a two-tier character? It is also a personal and corporate form of the company. The same applies to the insurance scheme. In these areas nothing changes and therefore there is no incentive for new EIAs, and there should be specific tax incentives at a time when we see that all companies with the initiatives taken by your Government are leaving abroad. You see what is happening now, Bulgaria and Romania have been flooded by Greek businesses, many of which are also an EIA. Of course, I'm not talking about anonymous companies. Above all, however, this draft law misses the opportunity to have a debate on the position of EIAs in the Greek economy. Who are they addressing? Who are they serving? What substantial differences do IKE have? How could they have an impact on a businessman's decision to prefer a particular company type? All these questions are not answered and, unfortunately, the EIAs, even after the vote on this bill, will remain a company press without clear advantages and without strategic targeting companies of particular characteristics. Finally, the draft law loses another great opportunity to codify existing legislation. Of course, you anticipate by law that you will proceed to codification. But it could be done with this project to finish once and for all. In any case, however, the provision is positive and you are welcome to bring it. Despite the individual positive provisions, our view is that the impact this bill will have on the economy, in the form that will eventually be voted on - we will also see the improvements that you will bring - will be small. At best, certain issues will be dealt with and the functioning of the existing EIA will be facilitated. Now, as far as the articles are concerned, I would also like to point out that, as far as Article 1 is concerned, we are in agreement with the broadening of the margin and options for the names of the EIA, as we agree with all the capital companies, and we agree with the changes concerning the formation of the company's capital. With regard to Article 2, we agree with the abolition of double disclosure in the General Commercial Register and in the Official Journal of the Government, as well as the establishment by a standard statute without any intervention of a notary. I told you, Minister, that we have reservations - I see that the Vice-President, Mr Drasakis - has come as far as the time is concerned and I say this in conjunction with Article 2 and Article 12 of the existing ones. Of course, if you wish, take a look at the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament and during the debate, we will discuss this because it is an unnecessary article. I do not know whether there is a question of transitionality, in other words Article 12, of the feasibility - not to say constitutionality - of the provision. But I wonder, since at any time, the power with companies can be modified and extended, what does it need to go through time limits? In Article 3, we agree with the provisions for the meeting of the partners, in particular for it to be carried out through the teleconferencing conference. Paragraph 4 has been clarified and we therefore agree. We also agree with paragraph 5 of that Article. Article 19 of Law 3190/1955 is amended here and it stipulates that the manager, whether or not he is in statute or has been designated by a decision of the Assembly of the Parties, shall be revoked by a decision of the Assembly of the Parties at any time on the basis of the majority principle, i.e. 50% and no longer required for a judicial decision, except in exceptional cases. That's right. Of course, that is the case-law of the Greek courts, and quite rightly your partners transposed the case-law into legislation so that there is no discernment. And in case of case-law it is a proper provision. Article 4 introduces Chapter III, which I consider to be quite important, and the New Democracy is voting in favour of it. The chapter concerns the preparation, control and publication of financial statements, the implementation of international accounting standards and the creation of additional reserves. This is a good provision, which is included in the philosophy of urban democracies and, of course, also a philosophy of my party. Article 5 amends Chapter D of Law 3190. We agree with the provisions on facilitating the transfer of a share of a company. However, we have reservations about the exit of the partners, which becomes free unless otherwise provided for in the statute. I told you that if this was not amended, we would be opposed to this provision, because this would mean the free exit of the partner from the EIA. While, under the current rules, the law does not allow the free exit, it merely allows the statute to provide for the possibility of free exit, which is also under judicial control. Why am I saying that? I say this because, as you know, Minister, I have been given the opportunity to say this to the committee, the EIAs are of a different nature, and they are personal companies and capital companies. So when I want to invest, I also look forward to the persons who make it up, on their economic surface, on their moral background, on their reputation on the market and on all these issues, which I think are characterised by an EIA. The current regulation is more transparent and preferable. Article 6 amends Capital E of Law 3190. Here we agree with the reduction in the percentages of the two-thirds majority from two-thirds, both for the partners and for the corporate shares, i.e. 2/3 of the partners representing two-thirds of the capital from the rate they have so far been. We agree with paragraph 4, which replaces Article 43(2), which enables the partner who wishes to leave the company, but which does not give him the judicial value of his share so far. We have had a great deal of dissatisfaction here in case-law. That is right with this provision. However - I told you yesterday - I do not know what you will bring, and I want you to take care of this because it will create major legal problems - the paragraph is completely unclear. We do not understand exactly what is laid down in this provision, as a new paragraph 5 is added to Article 38 of the Act, which states that in specific cases, such as the withdrawal of managers, the transfer of a company share, the exit and exclusion of partners, it is necessary to publish Article 8 of Law 3190, but not other formalities, i.e. contrary to the other cases of amendment to the Statute. That's it. However, as regards the scope of this exemption, there is obviously a legislative error, as the explanatory statement states that Article 15(1) of Law 3419 does not apply - it gives the result of the registration at the time - while the provision states that the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 is not required and that Article 15 of Law 3419 does not apply. It is therefore not clear whether the reference to paragraph 1 relates to paragraph 1 of Article 8 of L.3190 or to Article 15 of L.3419. Please see it. It'll cause you problems. We agree with the basic provision, and I do not discuss it. Let's go to article 7. Here it is foreseen that the solution of an EIA will no longer require a majority of 3/4 currently in force, but that the two-thirds of the partners representing the share capital. It also provides for the duration of the company to be extended unless the duration of the company is extended by a legal decision, as is apparent from the provisions on publicity. The provision yes, it strengthens transparency, but on the other hand imposes additional obligations on managers and partners. And so in practice it may be implemented with problems. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall finish, Mr President. In this Article, inter alia, it is laid down that if the company's total equity is less than 1/2 of the share capital, managers are required to convene the meeting of the partners in order to decide on the necessary measures. The provision is relatively vague, because we cannot know what the necessary measures are, and the previous one was more correct. So we will have the case law of a court, let's say the Court of Appeal Patras, tell other necessary measures, and Athens will say other things, Thessaloniki, Crete and so on. It is noted that for this matter the current provision of Law 3190 provides that in the event of a loss of half of the share capital, managers are required to convene a meeting of the partners to decide or dismantle the company or reduce the share capital. The revision referred to in Article 48(7) shall vary the financial statements and disclosure formalities of the liquidation and shall be introduced directly within three years. Otherwise, paragraph 6 shall apply mutatis mutandis. It is a bit difficult for non-legislative colleagues, but I am telling you about your colleagues, Minister, if it is understood and we will not have any problems. The possibility of rescuing the company is also introduced, under specific conditions, either by decision of the partners or by termination of the duration. It's a good thing. And the institutions supported this provision. And we would vote for it, but for the previous provisions, which we have reservations, it is a problem. And I told you, Minister - I don't know if you'll bring it - this article can be broken down. Why am I saying that? Because we, as you know from the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and from the Constitution, but especially from the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, are voting on them as a whole. In other words, it has positive paragraphs here, which we want to vote on, but we cannot vote on the entire article. If this breaks down, of course, we want to vote on the company's revival, so that the company is right. In Article 8, which concerns the necessary changes for European companies, we are positive. I'm not talking about it. I've said it from the first moment. Article 9 shall be corrected here for no reason in three paragraphs. You made this? Okay. We are voting on Article 9. Yes, I think you did, Minister, so we'll vote for it. In the field of competence and the place of jurisdiction you have the right to do so in jurisdiction. Don't put it in question or publicity, because it goes according to the procedure, so the court decides. You don't have to say that. Article 10 extends the arrangements of the draft law. About the names: here's a topic. In other words, while the name could also belong to the fantasy of the founders in the public limited liability companies, we had a reservation as to whether it could also be done in the sense that the public limited companies are private companies. But I saw that there is a precedent, so I withdraw my reservations. You convinced me the other day. That's what you're right about. As you can see, the New Democracy is doing everything positive for the country from wherever we come from, which was not done...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Athanasios, we need to pick up a little bit.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u9	I tell you now, Minister, because, anyway, you are more conscientious, and you will understand, because we are positive about the country's progress in any area. I shall conclude, Mr President. The other provisions are in Article 11. Okay, Article 11 is right. Article 12 is the duration of the company. I combine it with Article 2. I told you before, see the committee's report. The only thing I wanted to remain a little - on the people's markets - I will listen to you and say it again - is the amendment on the guarantee letters. This provision, Minister, needs a study. We do not want to vote against it. I'd say withdraw it if you can. It's a provision that we can study, see, put some sort of insurance policy in place. And the New Democracy will vote for it. We have no objections. In fact, it's a very serious matter. I was talking about it with Mr. Chiara. We do not want to be negative, but as the provision is right now, we cannot vote on it. I would say - we are good option - withdraw it, bring it to another piece of legislation to study it. Why am I saying that? Because there is a confusion of the guarantee with the guarantee letter. Another is the guarantee given by insurance companies guaranteeing the contractor. I mean, if he has any damage to his machine, or if a worker is injured or killed, he's going to make compensation. So the insurance company secures the contractor. And it is the letter of guarantee, which is a security to the Greek State. And I ask myself: all the insurance companies in our country - I do not want to describe them, but there are some that are not so libertarian - what happens when they make a guarantee letter, for example...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Athanasios, I'm sorry, but I can't leave you any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u11	Yes, Mr President, it is just a serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u12	Yeah, but hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u13	Look at that. Our view is whether you can withdraw it. You saw how positive we are and you'll see that we can talk about it. Otherwise, I have many reservations and I will see you at the end of the sitting. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance, but they were legal matters, as you have seen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u14	Minister, are you ready for legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u15	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u16	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister must put forward the legislative improvements so that they can be taken into account. You'll get the floor right after that, Mr. Carras. Minister, you have the floor. Since it's for legal improvements, I won't time you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u17	I'll just say a general conversation at the beginning. We did a very good job in committee. You remember we had tabled some legislative improvements. We're bringing another six now. I'm tabling them for the Minutes. Article 5 shall apply to Article 4. Mr Athanasios, we solve two - three issues from what you mentioned with the legislative improvements. It's detailed. You'll see them. Not to mention them now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u18	I would like to say something about the two amendments tabled, concerning qualified majority voting. I think we can make a joint proposal. In other words, the need for increased majorities, since there is 50% of the shareholders, and that 50% of the shareholders account for 65% of the capital, to be able to make a decision. I believe that this is one of the two amendments tabled by Mr Dimitras and Mr Kaklamani. I accept that, and I think we are helping to solve a number of problems in a large category of RES.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u19	Do you make a combination of these two?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u20	I am making a combination of the two amendments, and I think we are in agreement with that. Two topics were raised in the Committee on Public Health and Public Health. I would remind you that we also told the committee that there would be a bill in September on the change of the GFCM law, and the issues of supervision and publicity relating to all types of companies, we will resolve them with a serious debate. Our intention is for the Trade Register to emerge even further and it is not the only point that companies and companies are going to resort to. But these issues will be settled there. Also issues related to the conversion of EIAs into another type of company, we will regulate them in the bill we are preparing for transformations. That's in progress. Almost half is ready. It will be completed and we will be voting on this soon in conjunction with the GEMI Act.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u21	Is that where you'll bring the insurance companies?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u22	I'll be right back. Next week we will also discuss the replacement of Law 2190, a great piece of legislation, and so we will conclude all the issues after the cycle of these bills has been completed. I am referring to why comments have been made concerning control, publicity, which is very serious. We'll set it all together in this bill. As far as the insurance companies are concerned, we are also concerned. I believe that the developments we have in insurance, the two new directives that we incorporated into our law and the supervision of insurance companies, guarantee us that we do not have the problems you fear. Supervision is too strict and very specific. So I do not think there will be any issue of guarantee letters that will cause problems. On the contrary, it is a measure which, in my view, strengthens competition and will help businesses.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u23	Since we have the banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u24	We have the banks, however, will also help the cost of the guarantee letters. I think it is something the market is asking for and it will not be bad, I repeat, in conjunction with the latest developments in relation to supervision of insurance companies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u25	Supervision in Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u26	Where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u27	There is, there is! On rural trade issues we are giving an extension by the end of the year. Until then, the electronic register has been completed and we promise until then to regulate issues relating to tax and insurance information, to make a final set-up, but having a picture much cleaner and to resolve other aspects of the problem that are serious. For the time being, those who have the permits do not have any problem. Based on the latter law, licences can be granted to those who have applied for. At the end of the year we will have an overall arrangement, with the aim of resolving these issues that are not requested by others, only those who have licences for outdoor trade. That is what I have said in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and in the clarifications I have made on the issues that have been raised in the debate. If need be, then I'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u28	I will give the floor to Mr Karas, and then for two or three minutes I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Education, Mr Fotakis, to present his amendment. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. The Government brings a bill to rationalise the operation of limited liability companies. It is part of a wider legislative initiative, namely that it will streamline, improve the whole of company law, as the Minister has told us before. Of course we must also say a few words before that. The government's optimism for the last few days, when it showed the holistic development plan, proved that it was just optimism. Because immediately after the debate in plenary on the issue of the development of the economy at the initiative of the President of the Change Movement, the next morning the European Union tabled a draft supplementary memorandum, which proved to be a unique objective. That those prerequisites that were of the third memorial, summer 2015, have not been completed in many. These reforms have not yet been carried out and will have to be carried out in the next few months - with a commitment, as has been said by the translation of the supplementary memorandum that I have seen - to be made from the Greek Government's point of view. But who are these? These are, unfortunately, those which lead to further poverty in a large part of the Greek people and therefore also in the state, because they concern only fiscal, insurance and cutbacks. Therefore, the optimism, unfortunately, which the government is trying to show by means of company law, cannot be accepted and we cannot be optimistic accordingly. However, because today's debate concerns the technical issue of the EIA, I shall necessarily refer to a number of considerations. The EIAs are all aware of it. It was a conquest of the 1950s, because it solved two problems. The first problem he solved was the need for small capital in relation to anonymous companies at the time, when the company could be set up. It also gave the advantage of the limited liability of the partners. They could therefore give a small capital and have the limited responsibility to the extent of whose capital they have deposited. These, unfortunately, have been exhausted. There has been a change in the structure of the economy and the concept of the EIA does not exist in the sense of limiting responsibility, because they have also had to resort to bank lending and a signature by the so-called personal guarantee of their partners and families, it has turned them into all co-responsible and co-responsible contributors to the EIA. So the effort made in 2012 to introduce the private capital company institution was a reform for us. This is also the case today. Do we need to keep the EIAs? I think so, because there is a number that still operates in this legal form. Of course, as the committee has heard, it is constantly declining the number of new EIAs which are being set up, and the number of private capital companies is vastly larger. There is therefore a need not for developmental reasons or for the establishment of new enterprises in the form of limited liability. No one hopes for this, or at least the market does not say it is waiting for this bill to develop new activities. The market is waiting for something else, i.e. it expects this bill to simplify procedures, so that we can get away from this form of double majority, improve it and be able to operate. I have previously heard the Minister that he accepted the amendment by his colleagues Mr Kaklamanis, who had already been before. It's in the right direction. I would have supplemented what I had asked for in the committee. Not only do we accept the change in the majority but, Minister, and the extension of the change in limited liability companies in the form of a private capital company. According to the then transitional provision of Law 4072, which you yourself said, Minister, that it did not work, I have to say to you: It has been limited, a small number has implemented the conversion, but then in 2012, with a deadline that expired at the end of 2013, we have not yet entered the tunnel crisis that we entered from 2015 onwards. Therefore, today, we consider it necessary to extend the provision for conversion of the EIAs to a private capital company. We will therefore give a direct solution to the majority issues, because, as you know, the private capital corporation gives it the majority share in the majority. We will thus enable them to continue to exist - since the rule is now private capital. You told the committee in reply, as you did today, that this would be dealt with in a draft company transformation bill. I'm afraid it'll be a mistake, Minister. Why am I saying that? In Greece, first of all, we don't have a company code. We have an anonymous law, an EIA law, an IKE law. So you'll bring in the form of a code of transformations? It won't improve anything. I would like to propose, as far as the nomadic articles of each legislation are concerned, that any form of special company should be allowed to be transformed. Reminding the corresponding provisions of Law 2190, I would remind you of articles 50 next of Law 3190 on the EIA which provide for transformations. Give this way out, because we will get away from the risk of dissolving many RES. Irrespective of the improvements that are coming today, I do not think that the economic conditions allow this form of company to be maintained, given their unrestricted, essentially, responsibility in the form of a personal guarantee to the banks as I said earlier. So give this solution and give the company's transformation from now to the trunk of each piece of legislation, not to wait for a code, which will create many problems when we try to understand or classify different types of companies. Now on the substance of the bill: there are many provisions which we see positive. There are technical provisions which could be improved even further, but I will not insist on them for the reason that we expect to see the results of their implementation. We will not anticipate the outcome of the arrangements. We believe, of course, that there has been a study during the drafting stage and there will be no great problems. But what has concerned me very much and to which you have already referred, Mr Minister, is the question of insurance companies. They will issue guarantee letters of good execution of public works or tenders. If I understood that, that would be the kind of guarantee. It will not be a form of project insurance, because the project is already insured. They insurance the contractor, they insurance the staff under insurance contracts. A question is automatically raised as to how insurance companies will be supervised in this area. I'm gonna make a difference to that. The supervision you referred to, Minister, and in the acceptance of the directive which has recently been incorporated into Greek law, concerns the work of insurance and reinsurance supervision in the version of the publication, there is no reason why there is no special account. There is no special account provided for in each insurance company to be able to have a guarantee threshold. We cannot have a special prediction every year in what it publishes. You don't anticipate that. If you predict that within the accounts and the budgets of each insurance company we would have a special account, or that we would have funds in relation to the ceiling on the guarantee letters that could be issued there, we could have discussed it. But today supervision - and I am coming back to it - is just insurance and reinsurance. Why is that? The Directive does not provide for the issue of guarantee letters by insurance and reinsurance companies. So whatever commitment they wish to show to European law, this will get us out of hand. I therefore agree with the view that the provision should be withdrawn so that withdrawal can really be considered and not jeopardised, because the risks to the public interest will be multiple. On the one hand, the solvency of some smaller insurance companies may at some point also be shaken, and on the other hand, public works may not be carried out and even abused, because the insurance companies of course want to obtain an income, we also want competition in the direction, but take note of something. Competition with the banks? Insurance companies shall be mainly subsidiaries or banks participating in their capital. So we cannot achieve competition, but do not stick to it. I repeat, I think he should retire. What has concerned us and, beforehand, in the committee debate, I must say - and the issue of the people's markets, Mr Minister, on which a recent bill that the House has come and voted on to regulate rural trade, seemed to be difficult, incomprehensible. It is not crucial whether or not the deadline will be by the end of 2018 for the authorisation of rural trade. This is a deeper question, because we see that there is a failure to obtain tax and insurance information, which is laid down as a precondition for issuing licences. There should therefore be an additional regulation. And that's why? As you know, the Citizens' Ombudsman has come after a petition and has said that there is a serious possibility of unconstitutionality of the provision imposing insurance and tax information on the sellers of the people's markets as a condition of licensing, because it restricts economic freedom, which does not restrict to other activities. On the one hand, then, we have the Public Revenue Receipt Code that the state can pursue. On the other hand, we have the law imposing this restriction. And we heard something further that there is also a question of the municipalities, which, when there is a debt to the municipalities, ask for a so-called municipality, quasi-minority, information. We must help rural trade, because it also helps primary production. Let us not forget that the movement of many and good agricultural products is through the people's markets and not just the producers and the people. Receive a provision to disconnect insurance and tax information from licensing. It is easy to do this because you can also use the platform of the extrajudicial mechanism so that applications for debt arrangements can proceed so that producers and sellers in the public markets can be relieved and that public or insurance bodies do not lose revenue. As I am on this point, I would like to remind you of something else. The question we raise about the easy, simplified, direct conversion of limited companies into IKE, private capital funds, and a pathology of the Katrugalo Law, because all the partners in the EIA and with a single portion of the total number are obliged to be insured to the EKE, to pay the same contributions as the majority shareholder. You understand why these companies have been inactive, but they cannot or do not yet want to meet these obligations, and with the immediate conversion we are asking for, they will also be able to directly regulate their obligations through the extrajudicial mechanism platform, know what they owe to the past, but to alleviate and solve their problems for the future and lead to a solution now that is simplified and how to dismantle - the solution of limited companies. Why is the dismantling or decision-making process of members' shareholders simplified, but do you know how it will finally be simplified? They will decide on the solution of these companies, so that those who are obliged to make insurance contributions do not pay for the future. If you want to maintain them, then, give an additional argument to conversion to be maintained under the legal status, and everything that they contribute to the economy does not matter. But today the EIAs and personal work in a lot of people, if they are dismantled because of obligations, are also going to lose their jobs. We therefore think that, with these considerations and those comments, the draft law can be improved. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, I would also like to refer to that famous Paris International Chamber of Commerce. We heard them, gave them an extension for the antiquities. I think, however, that this article should also be withdrawn, Minister, in order to be subject to the fullest suffering for this reason. It states that the National Hellenic Committee makes arbitration. But I asked her representatives and they haven't done anything. The only thing that is limited is to propose the Greek referee, the Greek judge in Paris representing Greece. Let us also find a solution for this, because this 2% which you are of course reducing to prevent this 2% of the Chambers from being involved in the special Greek Chamber of Commerce is indeed a large number for the Chambers. I shall say the last thing I said in committee. You got lost again and kept an extreme cleansing in a verse of the draft law. Allow me to read this before I finish, Mr President. ‘The Board of Directors, elected by the general assembly, namely that the number of members and the way in which they are elected is regulated by the Statute...’, is a discrepancies in relation to the text of the law. Or change it, make it in elementary school too, because I'm afraid the "wrong" etc. is not immediately understood. And with these thoughts, I close my speech. Perhaps, Mr President, I will come back to a second. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty students and students and six educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of Argostoli and the Municipal School of Lower Third Lesvos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would also like to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Priminal Responsibility of Ministers", as in force, on 25-05-2018: Criminal proclamation concerning the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr Stavros Kontonis. The Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the World Health Organisation, acting through its Regional Office for Europe, amending the Agreement on Reception between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the World Health Organisation, acting through its Regional Office for Europe, establishing the Support Office for the Prevention and Control of Untransmitted Diseases in Athens, Greece". Now, as I said, I will give the floor for three minutes - he does not want me any more - to the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Constantine Fotakis. Then Mrs Papanatsiou will talk for another three minutes, because she's here and I don't want to keep her. The two Ministers will present their amendments so that the Members who follow will have a picture of both ministerial amendments. Here, Mr Fotakis, you have the floor to present your amendment from your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr Konstantinos Fotakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned legal correction, which reads as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 50]] I am referring to Amendment No 1586/32, which concerns the relocation of the Greek Maritime Research Centre from its facilities at the Greek Metropolitan Park with a view to speeding up and simplifying procedures. That is because there is now a strict programme for this relocation. By the end of June it must have been fulfilled. There are also special circumstances, since the nature of the facilities there, such as the research tanks for fish farming, which require specific specifications. The relevant contracts, for the studies and for the relocation of buildings themselves, will be signed by the Minister on a recommendation from the Board of Directors of EMPH and this amendment regulates the necessary details. Now, in relation to this amendment, I am tabling two legislative amendments. Paragraph 1 deletes the expression ‘public’ and withdraws paragraph 5 of the amendment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u32	What does paragraph 1 say, Minister? Let's see her for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, can we ask the Minister something?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u34	Wait a minute. Are you finished, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u35	I have come to an end, Mr President, simply to clarify something for my colleagues on paragraph 1. The legal correction is as follows: from paragraph 1 of this amendment, the words ‘by the public authorities’ are deleted. We do not need this phrase and it is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u36	Mrs Papanatsiou will now take the floor, and since Mr Toskas has come, we can close the ministers. I would ask them to stay in the Chamber for a while, so that if a colleague wishes to clarify, the ministers will be present.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u37	One question, Mr President, to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u38	You will, Mr. Athanasios, as soon as the ministers are finished. Mr Catherine Papanatziou, State Secretary for Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to Amendment No 1584 and special 30, the proposed provision provides for the possibility of repayment from the State budget of the unpaid general government liabilities to suppliers of electricity, which had become due up to 30-4-2018. To this end - on the one hand, the regularisation of their budgetary outstandings and the safeguarding of sound and sound financial management of their operation and, on the other hand, the general smoothing of the market - I would like to say that the amounts paid by the State budget for the repayment in question may, on a case-by-case basis, reduce the appropriations entered for transfer payments to the general government bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u40	Mr Nicholas Toskas has the floor to present a minor amendment, as he has said to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. This is precisely a technical regulation concerning the status of the Foundation for the Extremities of Greek Police. There are two special accounts at the Excellence Foundation, a special staff relief account and a special account for the orphans of police, fire extinguishers and civilian personnel. With the regime so far, with the previous payroll, bookings were by a percentage reduction in the wage, that is, 0.6% on the wages of Officer II and on the second special bill, bookings were 0.3%. Since Law 4472/2017 changed the method of calculation and now there are various categories depending on origin and taking into account various other factors, the rate of contributions has stabilised and it becomes 5,83 euros in the monthly salary for all for the special relief account, and 2,92 euros for the special orphans’ allowance account. It is - as I said at the outset - a technical issue and it aims to stabilise the amount of contributions so that they do not need to adjust to the changes in wage provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u42	So I start in turn. Mr Meikopoulou, would you like to ask the three Ministers about their amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u43	No, I think it was quite clear, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u44	Mr Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u45	I would like to ask Mr Fotakis about Amendment No 1586/32. I see that this is by way of derogation from the a.d. 715. For such a large amount - from what I have noted - is about EUR 2.5 million to be made directly and without a competition?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Fotakis has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u47	Only the lease is direct. That's what we're looking for. This is because it is urgent that this whole process of relocation should be carried out by 30 June. But we're only talking about renting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u48	And until when? What's that gonna take?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u49	The rental of the new building should take place by the end of June.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u50	No competition? That's what I'm saying. It's 2.5 million euros!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u51	It's set.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u52	The presidential decree provides for a competition. Will you do it without a contest?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u53	So what you need to answer, Mr Fotakis, is whether what Mr Athanasios says is true is that the rental to which you have been referred is without a competition or a competition provided for. To that question, answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u54	The rental will be made with offers and choices from the board of directors of the Hellenic Republic. It will simply be signed by the Minister to speed up the process, which must have expired until 30 June.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u55	It's typically not a competition. It's some form of competition. Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u56	Following the previous question to Mr Fotakis beyond the rental for which, of course, I am not in the hands of being present at the moment, I think that the n.R.715, can be applied in this case with a rough tender. However, what concerns me is the next paragraphs of the proposed amendment to the plot in the off-project Lithari area. You say that by decision of the Minister all the studies necessary for the relocation process are commissioned. How will these studies be commissioned? I want to hear it. Will they be awarded in accordance with the regular public procurement procedure, or will they also be derogated, and so will the question of expenditure without transparency be raised here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u57	The question is clear. Mr. Fotakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u58	These studies on the relocation to the Black Lithari will be conducted by a competitive process. The lease will be immediately, because the relocation must be made immediately, as I said by the end of the month.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I would also like a question for Mrs Papanatziou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u60	Here, Mr Carras, you have the floor, but please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u61	I am always brief and you know that, Mr President. Do we have a picture of the funds, the amounts due to electricity companies and, in particular, which body is due and to whom?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u62	Ms. Papanaceu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u63	Debts cannot be determined exactly. However, the available information shows that it is about 48 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u64	So we're moving on. Mr. Shahinides wants to ask you something?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u65	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Vardalis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u67	I'm covered, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Lazarides?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u69	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with Mrs. Papanatsiu then. Mrs Papanatsiou, first of all, we would like a list of the bodies that are required of the companies. Secondly, will these amounts be offset by possible debts of suppliers of electricity? Also, how many are these debts? Do you have any of this evidence in your hand? I would also like to ask Mr Fotakis a question. Mr Fotakis, the cost of EUR 2.5 million for the construction of the premises of the ELDEH will be done by means of a competitive procedure. Is that right? Did we get it right? Also, Mr. Fotakis, how long is the rental? The agreement, the lease, the choice of the leaser will be made directly, but it will be quite clear that the agreement, the leaser's choice, will be made directly. Have you done an investigation into the possibility of operating the HOPS at any real estate of the HOPS or even the superstition? It is one way of making use of real estate without having many losses on public revenues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u72	I give the floor to the Ministers in the order in which they were asked. Ms. Papanaceu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u73	What I can say at the moment is that the sums - and I said in my report - paid by the State budget may, on a case-by-case basis, reduce the appropriations entered for transfer payments to the general government bodies. Similarly, we will reduce the amount to be paid to the bodies of the general government by the general government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u74	Who are the agencies, we know? Do we have a list?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u75	We'll be able to get you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Fotakis has the floor for Mr. Amyras's questions, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u77	The lease will take place for five years. This is the only way to derogate from the lease law, which says up to three. There has been an investigation into the possibility of installing in one of the premises of the HICP. It must also be the building, because we are talking about experimental research facilities and therefore it is not just a matter of offices. The other thing I wanted to say is that this problem of the relocation of PPE from the Greek area has been over since 2011 and has to end once. That is why we are making this amendment so that it can end and end immediately so that the projects from the company that has taken over the exploitation can be carried out there.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Fotakis, will the rent be made from a private person? Is it private? Do we have his evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u79	Yes, right now, the PPE has found two or three, I think, individuals and will be making a crisp contest, as we have said. It's from a private person.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u80	And now we're actually moving on to the process. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Ioannis Sahinides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. I will start with a comment on the amendments supported by these ministers. With regard to Amendment No 1581 and specific No 27, sons or brothers of terrorist acts may be allowed to serve for a three-month term in the armed forces if they so wish. First, it moves in a positive direction and constitutes a minimum price sample to the persons concerned. However, if anyone makes a rough search on the Internet, they will see that terrorism, with what it relates to Greece, has more than seventy victims, but they are all left-wing terrorists. I consider hypocrisy, therefore, that applauders and supporters of terrorist trials should table an amendment concerning the relatives of the victims of terrorist attacks. It would be a good job for the state and the government, in addition to paying tribute to the victims and their relatives, to arrange for the arrest of terrorists. Only so would the true vindication come of the souls of innocent victims and their families. The amendment tabled by a minister who is a defender of soldiers and conscientious objections, of course, and we will not vote on it. Make no increase in the widows of the deceased and not cutbacks, as in some other way, to restore their relatives from terrorist acts. I come to Amendment No 1584, and special number 30, on the payment of outstanding debts by the general government. Here the proposed amendment stipulates that the appropriations of the Ministry of Finance are to be repaid as a matter of priority until 30-4-2018 public service debts to suppliers of electricity. This is an indication of the government's and sad image of the Greek public being that a state mechanism that owes everyone, inconsistent with everyone, has led to the destruction and the 'luketo' of thousands of natural or legal persons, because of the non-payment of debts, a state of battering, I would say, which acts just like a common fraudster, who may have to bear with everyone, to have naughty everyone, but at least it ensures that he has power in his home. The repayment of public debts overdue is a matter of the utmost seriousness which cannot be dealt with with with unnecessary last minute amendments. There should be a comprehensive and serious response to the issue, which can only have one solution: the immediate and full payment of all public debts to the market, professionals and the private sector. There the famous primary surpluses should go, instead of wasting them in election ruptures and in benefits to illegal immigrants. With regard to Amendment No 1586 and specific 32, on the regulation of matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, the proposed amendment regulates the process of relocation of the Institutes of the Hellenic Marine Research Centre from the area of Agios Kosmas in the region of Anavyssos. It should also be noted that the reason for the above relocation is the sale by TIED of the area of the former Airport of the Hellenic and coastal front of Agios Kosmas. The characteristic is that the Panhellenic Workers' Association at the PPEH and the Association of Investigators of PPEH, through their public complaint, characterise this transfer process as a relocation to nowhere, without a plan, without a study and - the main - without the appropriate space being found and they warn that this process will lead to the effective closure of vital activities of PPEH on an indefinite basis, with dramatic scientific and economic consequences for the Centre and its employees. Let's go to the amendment with a general number of 1588 and a special number of 33. Here is a modification and supplementation of provisions of Law 2622/1998 and Law 2168/1993 and the redefinition of the amount of the contribution of the police, fire and civil servants of the Greek Police and the Fire Corps, the Border Guards and the Special Guards to the reported special accounts set up by the Foundation for the Extended Hellenic Police. The Foundation, therefore, is a legal person governed by public law, public law and aims to support, support, support and financial support the staff of the Greek Police, the active and retired staff, and their families as part of the welfare and solidarity of the House, complementing the possibilities of the state's social benefits. Among other things, however, in the above mentioned institution, an account of the relief of orphaned children from the staff of the Greek Police and the Fire Corps is in place to provide financial assistance once a year to the single and minor orphans of the abovementioned staff. The proposed amendment sets out the amount of the contribution to the specific account concerned, in particular, a one-off amount each year, EUR 2,92 and EUR 5,83 respectively, for the staff of those services and for the shareholders of the Greek Police Personnel Relief Account. However, the content and wording of the amendment in question do not appear comparable in order to allow for a secure economic assessment of the proposed amendments and an accurate assessment of the effects of the proposed provisions on the financial soundness of that institution. It is obvious that the support of the specific institution of the Greek Police should be a primary obligation of the state. But the way this amendment is introduced does not allow us to draw any safe conclusions as to whether its effects will be positive or negative. However, with many reservations, we will vote'residents' in this amendment. I will make a brief comment in the articles too. Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 (OJ L 298, 26.11.2012, p. 1). Article 2 provides for the possibility of drawing up the company contract and with a standard statute, which fulfils specific conditions, except for the previously foreseen type of notarial document. It is right that the partners should be able to do so. It also provides for the acquisition of legal personality by the registration of GFCM and the existence of a single integrated publicity within GFCM. Article 3 deals with issues relating to the organisation and management of the company. In particular, reference is made to the way in which the meeting of the partners is convened, and now the exclusive responsibilities of the partners will also be the possibility of reviving the company. Finally, the incompatibilities of the managers and the revocation procedure are defined. In Article 4, we have issues of the financial nature of the company and in particular issues of the preparation, publication and control of the financial statements of the companies and of the distribution of profits. In addition, the possibility of the creation of additional reserves beyond normality is also foreseen. Article 5 provides that the company share of the deceased may be transferred to a third party designated by the company, provided that the heir, after obtaining the share of the deceased partner, does not wish to remain in the company. This provision moves in the right direction and resolves several issues which arise in the event of partner death and transfer of its share. Article 6 gives the parties greater freedom of movement and makes the operation and development of the company more flexible. In Article 7, it should be noted that the provision for a solution of the company due to the expiry of the specified period and the formalities for its extension are arrangements that make unnecessary stumblings and obstacles to the partners for the operation of the company, while this issue could be resolved by much simpler procedures. Article 8 raises questions about the establishment of foreign companies in Greece coming from either European Union countries or third countries. The general framework concerning the establishment of foreign companies and their activities within the Greek territory is quite relaxed and does not impose very serious conditions, conditions and restrictions on these foreign companies. The State is primarily required to protect and create favourable conditions for domestic Greek companies in order to be able to benefit from the rest. Therefore, the authorisation scheme of the branch of foreign companies would have to contain far more serious insurance margins and restrictions for these companies, with a view to giving impetus and an advantage to the respective domestic companies. Article 9 rightly stipulates that the courts for the award of the disputes in question shall be the courts of the company's seat. Article 10 regulates names and other forms of legal persons, such as the public limited liability company and private capital company, for reasons of uniformity to deal with the name issue. Article 11 provides that in the immediate future the provisions on EIA are to be applied in the municipal language. It's positive, too. By virtue of Article 12, any limited liability companies which have, in fact, defined in their statutes an indefinite period of time and do not have to amend it in time, resolve and put themselves in liquidation until 31 December 2021. The insistence of your Government on the issue of the mandatory fixed duration of the RES is unnecessarily unnecessarily high and is in practice going to cause more problems than it is supposed to solve. We shall vote against this article. Article 13 abolishes provisions which are inappropriate, unofficial or contradictory with newer existing ones. It's positive, too. Let's go to Chapter II and to Article 14, which deals with the licenses of professional sellers and popular markets. First of all, the provision in question is positive because it allows for out-of-season trade in persons who have received invalidity pensions and at the same time also provides for the possibility of temporary replacement. It shall also simplify the relevant procedures and resolve matters of competence between the competent bodies and bodies. However, there is also no regulation in this piece of legislation which could give a solution, for example, to the most acute problem of the blockade carried out unnecessarily by foreign sellers, usually illegal immigrants, and around the people's markets. Article 15 provides that insurance companies may also issue guarantee letters in application of a Memorandum of Understanding. That is what we have also said to the committee, Minister, that it needs special attention, because there is nowhere to say what the insurance systems and the conditions on which insurance companies can grant the guarantee are. There is no mention of the way in which insurance companies are found to be solved and of ensuring that they are in a position to respond to this sector. In view of the inadequacy of existing state control mechanisms, our concern is growing, because there is a risk that bad situations might arise, with unfavourable consequences for the market. Finally, Article 16 has been a legislative improvement. Paragraph 2 of Article 16 was deleted, which limited the contributions to two. At the same time, the legally binding participation of the EUESC Chambers is maintained, which is why the representatives of the chambers expressed their opposition, calling for the participation or not to be subject to the discretion of each body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the Greek Parliament, twelve students and a companion from IEK AKMH. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Athanasios Vardalis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, I would like to raise a point of order. Would you give me the floor later?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u84	As soon as Mr. Vardalis comes down from Step. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. From the development of the whole debate, both in committee and up to now in plenary, we believe that the government's aim was clear. With this legislative intervention it wants to facilitate the activities of limited companies. This is, however, an intervention which is part of the most comprehensive effort to reform and modernise all commercial law, with the aim of facilitating the action of companies, capital as a whole, supporting its profitability, removing any obstacles, by reducing operating costs and simplifying the procedures for establishing and re-establishing these companies. As the Minister has said, appropriate legislative initiatives will be followed, both for anonymous companies, for GEMH and for chambers. Why are you doing all this? But because you want by strengthening all the forms of companies to strengthen their profitability and so to ensure - try, anyway - to stabilise this precarious capitalist development, anemic, say it what you want. This aim of the government is within the framework of the "development plan" for the future, a project which, in addition to the golden dust of protection of work and fair growth, at the heart of its attention has sustainable profitability, with rain for business groups. This is not just about a painful compromise because all this is part of the third memorandum and proposals from the OECD, but about a conscious effort by the government to ensure the unfettered profitability of business groups. And we are not at all surprised by the agreement on the substance of the drafting of the bill by all the other parties in the opposition, of course not by their efforts and their contribution to improving it, even by pressing for more incentives, both tax and insurance. After all, this is not an agreement between the Government and the other urban parties alone in this bill, but it expresses your deepest agreement that the anti-popular attack will continue to be decisively pursued in order to shield the competitiveness of business groups. SYRIZA on the one hand and the New Democracy and the Change Movement on the other, on the other, want to prove that they, each one of its side, can best handle these issues, are recognised as the genuine party that will guarantee investment and healthy capitalist development. Despite any administrative differences they have, the only evidence is that they are the two sides of the same currency. However, the plan of the SYRIZA Government, the New Democracy and the Change Movement, as well as the other urban parties for the next day, the objective of attracting new profitable investments, the "forming" of the best, the right, friendly investment environment will bring new bars of anti-grass restructuring, new reversals of insurance, the strengthening of taxation, even more flexibility in the labour market, further privatisations, even trade liberties. Your plan to attract investment will have exactly this anti-grassroots policy: on the one hand, strengthening business groups and on the other hand hitting labour rights. How does all this relate to the bill that we are discussing and which concerns companies with limited liability? What is the practical aim of the government? With the changes that you are proposing to date, you are simplifying the procedure for setting up a limited company or for the whole process to become easier, as well as introducing the possibility of rescuing it and the question of rescuing in particular at this time is important to the objectives you have set. You believe that a number of them could be reconstituted and that is why you are introducing the possibility of rescuing them, of course, to those who can stand up to competition. With such tools you try to achieve the following objectives: First you reduce the amount of equity. They will now be able to establish themselves with the use of a model statute and not exclusively with a notarial document, as was the case until now, while the EIA will only acquire legal personality by registering it in the General Commercial Register. The so-called dual publicity is abolished, both in the Official Journal of the Government and in the EIA Register. Therefore, with all these measures you reduce the company's costs for all these procedures. At the same time, the meeting of the EIA partners may decide to revive the company. You reset the majority in this case of the partners in an EIA, abolish the administrative approval for the establishment in Greece of a branch of a limited liability company from a European Union country. For all these reasons, both the Greek Industrial Association and the Association of Anonymous Companies and the RES welcome the Government's initiative as a practical demonstration of the will to create the right legal bases and conditions to attract new flexible entrepreneurial schemes necessary for the relaunch of the economy. That's what BSE says. All this, of course, does not touch on small and medium-sized and self-employed, as you have upheld in the debate so far. You are once again putting in front of the workers, to justify the support you give to the business groups. You who have cut wages and pensions, which have kept all the laws of the previous governments and added young people, are very much invoked by the protection of workers. Of course, when we talk about companies with limited liability, we are generally not talking about large monopolies and large business groups, but about self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises. However, even if it were so - which is not - by 'help', as you say, small and medium-sized enterprises and the overall policy of the structural reforms you are following and which are the directions of the European Union and the OECD, by strengthening competitiveness and, more generally, the pro-monopoly orientation of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, the only prospect that you look forward to small and medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed is the package. The next day of a SYRIZA government will find them confronted with exactly the same dead ends that they have today, that is to say, resurrects, debts, blackmails, towels of insurance rights. The relaunch of the economy, capitalist growth will take place in terms of suffocating monopolies and will not improve the situation of the majority of SMEs and self-employed. Ladies and gentlemen, all the things that are being promoted by this bill New Democracy has been ready to implement even since 2014, but, apparently, it has not been possible. The then Minister for Administrative Reform and Electronic Governance, and today President of the New Democracy, Mitsotakis, in his answer to a question in the House, confirms that all this is firstly the OECD's proposals to alleviate administrative burdens in enterprises, even informing the House that he is preparing to put forward a bill to vote in order to address all these issues. In fact, at that time, the same Ministry considered that this relief, to which it refers, amounted to EUR 41,83 million each year. We are talking about such amounts that nowadays may be even greater. We see here - and this is not the only case, and in our view it will not be the last - how it turns out that you are continuing in the same direction as the previous ones, those who call 'old civilians', despite the fact that you are trying to convince the people that you are expressing two different worlds. The world you are all defending, SYRIZA, New Democracy, Change Movement and the other parties on the Euromono street is not the world of the people, but it is the world of capital and its profitability. You do everything you can to help him. This, of course, does not prevent you from lifting even the callippi lines to hide exactly this class anti-grass policy, but also to identify you in the big issues concerning its capital and its profitability. But confrontation, conflict and collapse of this world of capital are a prerequisite for popular prosperity. And here the people deserve to testify to every sacrifice in this direction. This action of capital is the real opponent. This must be the target of the working class and the folk layers. Now, as far as the second part of the draft law on other provisions is concerned, I should first like to refer to Article 14 on rural trade. With most of the changes made to this article, we have no objection. After all, they are also the demands of unions of professional folk shoppers. At committee meetings, in particular for paragraphs 12 and 13, which provide for the extension to the process of extending the licenses of professional popular and land-based sales agents, we have raised the issue of dealing with insurance and tax information. And then, and today you said you would deal with it in the next period. The problem, in our view, needs to be tackled now. So many extensions have been made. That is why we in this House, despite the fact that we agree to an extension in any case, will vote 'at present'. As far as the entire bill is concerned, it is clear that we will vote against it at first. I am closing down with a number of questions on the amendments. First of all, I would like to say about the relocation of PPE. You have been caught in such prestige to deliver the Greek, to clean up here the obstacles to progress on investment projects, which you do not account for anything. Let me remind you that we were opposed to this transfer, we voted against it, and we stood side by side - not to say first - in the struggles of the people against the promotion of this investment. You don't count anything in the face of such interests. You bring an amendment to ensure that there is no minimum guarantee of the continuation of the infrastructures of the PPE Group and you are forced to move, since, apart from the possibility of speeding up the procedures, it is essentially not ensured that their operation will continue immediately and unreservedly in terms of both the scientific and the research work carried out in the relocation infrastructures and the working conditions of the employees of the PPE Group who manage them. We have good reasons to consider it extremely doubtful that the facilities will be ready and complete, covering all the necessary conditions on time. On the other hand, it's challenging. Suddenly, you can allocate EUR 2.5 million to substantially serve investment projects, when there are still unpaid workers in research centres, who have even been forced to work unpaid, waiting for the new programmes in the past few months. We shall vote against this amendment. Finally, with regard to the amendment enabling military benefits to be extended, we are generally not opposed to the introduction of benefits to family members of soldiers who have lost their lives during their term of office. Our interest, however, is lasting both for the practical conditions of life and safety for soldiers and for the legislative framework that regulates them. In proposals that we have tabled in this direction in the past, you say that you consider them to be unrealistic because of their cost of implementing them. You have said so to the committee, saying that the budget is narrow because of the capitalist economic crisis in recent years, when it is known that your government is spending several billion on naval spending. With regard to the relief provisions in the event of losses due to terrorism, we have raised an issue you did not say in your committee. For us, for our party, the concept of 'terrorism' is a political term with very specific class content. You, however, are implementing NATO's decision to engage the Armed Forces within their own countries in dealing with terrorist threat if conditions force it. Already we have exercises - testing for the implementation of existing business plans in the 71st Kilkis Brigade and very recently in 113 Battle Wings in Thessaloniki for the "Counterfeiting of multitude". The JRC considers such exercises to be unacceptable in the context of strengthening the repression of the people with the participation of the Armed Forces and the involvement of the Euro-Nath Plans. I mentioned at the outset that we are not opposed to the introduction of benefits for family members of soldiers who have lost their lives. We shall vote 'the present' in this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u86	Mr Loverdo, would you like the floor for one, two minutes on a point of order, as you said before?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u87	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u88	You have the floor. I don't give you time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. I now take the floor because, as I see in the Chamber, there is no case for a colleague who could misunderstand my words and be offended. Mr President, I am not a composter. Outside the Chamber, everyone is what it is, according to the rights it has and exercises. However, there is an article in the Rules of Procedure, Article 75(3), which requires the Member coming to the Chamber to have a look, which is consistent with his work and role. The obvious purpose of this provision is to exist from a point of view - I repeat, from a point of view - that appearance, which does not create any problems outside the Chamber, whether it is a matter of much outside the Chamber, that is to say, abroad, for Greeks and Greeks. That is why I am making this observation. I've been wanting to do it for years. But today, because of one or two examples, I think that the glass - as far as I am concerned - is abundant and I am speaking. It is, of course, a question of interpretation in a provision that we keep in the Rules of Procedure. It's been years and we haven't changed it. It is a question of interpreting what this appearance is, which responds to the parliamentary work, and here too much can be said. However, with negative thoughts, in other words with negative arguments, we can only disagree that the surroundings of a plaque or the surroundings of a human being who is ready to swim or work out are not, at least in the sense of the Rules of Procedure. I would ask you, Mr President, to resolve this at some point. And it is many times difficult - I understand it - because it can be blamed for Communism, but it is necessary for us to be able to come to an agreement. We've been through enough over the last few years. At least in the simplest, like that, to be informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. As President-in-Office, I give you two formal answers. The first is the one you hinted on. Unfortunately, Article 75(3) is extremely unclear and, in my opinion, where it says 'to contribute individually to the well-founded appearance of the House'. The second is - I make a proposal to you - one of your representatives at the Conference of Presidents to raise the matter. It is not a question of discussing this in plenary. We can discuss this there, and perhaps it should be in the context of changes to the Rules of Procedure. As a person, as a mere congressman, I may be approaching your own views. Mr Lazarides, special speaker of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a draft law which facilitates the establishment and operation of limited liability companies, the first of a series of legislations aimed at reforming the country's commercial law as a whole. Simplification of the procedures for the establishment and operation of these enterprises is the main objective and that is because reducing bureaucracy, in addition to improving the competitiveness of our country, is also a prerequisite for the completion of the evaluation. The EIA bill brings a series of small and large changes, involving, among other things, the name, publicity, the meeting of partners, managers and the establishment of a foreign branch in Greece. It is coming to modernise the institutional framework established for the first time by Law 3190/1955. It modifies outdated provisions and solves chronic problems identified in the application of corporate law. This is an introduction of a grid of regulations which are trying to deal with the rightly malfunctioning institutional framework in the EIAs, whereas it is commonly accepted that issues relating to financing, the reduction of bureaucratic costs, the simplification of the creation and operation of EIAs are dealt with successfully. In particular, the new regulations, which provide flexibility to the name of the EIAs, facilitate and strengthen their activities both internally and internationally, while the first stage in the creation of an EIA as a rule has been made by means of a notary document. In accordance with the new provision, it can also be done using the standard statute provided for in Law 4441/2016 as a founding act, if and if this is chosen by the founding partners, which clearly facilitates the procedures for setting up the EIAs and harmonises their content with the best European standards, something absolutely necessary. We repeat that it is coming to modernise the institutional framework, which was first defined by Law 3190/1955. This law has been amended many times, mainly because of the harmonisation of Community directives in Greek law within the framework of the single regulation of companies within the European Union. Simplifying the process of setting up companies, simplifying procedures for the licensing of management companies and simplifying the bankruptcy procedure for small and medium-sized enterprises for years, is one of the things that has been needed for growth in our country, which must not be disrupted, but must be met by objective conditions, such as clear public-private limits, continuity and consistency of the state, protection of foreign investments, less bureaucracy, a friendly environment for private enterprises, sound public finances, access to a healthy banking system and the capital market. I have left lastly the most important one, which is the stable tax environment and the competitive ones with the rest of Europe, corporate tax rates. Ladies and gentlemen, this direction, namely to strengthen the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises, is necessary as it will function proliferationally for the entire domestic economy. Creating new companies means new jobs, increasing State tax revenues and conditions for creating wealth for the public and private economy. With the changes that are being promoted, it is easy to install a foreign RES branch in Greece, it is easier to recommend, while the possibility of rescuing an EIA is introduced, based on the changes envisaged. We see, in other words, the efforts we have mentioned, the reduction of bureaucracy and a simpler process, while, among other things, the amount of equity is reduced and it is stipulated that the nominal value of the company's shares cannot be less than one euro, than 30 euros currently. In other words, the so-called 'double publicity' - EU register and the Official Journal of the Government - which is currently in existence and is replaced by GFCM's single and integrated publicity is being abolished. Provisions which regulate more formal issues are also being introduced, but which are of great importance to the operation of the companies concerned. However, all the provisions are important and we are looking forward to an immediate improvement in the investment climate. For example, the EIA is now allowed to have their name in Latin characters, while the codification of Law 3190/1955 and its performance in municipality, which is a chronic demand for both the market and the services and lawyers and accountants involved in company law, is envisaged. In addition, the draft law regulates job losses for the professional seller in popular, static and global trade, and also provides for the extension until 15 January 2019 of the authorisations of professional public market vendors, on-site and on-site trade for those who expired on 31 March 2018. Here, you will allow me to make a stand, because it is important. I also know your sensitivity, Minister. We talked about it. I also referred to the committee when we discussed this issue on the people's markets. In fact, I would like to point out your sensitivity, because we have discussed this matter in private. The question of popular markets is a case, which has a social dimension, in principle, with regard to sellers or producers and, in general, to those involved in the public markets, because they really find a way of exercising that profession through the public markets, people who would not otherwise have the way of exercising this professional activity and marketing in this regard. On the other hand, however, there is also the social dimension, as far as the world is concerned, which visits the people's markets and those citizens - to say it more simply - who are fanatical of the people's markets. One of them, Minister, I'm not hiding you that I am. I often visit popular markets. Normally, we say it is the sweet habit of every citizen once a week, because, you know, in everyone's neighborhood or in everyone's area once a week has a folk. I have established it and go twice a week, because I am in the middle of two people's markets, and I really enjoy this contact with producers, with traders. It is important for all citizens and all of us. I would say this to those colleagues who do not have this habit, that it is good to have it, because we have direct communication and contact with either the producers or the traders, and we learn their problems and what concerns them. I would like, Minister, now to come to the bill. The traders in popular markets and producers in paragraph 12 to Article 14 in the point that states ‘Those professional retailers may consider it by 15 January 2019, in accordance with the provisions of Article 22 of this Regulation’, to add: ‘Until then authorisations shall be kept in force. Where authorisations are not considered within that period, they shall be definitively and automatically revoked.’; In other words, we want to add the phrase: 'until then licences are maintained in force'. That's what I want you to see, until we get to the bill vote. Now, with regard to what they have to produce, when they do renewables, I am referring to insurance and tax information, Minister, we have discussed it. I have informed you that there is a letter, a recommendation from the Citizens' Counselor, where he makes a reference - and it is indeed comprehensive and well-informed with several elements and interests that the recommendation of the Citizens' Counselor - says that this necessity for the people's markets to be brought forward or, in any case, the relevant producers or producers of insurance, tax information, goes beyond what we say, the limits of the Constitution. So it can be termed an anti-constitutional. Here it makes a reference to the Citizens' Prosecutor and says: "According to Law 4497/2017, attestation of the applicant's insurer or beneficiary's legal information and tax information." It says here, 'and also with this law, there is the law, which takes care of - 'to give an opportunity to a significant part of the population, with the emphasis of the special groups, to become economically active through outdoor commercial activities'. In other words, this point now, where we are trying to incorporate certain specific groups and to give - what we have said earlier - the possibility of some people acting professionally, by imposing these measures, which we do not impose on other professional groups - that is, I am talking about insurance and tax information - there is a risk that we will prevent these people from acting professionally. In other words, with these restrictive measures, we are blocking or, if you like, we are canceling this point. That is why I would ask you, Minister, because in the debate we have had, you have pointed out that you will see this and you will find a solution, you will make a reference to it as well. In fact, here, the Citizens' Counsel makes a reference to the last paragraph - it is important to read it out, Mr President - and it says: 'I should like to point out that in the past decade, the legislator, under the pressure of the budgetary crisis, has taken steps aimed at strengthening public revenues, in a way which sometimes involves a breach of fundamental rights'. I am now closing this report to the people's markets. Also, before I go any further, Minister, in Article 15, see whether the public interest is guaranteed and whether the public interest is compromised or is at risk, which should not be compromised. I would also like to pay attention to that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall continue my position, and I shall be done in a moment, Mr President. Finally, under another provision, the assistance of the Chambers of Commerce, Crafts and Crafts of Law 4497/2017 to the National Committee of the International Chamber of Commerce is reduced to 2% of their regular revenue. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a positive legislative intervention, as it facilitates business activity, supports the market and tries to stimulate public finances. The provisions ensure that the creation of a limited liability company is made easier. Simplifying the process of setting up companies, simplifying procedures for the licensing of management companies and simplifying the bankruptcy procedure for small and medium-sized enterprises are essential for growth in our country, development that must not be disturbed, but must be achieved by objective conditions, with clear public and private sector limits, protection of foreign investments, less bureaucracy, sound public finances, access to a healthy banking system and the capital market. Reducing bureaucracy will not only improve our country's competitiveness, but it is also a prerequisite for the completion of the evaluation. And we hope that it will mean the creation of new companies, new jobs and, above all, the further development and optimism of citizens and investors. For the reasons we mentioned, the Independent Greeks support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too. There's gonna be a little change. I shall give the floor to Mr Georgiadis, who will shortly have to go up to the Chair and then close down with Mr Amyras. Mr Georgiadis, a special speaker from the Centron Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, too, Mr. Amyras for understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law must be said to be indeed, an attempt to update the legislative framework for companies with limited liability and simplification of procedures and their functioning. However, we must also point out that it is a long time ago, because for three and a half years this procedure should have been completed, but we should also say that the government is presenting it to us as its own initiative, which is not. It is an obligation for lenders to proceed with this change, since these companies have been active in a decade under these conditions with serious problems and even sustainability. And they've been present all this time and experience these forms of company. In fact, according to data reported at committee meetings, the number of new recommendations for EIAs in recent years has been downwards. A total of five thousand two hundred fifty-five are the recommendations from 2012 to 2017, of which only two hundred ninety-four were made in the last year. On the contrary, the deletions are seven thousand forty-nine, with the majority of them being in 2015 and 2016. This is a clear indication that the EIA is not a form of attractive to entrepreneurs. We shall now go specifically on the articles of the draft law. Many of these, as we have said in committee, will support them, for example Articles 1 and 2. In Article 1 it is good that, in the wording of the name, there is now the possibility of using Latin characters now. It's not something that finds us disagreements. Clearly, and we agree with that. Article 2 shall reduce the management costs when setting up the company by using the so-called Law 4441/2016 and the Standard Statute. And the same happens when it comes to finding a solution. We also agree with this article. We now go to Article 3, where the relevant provisions are updated with the managers and the relationship with their company and partners. On the question of the assembly of partners, it is good that the possibility of a teleconferencing participation is provided. That's a good thing. We have said so in committee too. But what concerns us in this particular article - and that is why we are going to say'residents' - is that under paragraph 5, the requirement of a serious reason is essential for the resignation of the manager. That is what I think is ruining the picture of the article in question on the whole. Let us go to Article 4, where the provisions on annual financial statements are codified, which is now being complied with in accordance with international standards. We agree with that. In Article 5, we are not really convinced of providing excessive convenience for a partner's exit from the company with a simple statement, as mentioned, to the manager. On the one hand, it is a proper measure to simplify procedures, but, of course, the fact that it is not sufficiently clarified is something which, in terms of shares and what is being done with them, is a shortage. In any case, it is also a little oxymomile on the one hand that, in order to allow the administrator to resign, it needs a very serious reason, as provided for in Article 3, and on the other, to leave with a simple statement to the administrator. We think there's a gap here, Minister. Take a look at it, too. That is why in Article 5 we will say 'the present'. For Articles 6, 7 and 8, we are in agreement and will be voting in favour. It concerns the reduction of the required percentages of a double majority, where, now, greater flexibility will be provided for decision-making, such as the amendment of a corporate contract, the reduction of capital, etc. I refer to Article 6. Article 7 clarifies issues relating to the winding-up and winding-up procedures of the company. This simplifys the current situation. It is also a good thing. Article 8 facilitates the establishment of a branch of a foreign company in Greece. So we agree with these articles too. The same is true of Articles 9 and 10 concerning procedural provisions and in general some positive provisions. So we agree. Also, with Article 11, which is transitional, for the codification of EIA law in municipal language, we are very clear. But let's go to Article 12. The least we could call is that the provision of an automatic mass solution for 31 December 2021 for all the companies that, in their statutes today, appear to have a vague duration, since they have not until then managed to amend them and specificity of the duration. In addition to the infinite problems which may arise, Mr Minister, and the excessive disturbance in the market, as mentioned in the report by the Scientific Office of Parliament, there is nowhere to be any serious reason, a reason of public interest, to justify the imposition of such a measure, and that is why we shall vote against Rule 12. In Article 13 we rely on the words in the explanatory statement, that the provisions which have been repealed are, in fact, inappropriate or inappropriate or contradictory in general with some younger ones, so we shall say'residents' in Article 13. As far as Chapter II and Article 14 is concerned, we have no objection to the extension of eight months of the authorisations granted under paragraph 12 nor of course to regulate the activities of disabled persons. So we agree with Article 14. Now, with regard to Article 15 and the authorisation granted to insurance companies to issue guarantee letters, we are expressing, not just serious reservations, but we are totally opposed. This is because, as with the banks, the insurance company's possible coverage of any form of direct financial obligation of the order vis-à-vis the beneficiary is considered to be a very high risk. It is therefore very likely that the insurance undertaking should meet the capital requirement for solvency, of course, depending on the degree of risk it assumes, in accordance with the European Union and Bank of Greece directives. It is clear, at least to us as the Central Association, that intervention is a little rough on this point and we think that you should have consulted the Bank of Greece first. Of course, Minister, we understand that especially after the "NOVARTIS" scandal, it is a bit difficult to contact the Governor of the Bank of Greece and ask him for some advice. Nevertheless, we consider this to be very serious and all these disputes are to be sidelined and you should also consult the Bank of Greece on this issue. So we're going to vote against this article. Let's go to Article 16 on the National Chamber of Commerce, which we agree with, although there has never been any formal consultation on the relevant provisions, nor has anyone been asked, as the Central Chambers Union said. For this reason alone, we will say'residences' in Article 16. We are now moving on with the amendments, namely Article 17, which has been incorporated, and Amendment No 1581/27 by the Ministry of National Defence, on the possibility of reducing the military service of sons and brothers from victims of terrorist energy, who are serving in the Armed Forces and Security Body, and we have to say: Although we had already agreed in committee and said that we were in agreement, since the measure is sounded to be social law, but following a little and reading the concerns expressed in its report by the Scientific Service of Parliament, that is to say the proposed 'expansion of the benefit to all sons and brothers, etc.', on the one hand, it is not obvious that it is in line with the general principle of equality, on the other hand, on the basis of Article 4(1) of the Constitution, and on the other hand with the principle of military equality, on the other hand, on the basis of Article 4(6) of the Constitution, it is forcing us, as a Union of Centres, not to fully support it, as we did in committee. For we, Minister, have the principle of not taking part in the adoption of provisions which include, even if not a trace of unconstitutionality. In addition, we have complete confidence in both the way the bills are processed scientifically and the members of this committee. We respect their opinion and we cannot ignore it. That is why we are going to say 'no' in this amendment. Although she may have a social mark, because of her possible unconstitutional specificity, we are necessarily going to the "parents". As for Article 18, with the inclusion of Amendment No 1583/29, we will also vote'residents' here in the adjournment of the International Chamber of Deputies elections. Also in Article 19, which is the entry into force. Let's go to Amendment No 1584/30, namely the possibility of repayment from the State budget of late debts due by the general government, suppliers of electricity. We shall vote against this amendment. And the reason why we will do that is because, first of all, it is an unrelated amendment. Secondly, it is not social in nature. Third, any provision shall be made by way of derogation. Finally, the explanatory statement does not provide any justification for its necessity or ultimately for who serves at the end of the day. In addition to this, the second subparagraph of paragraph 1 of the Amendment states that: ‘The amounts to be paid by the State budget for the payment in question may reduce, on a case-by-case basis, the appropriations entered for transfers by the general government bodies’. We are going to go to the report by the General Accounting Office of the State which, while talking about possible expenditure on government budgets, is negatively unequivocal. In other words, ‘the corresponding amounts will not be used for this purpose from the appropriations entered for transfer payments to the abovementioned entities’. It is not clear to us, Minister, and perhaps you should see exactly what is happening, because the two wordings between them have some contradiction. For this reason, we cannot support it, how much more so when there will be an additional burden on the Greek people by EUR 48 million. So we will vote against this amendment. In Amendment No 1586/32, on the relocation of the Institutes of the Hellenic Marine Research Centre from the scope of the so-called "Metropolitan Pole of Greek-Athens Kosmas" to new facilities, which are prepared in Anavyssos, we will take a neutral stand and say "Paris". We will say 'at present' because, yes, we have an unlimited appreciation of the work done and carried out by these institutes - and it was known that these bodies were going to go ahead - but there are also some negative factors, such as the fact that the amendment was tabled by an unrelated Ministry and I am referring to the Ministry of Education and not even a co-responsible to the draft law in question. It comes suddenly, also making a reference to urgent relocation, when it is known that it should have been carried out for a year and a half already. There is also a charge on the state budget of EUR 2.5 million for the costs of studies, construction, material supply, etc. And there's an additional rent of 20 thousand euros a month, maybe forever. We are talking about paying rents, despite the fact that this building will be erected on a plot of ERCE. So we will say'residents' in this amendment, because yes, we want the project to go ahead, but we do not agree 100% with the way it is done. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that many of the provisions that are being amended, contradictory and have already been legally and entrepreneurially overcome, thereby giving this bill some sort of necessity. It is also true that some proposed changes will help, not only to reduce bureaucratic processes and facilitate trade, but perhaps also to save some of the EIA. As the Central Association, we are generally in favour of maintaining an environment as business-friendly as possible, since it is perhaps the most important component for the normal development of the Greek economy and we hope that the provisions that will be voted on will structurally strengthen the whole system and form a solid and substantial framework of incentives. We are therefore very clear and in favour of giving a second, in a way, an opportunity to all these small businesses and because we do not want this situation to continue, where the EIAs have almost been forgotten, as we have said in committees, in principle we agree with this draft law. We will be saying'residents' on the whole and on the articles, as I have analysed them above, and on the grounds which I have substantiated. Some last-minute legislative improvements will also be made by our Parliamentary representative, Mr Saridis. Thank you very much Mr. Amyras once again. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u94	We close the cycle of special speakers with Mr. Georgios Amyras, a special speaker from Potami. I would like to inform you that five colleagues are registered, Mr Papaleou, Mr Kegeroglou, Mrs Papakostas, Mrs Megalo-Economist and Mrs Antoniou. The ministers may, if they want, take the floor as soon as Mr Amyras finishes, or they may hear the five colleagues first and then take the floor and the parliamentary representatives shall follow. They're in their own decision, Mr. Drasakis and Mr. Pitsirla, when they want to talk. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. I will speak from my position, because I will be brief. I shall begin with the amendments to tell you the position of the river, which is, of course, common to the Democratic Alliance, the Change Movement. So with regard to Amendment No 1581/27 on the extension of the military benefit, we are positive. Amendment No 1583/29 concerns the first elections to be held for the appointment of a new board of directors of the National Hellenic Committee of the International Chamber of Commerce. Here I would like to ask, Mr Minister, what is the assessment of the work of this committee to date? How it has contributed to commercial and investment policy and, above all, to issues - I would say - the fight against corruption, banking practices, the digital economy, the environment and energy and competition policies. I would remind you that the annual cost is EUR 100,000, so I imagine they have caught a place or caught a place for this money and there will be a wealth of work, at least corresponding to this financial support. That is why I will tell you about the amendment, after hearing your answers to it. Now, with regard to Amendment No 1588/34, we are positive about redefining the amount of the contribution of police, fire and civilian personnel. It is an amendment, I would say, technically more. I come to the amendment to the PPE. I put some questions myself earlier to the Minister present, Mr. Fotakis. The truth is that I have a doubt about this: Mr Fotakis told us that the EUR 2.5 million to be spent, of course, through studies and so on. For the creation of suitable areas, a necessary amount is needed. When I asked why we are not looking for a building from the TIAD, he said, 'because the buildings are not suitable and should be properly formed'. But the same will happen with the present case. EUR 2.5 million is not a trivial amount. In fact, it's going to be the space that's going to be built in the first place. It's going to be built in the first place, I'd say. So, in this amendment, I am very sceptical if I do not hear additional information from the Minister. Now, I come to Mrs Papanatsiou's amendment, No 1584/30, on the repayment of the outstanding debts of general government. I live in a part of the amendment which says 'the amounts paid may be reduced...'. We say to leave the "may" and be directly offset, that is to say, it is not at the discretion of anyone, but to be one-way to set off, I mean the debts of the energy companies to the Greek State and vice versa. I now leave the amendments and come to the draft law very quickly. We've discussed this exhaustively. I will not repeat the same, dear Minister. I will only say this: it is important to see how we are going to help companies, whether they are RES or not, in relation to bureaucracy. The public is a monster, it's a Lernay Hydra of bureaucracy. It tramples the private economy, entrepreneurship, innovation, the effort of Greek entrepreneurs, which I recall in the middle of capital controls strive to find a way of financing, to find a way to become more competitive, in an environment that is competitive and extremely difficult. I would therefore say that you will need to think a little bit about the re-establishment of the state that had been so much heard over the past decades, but unfortunately it did not happen. Here I come to say this: I had proposed that e-government should also be extended to businesses. I told you to operate on the website of GEMI, the Ministry of Development, also the Ministry of Development, an implementation with a profile of each company in terms of EIA - and not only - but there is a record, online, and if at any time and at any time - of course, new evidence that results in the renewal of the information - on the size of the company's capital, the financial statements, for example, whether it is tax information or not a company. We are talking here about rural trade. It will not be possible for sellers in the public and outdoor markets to continue to pursue their profession if they do not have tax and insurance information. I would say, therefore, that after we ask the seller of the people's market and the countryside, we must do the same with the EIA at least at the level of information. We need to see whether or not there is any judicial decision at their expense and there is a link between this information I am saying - an application is, it is nothing, it is an easy e-service - with the ministries of finance, economics, social security and justice, so that we can have reliable data and monitoring of the indicators of the economy and growth in real time in the field. The draft law has positive provisions. The fact that an EIA can be set up and using a model statute seems to me to be positive, rather than the notary document that was in place. It is positive that the so-called ‘double publicity’ is abolished and thus harmonises the status of EIAs with the provisions of Law 3419/2005. I have also said about Article 4, which is similar to what I mentioned earlier with e-government, that the issues of financial statements and the distribution of corporate profits could be updated in a framework for monitoring and publishing these financial statements. By e-government could solve many's hands, have greater transparency and credibility in trade and better supervision of economic activity. For Article 5, there is a slight reservation about the free exit of the partner. It is the amendment of Chapter IV of Law 3190 and refers to elements of the transfer of shares and transfers of shares in the event of a withdrawal of partners. We believe that businessmen should be allowed to regulate their internal partnerships on a private initiative, but of course also responsible ones. I omit the first part, because we agree on most of it. I'm coming to Chapter II. Once again, I will say that when the SYRIZA Government is legislating, it finds it in front of it. Law 4497 was passed at the end of 2017 - Mr. Carras, wasn't it? - and it has thirteen changes. We see this in other legislation. They are voted on two months later and three months later, they become a squirrel. There are amendments coming, other bills that are independent of the previous one that wants to correct and change. And when we speak to the committees and the plenary, we note that there are various issues that the government needs to take care of, the assent ministers, and so on, are not listening to anything. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] So today is a typical case of the sloppy legislature and the problems it raises, because while Law 4497 was supposed to resolve the issues of rural trade, public markets and stable trade, what are we doing now? We are giving another extension to continue the same regime that the previous law is supposed to change. I would also like to ask you: so many lost working hours here are the Members of Parliament, the committees, the officials of this Parliament, that is, the dog that is chasing its tail. The sloppy legacy is a sign tabled by this government. For Article 15, in the case of the granting of guarantee letters by insurance companies, we are very careful about this because we know that insurance companies, not all of course, but in the past, did not work properly. They were almost some of them pyramids. They were planes. I would like to raise the question that I have asked you at committee meetings: how will the audit be carried out and how are these reliable insurance undertakings that can give the guarantee letter? Do you have a picture? Apparently, you'll have to bring in Article 15. Ladies and gentlemen, I told you about the International Chamber. I expect some answers to Article 16. In a general assessment, I would say that the draft law introduces positive self-evident amendments with a view to imaging the reality of companies. Only the provisions of Articles 14 et seq., which I mentioned just now, are problematic for the extension of the period of renewal up to 15-1-2019 for the permits of trade professionals. And I will wait for your answers, Minister. I am sorry to repeat myself because I have asked these questions from the first sitting. I would now like us to have clear answers. In any case, we see the draft law as positive and we are voting in favour of it. We will keep the safety distances and vote against those articles that do not agree with us and the corresponding amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u96	Thank you to Mr. Amyras and to the economy in time. We're gonna go into the chatter list.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u98	Would you like to place yourself in general, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u99	Generally.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u100	Minister, because two colleagues want to speak, why should they go to the Conference of Presidents?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, I had contacted the Bureau to speak with the rapporteurs because there is an obligation...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u102	All right, Minister. The Vice-President of the Government - Minister for Economy and Development, Mr. Ioannis Drasakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u103	I apologise to colleagues, but there is an obligation and that is why I have asked to speak now. I would like to make a few general comments, given that the bill was discussed in the committee in a climate of cooperation and consensus, and I believe that the result will be positive and will have the approval of this House. Besides, any comments are also accepted by the Minister in a positive spirit. I would therefore like to make a more general reference, because some comments have been made, but there are also exogenous developments which, as you may have seen today, affect markets in many countries and in our own. It is obvious that one of the causes of these turbulences is the development of policies in Italy and possibly in Spain. I would like to say that these developments do not surprise us as government. We have long drawn attention to the fact that we are coming out of the memoranda in an international environment of growing uncertainty that no one can predict precisely the dimensions that can be taken because there are many areas of uncertainty and sources. And I would just like to stress that our country is in a position which has sufficient resources to deal with these developments. It is good that we come out of the memoranda, so we gain the opportunity and dominance of developments. We have the opportunity to design our future within the European framework. It is good that we are creating our own fund for high-definition borrowing, so that whatever happens in the future, we can have a weapon in our hands beyond the European institutions. It is good that our banks have been capitalised and have recently come out of a strict test and unfavourable developments scenario. It is also good that we are moving forward with our own plan for the next day, the holistic development plan. Of course, if these turbulences are intensified, expanded, continued, it is obvious that the strengths of each country will be tested separately and the European Union will have to see more comprehensive solutions, more comprehensive shielding measures - I repeat - should developments continue or intensify. With regard to a comment I have heard before a colleague here on the so-called new memorandum or a supplementary memorandum, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the country is coming out of the memoranda and that is a good fact. That is, what we have been through all these years, I do not think they should create a relativization of developments, that, whether we have a memorandum or do not have a memorandum, is the same thing, that if we have an obligation to make some policies, otherwise we will suffer the threat of bankruptcy, it is the same thing as agreeing to some measures that need to be implemented. So the country comes out of the memoranda and the tough comitology, so we are gaining levels of freedom that we need and, of course, we have greater responsibilities with regard to the use of these possibilities. What has been called the "additional memorandum", you know very well that it is a technical term that has been accompanied by the end of each evaluation since 2010. When an evaluation is completed, a text called a supplementary memorandum shall be drawn up, which provides for the prerequisites to be institutionalised to bring the evaluation to an end. That's what this is about. We will soon have the relevant legislation in this House. And, of course, criticism is acceptable, legitimate, it is everyone's right. What I would point out, however, is that I do not think it helps to create a virtual picture of where we are. The problems are not solved by getting out of the memoirs. The deeper causes of crisis and suffering of the past are not overcome. A lot of people are still here. And we have a lot of work to do. At the same time, however, we are achieving a goal. We are going to a - as we called it - clear, to be able to reconstruct our forces as a country, as a society, to be able to step on a solid ground and plan our steps from now on. This is true - I would say to a certain extent - for the measures that we have had to take precedence and apply after leaving the memoranda. When the picture is completed, when the deal on debt is concluded, when we and officially will have come out of the memoranda, here we are discussing in the database by accepting the commitments we have made, but also the new data that have been formed, to see exactly how we go from here. The general message I would like to say is this: Risks abroad exist. I think, however, that it is not a question of investing in the political planning of these risks. The issue for everyone - I want to believe - is how to prevent these risks, and if we cannot prevent them, then see how to deal with them, how to shield ourselves and how to deal with them in the interests of the social and wider national interest. As far as the subject to which this bill is concerned is concerned, I would include it in the wider problem of how we are creating a favourable business and investment environment, with which we could achieve a speeding up of the positive developments that have already been noted. Because it is good that last year and this year we have an increase in investment, but the deinvestment that has taken place is such that we need even stronger investment. Unemployment, too, despite its decline, remains at a high level. And finally, in order to go to a new production model or, as one says, to a new form of economy that is sustainable both in the ecological sense of the term and in the international competitive dimension, investment is needed, as it is the power that transforms the economy. We need new investments in targeted areas where there is a higher added value, where there is the possibility of extroversion. All this is linked to investment. I would therefore like to point out here that at least three ways of responding to this issue can be seen in the public debate. The first way is to create such a favourable business and investment environment through the deterioration of work. Work is considered cost. So the less this cost is, the more favourable the conditions are for investment. This was the core - if you want - of the first and second memorandum, but it remains the core of opinions on some of the lenders. This policy has been implemented and failed. The labour costs in Greece decreased by more than 25%, the collective bargaining rights in general were downgraded or even banned by some, the minimum wage was reduced by 22%. As a result, yes, we have had an improvement in the so-called price competitiveness, but the structural competitiveness which is our country's great problem has not been addressed. It is precisely in the third memorandum that this is recognised and emphasised on other structural factors, to which I shall refer next. This policy, which sees the creation of favourable investment conditions through the reduction of wages and the deterioration of labour, therefore does not only bear fruit but also have negative consequences. One negative consequence is that it restricts internal demand and therefore the internal market. The second is that it creates a stimulus to move towards a knowledge-based economy with an emphasis on technological innovation and therefore on improving labour productivity, which is also the background to the competitiveness of economies. If one sees it practically, one can understand it. If an enterprise has such cheap labour, it often makes unnecessary the search for other production methods that are more modern and more advanced internationally. The second approach is to reduce taxation. We're hearing a lot. Who doesn't want to reduce taxation? It is also a pleasure to promise a reduction in taxation. But we must also see the real facts here in order to see that in many countries, and in the past in our country, while the tax on profits has been reduced, we have not increased investment. To come to Spain today, however, I would mention that the corporate tax rate was reduced from 30% to 25%, and at the same time, investment fell from 24% to 20% as a percentage of GDP. In Portugal, with which we are in a comparable situation, in 2009 the corporate tax rate was 25% and in 2016 it fell to 21%. At the same time, investment decreased from 21% to 15% as a percentage of GDP. So the reduction in profits tax rates is not a catalyst, there is no automatic mechanism, an equation that I reduce profits taxation and thus increase investment. Why? Firstly, because the reduction in the tax on profits relates to the distribution of profits. When a company generates a profit, this gain shares with the banks, since it has loans and pays the interest rate, with the state, in which it pays tax, and with the shareholders, who also receive their own profit. Does that matter? Of course it does. But is that decisive for investment? This is not decisive for investment. Investment-determined is profit expectation, profit-making conditions. It is also politically important that there are various ways and regimes for the accumulation of capital. So politics can affect to some extent even under conditions of capitalism important from a social and development point of view. The third direction, therefore, is that which the present government believes and follows and which consists in affecting those long-term factors, which in our country have created a regime which is negative for entrepreneurship either in the sense of the obstacles, which the honourable Member has spoken before us, but also in the sense of a chaotic situation, an unreasonable development which generally favours speculative activity rather than socially responsible entrepreneurship. Some of these factors, which we will have the opportunity in another bill and other opportunities here to discuss, concern: Firstly, the creation of business infrastructures. Secondly, the creation of new licensing schemes, which we are moving from our Ministry, simpler, more effective and new control systems, because we now have the phenomenon of'multi-controls, but no controls', that is, sometimes excessive controls lead to ineffective control. Thirdly, changes in company law, as is the law, such as the law on public limited companies, as will the law on transformations, as will the law on the upgrading of GEMI and others. Fourthly, the creation of new relations between the state and business. An example here is the new development law. Transparent relationships, relationships...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u104	The one who's become or who's coming?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u105	He who has become and is already operating and will have better quantitative results now that he is relieved of the weights of the past. Because, you know, we received about six thousand - I don't remember exactly how many applications - have been incorporated into the laws, without funding for these laws. I am therefore referring to procedures that have been transparent, as automated as possible, in the position of past customer relations, which have often been a 'thermal' corruption. Fifthly, new financing instruments that can finance investment and investment projects, even if the banks because of red loans are unable to fully play this role, and already, we are able to say that if there is an investment project, there are resources and ways to finance it. Sixth, a new toolbox that helps spatial and general development planning. Land registers, forest maps, delimitation of hayaloo, specific sectoral spatial planning plans where there were no, such as mineral wealth, which we never had spatial plan, local spatial plans and land use plans, maritime spatial planning. Many times when we say bureaucracy, behind it are policies, either political gaps, political errors or political responsibilities. What I have said, these years of problems of the Greek economy and society, for decades, are open and have created exactly a system of complex, inefficient, where everyone is being damaged. And businesses are damaged and the public interest is damaged. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] In conclusion, therefore, I would like to say that I believe we are in the right direction. Neither wage cuts nor easy tax announcements are a convincing solution. A convincing answer is to solve the chronic problems, which were, moreover, many of the causes of our country's crisis and bankruptcy. As far as taxation is concerned, I would like to say, however, that if we have a financial resource to make use of, part of it will also be used for targeted tax relief. But before we decide on these targeted tax reductions in terms of entrepreneurship, we will have a dialogue with business operators, in order to find out which tax reductions are the ones that create not temporary benefits but long-term favourable conditions. I must tell you that we have also taken to the Ministry proposals seriously from the Exporters Association of Northern Greece, from business associations such as Greek Production, BSE and others. All these proposals will be evaluated and we will, as I have said, come up with targeted interventions through dialogue. We are therefore creating a favourable framework for investment and socially responsible entrepreneurship. We are creating the conditions for entrepreneurship to be free, but within specific social and ecological commitments, and that is what I think is required of the social interest today in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u107	I'll make the announcement about the school and then I'll give you the floor, Mr. Loverdos. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-three students and students and three educational attendants from the 5th Municipal School of Chios. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u108	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr President, I will speak later, after listening to Mr Pittsirla. However, under the Rules of Procedure, I react to the Minister's intervention with the following. That's right. He left the issues of the draft law and spoke more generally about the issue of his competence, which is also one of the biggest issues - if it is not the biggest issue - facing our country today. But after three and a half years it is a basic obligation of a Minister of Development, no matter how easy it is to say that he is the third in a row - the government does not start in 2015 with him - to tell us what he will do and not to tell us what has not happened in the past. I note, Mr President, that the implementation of Mr Tsakalotou's so-called 'Olympic Development Plan' on which a mere reference was made and not more. That's for me. But I'm taking the floor for something else. Mr Minister, you are right to refer to the need to reduce taxes. In all aspects of Parliament, this is what we are talking about. That is right, too, you say that there is a need to adjust the minimum wage. All Parliament's wings say that. But you do not have a duty to simply mention what would be good to do. You have a duty to tell us something else, after three and a half years, in fact, to stay in the governance of the country. You are the longest-lived government in the crisis. All the others had less time in front of them, for many reasons, one of which you are, as Opposition. You are obliged to tell us how Greece will come to the luxurious position of reducing taxes. You didn't say anything about the contributions. You have omitted it as easily understood. I imagine you include it. How will you reduce contributions? How will you be able to raise the minimum wage? This is the task of a combination of responsibilities of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance. You're half of all the effort for a development course. Here, today, I am afraid to say that you have made programme statements. However, as long as you are recently in this ministry, you have no right after three and a half years to stand in programming statements. A record of what you will do right away, as Minister of Development, would be the right one. You didn't. Maybe you have another chance in the future. The tools you mentioned, such as permits - and I close with this - are tools which other predecessors have brought here two years ago and in practice have not been successful. Please, since the next time you're here, we can discuss something about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u109	Mr Amyras has the floor, and then the Minister, Mr Drasakis, immediately, has the floor to answer a whole question. Please be brief, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u110	I shall be brief, because I have to go to the Conference of Presidents. Dear Mr. Drasakis, the Greek language and terminology we use can give us many times the necessary paths to escape reality, but anyway, this reality is a millstone that entangles you and entangles you. You can't escape truth and reality. Why am I telling you this? Because if a stranger listened to you, what memos is Mr Drasakis talking about? You use the plural and you say a general expression "we come out of the memorials". We're not coming out of the memoirs. We come out of the memorandum of yours - if we come out of it - from the Memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos. Why am I telling you this? Because in 2015, in 2016 and 2017 you didn't even use the word Memorandum. You were talking about the program. What's this program? So a first move of good will on your part would be to use the real terminology and say "we come out of the memorandum that we put you." One of the prisoners. I am going to stay a little on taxation and the reduction of corporate taxation. You said we should see it and we'll see it in the future. You've already done it. I would remind you that you have reduced casino tax from 37% to 17%, that is, 20 points below. In fact, if they have a percentage of profits and upwards their tax is up to 8%. That is, from 37% to 8% are 29 units. I wanted to ask you: What did you think there? What was the plan to propose casinos to reduce taxation rather than export businesses? So I conclude by saying that we are not, unfortunately, coming out of the memos. I wish we could go out. We are typically coming out of the Memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos, but the "ura" remains. And the "ura" is the reduction of pensions from 1 January 2019, that is to say in a few months from now. We will have a reduction of almost all pensions up to 18%. I remind you of the primary surpluses you described as bloody and unbearable for the Greek people and which remain high with your signatures until 2022 and 2060. I would remind you of the other date, in 2114, where the superstate for ninety-nine years will in fact have the responsibility of managing too many of the Greek public's assets and immovable rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u112	So, dear Mr Drasakis, I would say that it is good to reduce taxation, but not for casinos. First, it had to be done for the Greek exporters, especially for Greek small and medium-sized enterprises that produce, innovate, hire people, give incense and push the country through their efforts in an environment of adversity outside the memorials that you have put us into. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u113	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, it was not my intention to tell Mr Amyras to adopt our own narrative, judgment and interpretation, or to tell Mr Loverdos what he has to do on certain issues. I gave a specific briefing. Whatever I said, Mr. Loverdo, this is part of the development plan. The law on anonymous companies will be here in two weeks. The new medium-term plan, which will show the financial area we have, will come along with the prerequisites. The plans and timetable for new licensing schemes, spatial planning, all the measures I have said are in place. They're action plans. As I said last time, speaking of the development plan, - I repeat - our Ministry is open, beyond the parliamentary control that you have the right to do on any subject, to discuss and give you information, which is perhaps not mature to be publicly available. Besides, we know each other. My intention is not to avoid reality. My intention is to speak about reality, of course, seeing what I think we can do. As far as Mr Amyras is concerned, my perception of things is that in 2010 this country went bankrupt. The historic fact, that is, what children will learn in history, is that in 2010 Greece went bankrupt. So something was wrong with this bankruptcy. There were some reasons. There were some pathogens. We need to think very seriously about what these pathogens were so that we do not repeat them in the future. The second is that, because we went bankrupt, we couldn't borrow from the markets any more and we signed a loan contract from institutions for memoranda. This historic phase ends in August 2018. You don't like the terminology I said? The historical fact here again is. With the current government, we believe that the end of this painful period, which begins in 2010, will be signed and we are reaching today. From there on, you can have whatever narrative you want that crisis starts in 2015, that until then things were good, that the destruction that all humanity speaks about has suffered Greece now that the economy is recovering. That's your right. Don't ask me to say what you think. So I repeat - to conclude - that as far as matters are concerned I was specific. On another occasion, we will be able to be detailed. If a colleague wishes, he can ask for any matter through parliamentary control. If a party wants information from the ministry, we can also provide it. In all matters, there are plans and timetables in terms of their progress and their completion. I think, looking at these plans, we can be not only optimistic about the future, but we can make sure that we are on a path that if we do this - and other things must be done - then the exit from the memoranda can prove a critical starting point, precisely so that we can rebuild the country and relieve it of such crises in the future. As far as casinos are concerned, there was no reduction in their taxation. Taxation remains the same. The place was modified on the tick, which is different. Mr. Pittsorlas, who is here, is more aware of the developments if you want to be informed. I don't know if anything else was said in particular. For now, we're staying in these. Here we will be to come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u115	Mr. President, when will Mr. Pittsorlas speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u116	He'll let us know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, Members also want to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u118	Members will speak, we are simply following the procedure. Let us start the list of speakers with Mr Papaleou first. There are five people who have been registered, so the Parliamentary Representatives should slowly state to speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u119	We need to talk to the parliamentarians after we hear the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u120	All right, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief and very specific. The rapid technological developments and the conditions of globalisation of the economy require flexibility and speed in economic trade. The limited liability company is no longer an attractive corporate form, mainly because of the inflexibility from which it is characterised both institutionally and economically. The new corporate forms "have left it behind", resulting in the demand for new limited companies being set up to be extremely limited. The course of the EIA is downwards. However, this draft law attempts to adapt the limited liability company as far as possible to the new circumstances. The main changes proposed by the draft law concern the name, publicity, the meeting of partners, managers and the establishment of a foreign branch in Greece. Indicatively and specifically, the possibility of the name being created is not mandatory for the names of the partners or the object of the undertaking to be indicated at all times in the context of the principle of truth and as a consequence of the non-drugness of the parties. In addition, it is possible to form the name with Latin characters in order to facilitate international trade. They are invited to convene them by electronic means and to hold a meeting of the partners by teleconferencing. In addition, the percentages of the required majority of 3⁄4 on the partners and corporate shares are reduced to 2/3 for critical decisions, resulting in greater flexibility. It harmonizes Law 3190/1955 with the requirements of the newest law on disclosure since it is published in the General Commercial Register - in the GFCM - and not in the Official Journal of the Government, as well as in the new requirements relating to financial statements. The procedures shall be simplified and subsequently reduced costs in critical parts of the EIA life cycle, such as in the recommendation by replacing the notary document by a model statute, in accordance with Law 4441/2016 and the respective decision of the Minister of Economy and Development, as well as in the solution by abolishing the notarial document (solution). The compulsory recourse to the court for the revocation of an administrator designated by the statutes and for the definition of the value of the shares in the cases of the transfer of the cause of death shall be abolished. It facilitates the establishment in Greece of a foreign EIA branch, coming from a country - member of the European Union by abolishing administrative approval, which remains in the case of companies from outside the European Union, with the aim of strengthening the flexibility of foreign companies in decision-making on investment moves in our country. Finally, an authorizing provision is provided for the codification of Law 3190/1955 and its performance in municipality, a provision which is a timely request from both the services and professionals involved in company law and the market. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a vote in all the regulations which have been adopted and which will be adopted in the very near future and which simplify the procedures for the establishment, operation and resolution of this type of company and thus reduce administrative costs and administrative bureaucracy. They also upgrade cooperation and trade with abroad, adapt the institutional framework to the conditions of the international, European and domestic economy and generally facilitate business activity. Thus, gradually and gradually, the preconditions for the country's forward-looking reconstruction are being created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Papaliou. The floor has been raised by the Independent Member, Mr Papakostas, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I must tell you that I am pleased that this legislation, which you are introducing today, is almost universally accepted. This is because I believe that it is based - and very rightly so - on the basis of this legislative initiative in accepting the content of the legislation by the parties concerned. Since interested parties consider that they are serving what they have and have, I believe that this legislation can really stand in life and in the market and in reality, because this is the value of the law as a tool to solve problems. For the economy of the debate, I would like to agree with the comments by two previous colleagues, Mr Karras and Mr Amyras, Mr Karras, on the issues of the insurance and tax information of the sellers of the people's markets and Mr Amyras, particularly in relation to the amendments - additions you have tabled, of course, focusing very much on e-government. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to Mr Drasakis' suggestion. It puts essentially the framework in which the country will move from today, yesterday. The fact is that the Italian drama is of great concern, because the slightest change in the disposal of Italian citizens, ladies and gentlemen, and the possible break with Brussels makes it very likely that the euro area, the European Union, will be dissolved. It is absolutely certain that Italy, the third largest economy in the European Union, does not think it will be back if they do not take the exchanges they request. This is also a circumcision of our country. I also heard Mr Kotzias, who said in his interview on the occasion of the Skopje debate that - and so it is - Italy's crisis to have an impact, of course, on Europe, but one more on us. At this point I must tell you that we need the unity of the political forces in which the President of the Republic was invoked and appealed. It is more than ever the necessary and adequate condition, ladies and gentlemen, for the country to move forward together - 'a love, a heart, a fate', says the song - both in Europe and in the country. The political initiative which I announced on 17 April - the NEW - which will be transformed in the autumn into a political body, in order to take the national elections and the European elections, is recommended within this climate of toxicity that has been shaped in the previous period, first of all by the creation of a national action plan, which the next day from the formal exit and within the roaming of the Italian drama will function as the solid ground on which the country will step on its own feet and with its own tools for the next ten years. I have to tell you that the situation is indeed very unrealistic. Markets have been immersed in conjunction with the crisis in Spain, on the occasion of the scandal, on the motion of censure on the corruption of the Rahoi government. So you realise that here we have the opportunity for today's architecture of the Parliament, with its tensions, with its passions, to leave back her evil self and from today for the political forces to unite their energy for the benefit of the country and the Greek people, knowing exactly what is going on in the country. Unity is a prerequisite, and the leaders must understand the power of unity, the unified adhesive toward the people, which has recently been divided by justified or unjustified indignation. For me there is no sacred indignation in the issues of violence, because it is deadlocked and it cannot have political startings. We all have to understand that. I would like to make a statement in the face of these dramatically, which has seen the light of publicity lately, which is the following. History teaches us and we should know it. We must be aware of the dark times, in order to avoid the mistakes of these periods and also of the bright periods, in order to eliminate the situation. With regard to the debate, which is taking place on the issue of resolving the name of the neighbouring country, I believe and wish that it will not be once again, in such difficult times and at such a critical and degrading time in the European Union and in the Eurozone, a field of reflection and demonstration of a correlation of forces here, in the Greek Parliament, as well as of exercising influence on society in view of other events that are going to see the light of publicity in the coming days, taking advantage of the feeling of the Greek people and of its sensitivity to the issue of name. I appeal, Mr President, because I think that we will all be judged and very strict. Finally, I would like to say this on the occasion of the government's plan for holistic development and where the country will be led after its formal exit from the memorandum. As head of the NEO political power, and as an Independent MEP, I recommend to the government and encourage her to see the issue of minimum wages, the issue of avoiding collective redundancies, the issue of the social agenda, which concerns society, pensions, negotiations and building our policy together for the next few years in the context of the fact that man is at the heart of our policy and must be served by it rather than the reversal of the pyramid, where we have levelled the man and focused on the tools that we have essentially found in our priorities. So that's the stake. Because societies, the European Union, the Eurozone, must have citizens who enjoy the basic right to work and decent living and survival in many cases for the very poor, the right to protection of motherhood without asterisks and footnotes, the right to serve the man where he is weak as a citizen in our democratic societies. If we do not function in this way, I am very afraid that our societies will turn into what Uggo described as'shoulders', because European civil society has been quite impoverished by the policy deficit. This is why we are also proposing a new architecture for the euro. It needs a new architectural political will to stop the cruel monetarist policy and to put its burden on civil society, on citizens. If that does not happen, then politics and politicians will stop having substance and content of existence and then we will be led to other much more oligarchal situations than we are experiencing today. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Papakosta. The reason for Mrs. Big Economics from SYRIZA has been for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, today's bill is coming to cover the needs that have been created for many years in the commercial world and, unfortunately, have remained without any legislative response. Modern business practices in commerce, as is currently taking place at high pace and high requirements, as well as the wider development of e-commerce, all these and many other parts of the time, have long been seeking a modern and flexible legislative framework for the companies that are being set up. Indeed, I must acknowledge that, first of all, the setting-up of private capital companies was a first move in the right direction. However, as we all know very well, those who are involved in trade and business, most of the Greek trade remains in the form of the anonymous company and the limited company. So these two legal forms need more attention. So this bill does just that. It is obvious that it is the result of a careful recording of all the problems faced by an EIA today or - even better - all the obstacles that prevent entrepreneurs from opting for the establishment of an EIA. As a follower of proper research and recording, the bill solves many of the problems of the past and creates a completely new, modern and flexible framework for the establishment and operation of a limited liability company. Of course, there are many provisions that need our attention. These are, firstly, the modernisation of the company's name, which can now bring what the partners want. That is to say, for the first time, the fantastic name, always in the context of the principle of truth, so that any imaginable title can be legal, provided that it is not misleading. Secondly, the name may be in Latin for the first time. Finally, there is both simple and useful regulation for all Greek companies, which are traded abroad and have a common name for both the domestic and foreign companies. Thirdly, it is the change to the company's minimum capital. The capital from a euro will make the EIA competitive with IKE. It also fully meets the needs of many new businesses, mainly service undertakings that do not require a respected amount as a working capital and therefore there is no need to be limited by anachronistic logic. Fourthly, the procedure for setting up is very simplified, as no longer necessarily requires a notarial document, but it is sufficient for the existence of a standard statute under Law 4441/2016. Fifthly, the possibility of setting up a foreign EIA branch in Greece from a European Union country is very simple. Sixthly, the unnecessary and more costly dual disclosure obligation - the EIA register and the Official Journal of the Government - has been abolished so far only by publication in the GFCM. Seven, majority voting is exempted in total. I think that all these procedures are enough - they have already been mentioned today - and they are really useful changes, which help to change attitudes more generally. Any prospective or ambitious businessman will no longer think that he is going to be faced with huge bureaucracy, but he will instead know that the overall legal environment is simple and friendly. Finally, I would like to make a small reference to the rules on outdoor trade. It was extremely necessary to extend until 15 January 2019 the authorisations for the renewal of plaque and staging trade. However, the most important thing, in my view, is that people with disabilities will now be able to hold a legitimate license for a professional salesman in the countryside. It would be highly hypocritical, I think, to do everything as a state and as a society seeking to help people with disabilities and, at the same time, to create obstacles for them when they attempt to operate and be financially independent and autonomous, because that gives them real courage to move on in their lives. Therefore, this provision was indeed necessary and perfectly reasonable. Today's bill marks a new era for capital companies, following other changes directly to anonymous companies. My personal experience of business has shown me that unnecessarily bureaucracy can destroy a businessman or at least disappoint him. So the first thing we have to do for those who are trying or interested in trying in Greece is to ensure a rapid, efficient and flexible process for them. In the last eight years, at least, all we have been discussing is the need for new investments in Greece and the continued hunting of growth. I think it goes without saying that investors and opportunities for money flow cannot exist unless there is at the same time a sound, simple and minimum bureaucratic system for establishing and managing a company in Greece. Today's bill ensures, ladies and gentlemen, that it also gives, together with all the other government initiatives to attract investment, a note of optimism to Greek businesses and to Greek trade for the best, most favourable and creative days to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. Mrs Antoniou from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development which amends the law governing companies with limited liability, the well-known EIA, namely Law 3190/1955, which aims to modernise their legal framework. It is a bill that, although it contains some positive and useful provisions, fails to answer a key question: why does a businessman, Minister, choose in 2018 to set up an EIA rather than a different type of company? It is well known that most entrepreneurs, who today want to set up a capital company, prefer mostly private capital companies, IKEs, which offer greater flexibility and, secondly, anonymous companies. Unfortunately, this bill, as our rapporteur has pointed out, does not give any incentive to the new businessman to turn to the EIA, because it does not provide for any regulation on the main problems he faces on a daily basis. And what are these problems? We all know. It's the tax system that you have imposed on your unbearable insurance system. In this sense, then, technical improvements are welcome in an old piece of legislation, but we should also see the substance of the matter. And the point is that this bill does not provide any incentive, no development perspective. And I fear that after this law the EIA will remain an antiquated company, without special advantages for today's businessman. I would, however, like to focus on my position on Amendment No 1586 by the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs. This amendment refers to the relocation of the Hellenic Marine Research Centre from the Greek, Agios Kosmas, in Anavyssos. This is an amendment which, as the Minister says, is aimed at speeding up and simplifying the procedures for relocating the institutes of PPE and ensuring the smooth operation of its services. The extent to which this objective is implemented in the context of this amendment is an issue that raises a great deal of talk. Of course there are many important questions which the Minister has to answer and clarify. Mr Fotakis is not here, who has proposed the amendment, but I imagine he will listen to us. First of all, we find once again the proverbial delay, procrastination and inability of the government and the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs to resolve an important issue which concerns one of the most important research centres in the country. Minister, have you been at your disposal for three and a half years - three and a half years, is Mr. Fotakis not Minister? - to implement the relocation of PPE from Agios Kosmas to Anavyssos, by regular procedures. What have you done in these three and a half years on this issue, which, according to the amendment, is a year old? The answer? Absolutely nothing! And you are coming today - literally the last minute, as rental should have been signed by the end of June - and what do you say in paragraph 1 of the amendment? That the leases for the accommodation of the institutes of EBRD will be made directly, without a tendering procedure and by way of derogation from the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 715 - all by way of derogation you do - and the contracts will be drawn up and signed by the Minister himself, even after the recommendation of the Board of Directors of the EPCHETH. What prevented you, Minister, three and a half years from running a competition? Why choose directly and by way of derogation from the existing lease provisions? I look forward - since today is the endurance - to your answers patiently. But I won't leave without an answer. And from what we can see in paragraph 2 everything is regulated by your decision: the transfer agreements, the terms and timetable, the costs of the services provided and all specific issues relating to financial management. At this point I would like some clarification from Mr Fotakis, the Minister responsible. We see from the General Accounting Report of the State that there is an expense to the State budget, which says: a) the amount of EUR 20,000 per month and the amount of EUR 14 000 per year for the payment of rent; b) the amount of EUR 2,5 million for the establishment of premises, the carrying out of studies, constructions, the supply of equipment for the implementation of the relocation. Minister, where do these numbers come from? You've already signed a lease agreement and you know that evidence? As far as you're concerned, you haven't signed a contract. So where do the EUR 20,000 a month come from and the EUR 140,000 a year? You have to inform everyone of the full details of the lease that will be signed, the name of the private leaser, the duration of the lease - you have said something for five years - and the main, the amount of the lease. How many months will it be, how much in the first year and how much in the next few years? You should also explain to us what the amount of EUR 2.5 million is, and whether or not the completion of the new building of the ELECT in Black Lithari is, of course. Because if it is not included, it seems to me a lot of EUR 2.5 million for space formation and studies. Don't you agree, Minister? Please give us specific information to know the Greek taxpayers exactly where their money is going. Finally, paragraph 3 of the amendment refers to the relocation of only the establishments and tanks of the PPEH. In Agios Kosmas, Minister, there are not only the aquaculture and their facilities. We must therefore ensure, in any case, that all services are relocated in the future, that the research activities of this important research centre, the ELDR, are carried out in the Black Lithari. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. In conclusion, let us hope that the necessary clarifications will be given by the Minister responsible and that it will be implemented quickly and above all, with legality and transparency, the process of relocating the EMPLOYE to Anavysssos. It is very important to ensure the uninterrupted functioning of one of the top research centres in the country, but also important not to burden, Minister, the state budget and the Greek taxpayer with costs, which are not precisely identified and sufficiently justified. Tomorrow it will not be of patience, so if you do not justify the amendment, you will tell us in writing when we ask you to do so without endurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEIGERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-four students and students and six teachers from the 12th Municipal School of Agrinio and the 3rd Municipal School of Lefkada. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] At this point, I would like to inform you that we are waiting for Mr Kegeroglu, who is taking part in the Conference of Presidents. In essence, the list of speakers is almost complete. I would like to ask Mr Saridis if he wants to precede the Minister, because it is normally the Minister's duty to speak and then the parliamentary representatives. You, Mr. Saridis, what do you want? If you're going to talk now, or we're going in a row.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u129	Let the Minister speak first, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u130	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u131	First of all, I would like to thank everyone for their contribution to the drafting of the bill. I'll say a few things because I think we've exhausted the conversation. A question has been raised by Mr Athanasios and the last speaker from the New Democracy about the fact that the bill does not answer the question of why we should have an EIA and what motives we are giving for this today. I'll answer with honesty. Hard of all of us, who are here, would be doing an EIA today. If he was invited to choose a type of company, he would not choose the EIA. But there are tens of thousands of EIAs operating and having huge problems. The aim of the bill is, therefore, to solve, as far as possible, the problems of these companies and to enable their partners' lives and lives. I believe that we are doing this to a significant extent, and that is a very important offer. Indeed, it concerns mainly small and medium-sized enterprises and not large companies or large capital, small and medium-sized enterprises which are caught up in an astronomical regime and face very big problems and high costs on a daily basis. We are therefore trying to give solutions to these. Of course, there is a limit to the solutions that we will give. And here Mr Athanasios is right, that this company has a special feature. She's also capitalist and she's personal. So we cannot dismantle one of the two in the effort that we are doing for solutions. Because if we are to abolish it, we are to break the character, so we are, in my opinion, going beyond what is permitted. So we must respect this character and respect for the nature of solving what we can. Now as far as conversion is concerned, because Mr Karras - and he rightly insists - insists that the possibility be given, I have said it and I repeat that we will give it real opportunity by means of the law that we will bring about transformations. Law 4070/12 provides for the possibility of conversion and there was a special provision - only the deadline - for more favourable regulation. However, it has generally not been implemented and has not been implemented because there is no framework for transformations. So that is the problem, that is the essence of the problem, and it is not just about the RES, but it is about all types of companies. The relevant department of the Ministry, which has to answer the questions posed by the companies to be transformed, is moving blindly and by stepping into case-law only. Therefore, with the Transformation Act, we will give real opportunity to convert all the RES companies they want into another type of company. Secondly, I come to the issue of publicity and the issues raised by Mr Amyras. He's gone again, but I'll repeat the answer. Indeed, there is a big deal. There is a great deal of question for the whole market to have a real picture and easy access to the image of businesses. We also have a number of recent examples. Mr Amyras, I am referring to your remarks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u132	I'm sorry I was gone, but I was at the conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u133	I say that the issue you raise is a very serious one. We really need to take great steps, taking advantage of today's technological potential, and being able to give everyone access to the company profile. We can't do that in the bill. We'll do it in the GEME Act, because that's where we'll really turn the trade register into a very useful tool. Since June, the electronic form of licensing of a single voltage for companies will begin to function. We'll have a first step. However, above all, with the arrangements that we will introduce into the GFCM plan - and there we will discuss very thoroughly - we will really give this opportunity to a very large extent. Of course, there are many problems. For example, the judgments of the courts have a technical difficulty in using them electronically. However, I say that I recognise the problem and we will make a great effort so that we have very rapid steps in this area. To return to the increased majority. There are two amendments and we have made some consultation. I think that what can finally be accepted, without affecting the substance of the company's nature, is the amendment tabled by Mr Diaras for the increased majority. We'll make it acceptable and we'll improve as much as we can on the subject...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u134	So 50% of the partners?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u135	The amendment says more than 50% of the shareholders. Shareholders and two thirds of shares.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u136	In other words, it's not an amendment. It's a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u137	It's practically legal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Athanasios, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u139	It's really the limit. I wanted to make it easier, but it's the limit we're confronting the character of the company.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u140	I say this, Minister, because if that is the case, there is no need to introduce Mr Kaklamani's amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Athanasios, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u142	Yes, Mr. Kaklamanis has agreed on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u143	You talk to each other and you don't sound in general. That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u144	I would now like to refer to the International Chamber, because Mr Amyras asked a question. I think it is a very important institution - and we have also talked about it in committee - which has not been the subject of the importance. The greatest evidence is that of the arbitral decisions concerning the Greek State. It's a disastrous statistic. That is why I have recommended and effectively withdrawn the provisions relating to the Chamber. We have consulted both the administration of the International Chamber and the Union of Chambers. We will organise the dialogue between all the parties in order to go to a self-regulatory arrangement for the whole issue. We'll get her soon. In fact, we need to regulate the whole issue from the outset, namely what its members will be, what its finances will be, what its role and everything. Because he does now designate the representatives of arbitration. From there on, there are also the controversies that need to be lifted. I think we will resolve this and, of course, we will discuss it very thoroughly. As far as the guarantee is concerned, Mr President, we have asked the Bank of Greece, as we have asked. We have a positive opinion from both the Bank of Greece and EADESY on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u145	Can we see her for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u146	There are opinions. The provision refers to Law 3464/2016 and refers to insurance companies authorised in industry 15 of the guarantees. That is why reference is made to that law. So we are talking about a group of companies authorised to operate in the guarantee sector, and I repeat we have the positive opinion of both the Bank of Greece and the EASA. We therefore insist on this provision. Now, you've taken the Legislative on individual issues. I think that with all ten legislative elements in the debate there have been incorporation. Before I finish, I am tempted to refer to only one minute, not as much as the Greek one, because this is a really big one. Our aim is to complete the relocations by the end of June. You said we had three and a half years. We had not three and a half, because the presidential decree, which essentially completes the basic licence and therefore sets out all other procedures...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u147	We've known about that for three and a half years...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u148	Wait a minute. That's what I want to answer. The Presidential Decree was adopted in January. We're dealing with a very difficult matter. There has been a competition which provided for the moment the Convention was signed, a very large number of abstract here, in order to complete this work and to transfer the shares. That's never happened before. That is why we are so late, and that is why there is so much discussion. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Let me give you a typical example. There was a competition several years ago, of course, for the concession of seven thousand acres on the beach of Athens without a denomination, without a topography. That's what had to happen after that. As for the relocation, no service could be moved if the decisions that would mark the implementation of the project were not actually taken. Therefore, there may have been - and there has been - a delay. But it is the nature of this work that has led us to all these delays, of course, and the disagreements as well. However, it is all the way forward in this process. Now it has to be closed. Therefore, on the basis of this criterion, we must take all the decisions. Obviously the relevant Ministry will give all the answers it needs to give. And he'll give them away. However, the decision must be taken because we have to complete it at the end of June. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u151	Yes, Mr. President. You have the floor anyway, even though the subject is on personal grounds, since you're on the list. We will also give the floor to Mr Kegeroglu. Mr Minister, I imagine what you said about the assent was also in my position. We just haven't received it, and we don't know it, and that's why I'm placed. You have explained it and we will see it. Here, Mr President, you have asked for the floor on staff. You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u152	As I listened to you in my office, I did not agree with any amendment by Mr Deiaras. I agreed you went to a compromise proposal. My amendment said 3/5 of the share capital and half of the shareholders. You in your prototype of legislative practice said 65% of the share capital and half of the shareholders. Mr. Diaras says about two-thirds of the share capital. There's another 67% and 65%. So I do not agree with what you said now, with which you actually took back what you said at the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u153	I was informed that in a debate you said over 50%.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u154	What I told your partners - notice - you hadn't touched it at all in the bill. I showed them the old law of 1955, where, in fact, the simple decisions required an increased majority in relation to important decisions. In other words, to change the statutes, which is the big decision, they needed fewer things than to integrate an EIA into the ESDP. You didn't have it in the law at all, and I thought I'd let you know if you wanted to fix it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u155	I repeat. I have now accepted this restriction. I wanted it to be 50% of the shareholders. That changes - and that is why I said that there is a limit - to the nature of the company and to the simple decisions and decisions of the majority, and that is why I think that the 'now' should be left to 50% of the shareholders.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u156	The partners.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u157	Yes, the partners. 50% more. On the subject of the percentage, I did say in the initial speech that I would accept - and I accept it now - that we take it to 65%.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u158	Good. So we stay at 65% and you say an increased majority of the partners?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u159	Yeah, faces.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u160	So, Minister, if you'll excuse me very much, no decision will ever be taken at all. It's time for me to speak openly. You know them, too, and the plenary of the lawyers is writing them. The majority in the chapter, those who have put the money, are binding on the others, with the two-thirds you leave. And there's a lot of things going on. I have no RES, and so I cannot say a personal example, but in your ears it has come that even money is being asked under the table to go to the convention. In other words, if they are four people, they have 65% and the other two 35%, the two who have 65% cannot hold a general assembly either. They can't even do a general meeting. And that's developmental?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u161	Do you know what the problem is? Listen to me, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u162	I see that's the only problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u163	Here's the problem. Decisions by a simple majority shall be taken by more than 50% of the partners and 50% of the shares, the double majority. If we go to the increased majority and just to 50% of the partners, then it will be necessary for an increased majority of the partners to vote for a simple majority. We have a contradiction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u164	It's what I gave.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u165	Well done. So if we now remove the majority of the partners in general, we are abducting the character, the type of company. That's the problem. It's a delicate and difficult matter. Obviously, we must make it easier for decisions to be taken, but we will be circumventing the issues that Mr Athanasios has rightly raised at some point in the course of his speech. I have no objection to reducing the majority of the shares to 65%. We should do that, at this stage we should go. But the other really touches the essence of the diversification of this company which, if we undo it, I think we are going to go beyond what we can do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u166	Remember that when you bring the AU law again, you will raise the matter because, my Minister, you are turning your hands together. Those who have the money can go ahead of the company - don't fool ourselves - those who put the money to develop it, get two - three employees. So when the others say to them 'or you give me these under the table or otherwise I don't do a general meeting', you better go to Mr Carras's proposal to turn the EIA into an IKE, and solve the problem. Excuse me very much, nothing will happen. We cannot say 'development plan' and the one who puts the money cannot put it down unless the other two who don't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You're not listening, ladies and gentlemen. I have, on purpose, let this whole dialogue develop, because I think it solves many questions. I will give the floor to Mr Kegeroglu, who is the last of the speakers on the list. Immediately after we start with parliamentarians, we will go with parliamentary power.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, I am not the last. You took me last.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u169	You were at the Conference of Presidents, Mr. President. Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President, even now that you have given me the floor. I would like to point out two - three issues relating to amendments and to support an amendment that we have tabled together with the river Parliamentary Group. For the relocation of PPE, there is a simple question, one question. Three and a half years now, three years full, and a long time after the Greek agreement was adopted by the House, why not all the necessary steps have been taken to relocate it in accordance with normal procedures, procedures and procedures, and it needs to come to an end, a few days before the obligation, which is 30 June, ends, and bring in express procedures involving the risk and the opacity, but also, without - probably - the responsibility of any political person falling into his head responsibilities that are not their responsibility? I am referring specifically to Mr Fotakis, who will sign - he says - all that others will have done. Does he have that kind of confidence in them? How's he going to check it out? Why should it not be the responsibility of the collective body, of the board of directors of the EPPO that is doing the procedure and of fully responsible for it? To comply with the procedures to be followed. He's only going to the political person. What more will he check? So there is one issue, and we are not in agreement with this extraordinary procedure. It's because of the frugality of the government. Three and a half years now - I repeat - he has done nothing to ensure that there is a secure and fair transfer of PPE. The same applies, of course, to other facilities in place and as it is now trying to transport them, to dismantle them, as the OSCE station dissolves. Instead of carrying him, as predicted, and there is this third point in Attica for the OSCE, it dissolves it and it breaks it and goes some of it and others from there. I now come to the amendment on the payment of late debts by the General Government in respect of energy up to 30 April. We expect Mrs Papanatsiou to bring us the list of bodies. Because he obviously did not wake up one morning and said "There will be some bodies we haven't paid, pay them, PPC and the other bodies". Obviously there are some requests, there are some bodies, and on the basis of them, about 48 million. We're waiting for this list. And in January another amendment was adopted, which gives the opportunity - listen to me! - the advance payment to PPC of the consumption to be made within the year. That's a grocery store. You've become a grocery store. Public accountancy shall not be kept. With amendments from here and there, with sloppies, you come and bring arrangements to ensure the energy operator's liquidity. That's what this is about. So here you have to make a change, otherwise there is a lack of transparency about which bodies there will be clearing and who will not be there. What's he gonna say? And who can do it? The Minister, the General Accounting Office of the State, the body in its decision? It's possible - he says - to make a set-off. If that's possible! This'may' must be replaced by 'compensated', otherwise we are violating other rules. For some agencies there is no possibility of additional funding. How are you going to make it the extra funding? You will bring us the bodies today, otherwise there will be parliamentary scrutiny from Monday and with a request for documents to be lodged with us, in accordance with the procedure laid down. I now come to the same point, to remind you that you owe the ELTAs to all universal services, you do not pay them, and that has resulted in the management of ELTAs withholding money from PPC. Why didn't you put a provision here, since you want to settle matters, pay the ELTA due, and keep the ELTA money from PPC from being retained? Rather not PPC's money, but money paid by consumers and individuals, who even have the consequences of the interruption, because it does not appear to PPC that they have paid. They're losing the discount and they're on holiday. So where is the provision for ELTAs, if you want to deal with issues? That's why I'm telling you the grocery store is better. I now come to the amendment which we have signed - as I have said - with Potami and which concerns the possibility of carrying out tests, tests for candidate drivers and drivers. And you will tell me: 'You are not given the opportunity and you are told to be given?' There has been a huge problem since 1 May in every direction of transport in the country. No tests are carried out for candidate drivers and drivers who want to upgrade or renew their diploma and this results in some professional drivers losing their jobs or having the consequences of the Road Traffic Code, others who have planned their lives not to be able to test and we have a state that says "good, we will see, with some bill that will come, what to do later". I would ask you, Mr Pitsirla, to contact the Minister responsible for Transport to accept this amendment today, which is identical to the one brought by the Government and which had extended the scheme until 30 April this year. We are prolonging this for another important time in order to have a smooth operation. Since we do not seem to have a bill for a long time - I was at the Conference of Presidents and participated in the planning of the bills, there is no other bill to get this regulation in place - I would ask that this communication be made and that it be accepted by a general number of 1585 and a special 31 amendment that we tabled to resolve this major problem, which has been caused by the failure to carry out examinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. We're done with the list of speakers. We'll get to the parliamentary representatives. We have agreed to go according to parliamentary power, because everyone wanted to speak first, with the exception of Mr Xydakis who is going to speak last. Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot begin today's speech with a reference to today's day, which is a day of memory and mourning for Hellenism, as today, 29 May, was the day of the Desert of Istanbul. It is a day of memory and I think there should be a reference to the Greek Parliament. As far as the news is concerned, I think it seems, ladies and gentlemen, that Greece's suffering and adventures have not been taught in any other European Union country during the last three years, especially in 2015. As they all show, in a country which is a founding member of the European Union such as Italy, its political system seems to have envyed the glory of Mr Tsipras and Mr Varoufakis and in the name of a recovery of some supposedly lost national sovereignty, an Italian populism, left-wing right than it seems, requires a brave deletion of debt and are about to set their terms to the other partners. It is, unfortunately, as if it had not spent a day, as if they had not understood what had happened in Greece in 2015, a year that is perhaps the most devastating in the modern history of Greece. The Italian version of populism experiences its error leading the country to new elections. The issue is with what purpose: finally learn what the government of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks and unfortunately the Greek people learned in the most painful way, namely that you cannot achieve solidarity, sharing and reciprocating risks when threatening to be blown into the air by taking with you and others. The hopeless effort of the Italian President of the Republic to interpret and express the national interest, perhaps against the fresh people's mandate, in the name of protecting the Italian course and the savings of the Italians, is unfortunately not enough. Of course the Italian people's will to support the parties that have recently won the elections and which are saying that it is the Italian version of the SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, cannot be overtaken. Of course, the will of the Italian people cannot be overtaken because otherwise we are leading to dangerous interpretations of democracy. However, the wish of all of us must be that the cross-border orbit in which Italy has entered into has the least possible negative impact on Italian citizens, on the course of the European Union and, of course, on our country's exit from the political crisis. Why not be sure, ladies and gentlemen, that this crisis in the neighbouring country will not affect us too. Can anyone, indeed, imagine that a generous debt arrangement for our country, with an express request from the new government in Italy to reduce, possibly, 250 billion dollars and, essentially, a money issue, is possible? Does anyone see the euro area as politically possible to set the 'bad' example in itself and to facilitate us through Italian populism, giving us a debt settlement necessary when the Italian question is open? Or do you think it is more likely that next autumn that Greek populism will be wandering around as a deafness for example in view of the upcoming conflict between the European Union and Italy? Developments in Italy lead to a definitive collapse of another myth that the Government of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks have been trying to pass to the Greek people for the last time, the myth of the famous "clean exit" and secure access to the markets thanks to the supposedly good course of the Greek economy, a myth lying on the famous "cushion", the cash reserves as Mr. Tsakalotos said. However, without full and cheap access to the markets, a cushion loses its value in the international bond market by the first half of 2019 at the latest, due of course to the serious debt service needs, a cushion made by the money of the public authorities by removing the necessary liquidity from the economy and at the same time by crushing the social state. I think we should, ladies and gentlemen, consult in this Chamber on how the implementation of the budget goes ahead. The government has not at the moment given 300 million to hospitals and health, it has a net increase in the time-limits, namely a new one, 95 million, has not paid 500 million for public expenditure, withdrew 210 million euros, which, at the request of the Troika, will have to pay until August. Let us remember, of course, that the previous government, which the opposition called it 'German gypsies', was the one who paid its own debts on the basis of budgetary revenues, while on the contrary the current government of 'defence' pays its debts from loan instalments. Unfortunately, however, this is not in a position to do so either. Minister, you have still not managed to collect EUR 1 billion from the third and not the fourth assessment, because you are unfortunately not consistent with the payment of private debts. Our country is in danger of losing it if the government fails to prove by 4 June that it has paid its equivalent debts to the private sector. Unfortunately, you are redirecting the country towards the rocks. I have already heard the Vice-President of the Government give a nice state of economy and society, which unfortunately does not respond to reality, does not respond to the market and does not respond to the productive forces of that country. You must definitely create a safety net until confidence is fully restored. Redesign the market promotion policy, even together with the ESS. Take advantage of even the indisposed resources of the loan, which are currently ponding and are 27.4 billion euros, when your Government has undertaken for the aftermath of the programme liabilities of 5.1 billion new measures over the next two years, without having secured new funding. You are committed to primary surpluses of 3.5% by 2023 and 2% by 2060, which, as everyone has said, very much undermine the growth of the economy and investment. At least, make sure as a minimum return for the sacrifices you have submitted to the Greeks with the unnecessarily third and fourth memorandum to get the remaining instalments from it, when these doses, which are ponding, I repeat, have a rate of less than 1%. On the contrary, we see a rhetoric that we are going to go out to the markets to borrow at a rate of four times or five times, and I am very afraid that if this turbulence continues in the neighbouring country and, possibly, Spain, this interest rate will extend to such points that it will be difficult even for us to borrow. If again, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, you cannot lead the country to elections, as we have said before, if you consider that you cannot continue the country's governance. I'm coming to the bill now. Our rapporteur and colleagues who have spoken from New Democracy have told you so. Of course, we welcome the attempt to modernise the limited liability company law. Those who are dealing with legal matters know - and many other colleagues have said so - that the EIA is an outdated legal form, which unfortunately cannot stand up to international standards. It has also been overshadowed by developments and I understand, as you said in your speech, that this legislative intervention obviously concerns thousands of existing businesses and welcomes it to be regulated. I think that on this point I should stress the fact that the New Democracy is in a responsible position. It is almost in favour of the entire bill, with the remarks made by our rapporteur, Mr Athanasios. I say this as an example that conflicts with the role and attitude of SYRIZA, as far as it was in the Opposition. A sterile Opposition, because even positive bills, which were called upon to implement and then tried to get their paternity, had voted against when it was in the Opposition. This is the big difference between the New Democracy and SYRIZA. With regard to the amendments, the only one I shall refer to - and Mrs Antony referred to - is 1586/32, because I think it particularly highlights the Government's peculiarities in implementing the investment in Greek. Three and a half years you have done, as other colleagues have said, the relocation of PPE from Agios Kosmas to Anavyssos. Instead, you are going on at the last minute, under suffocating time frames, in direct leases, without competition, once again - and this must be stressed - by way of derogation from Presidential Decree 715/1979. Of course there is also a question which Mrs Antoniou has asked you: ultimately, where are these 2.5 million people going? Of course you are, perhaps, an unauthorised minister to answer that, but because the government has one unity and a totalitarianity, I think that question should also be answered, which is where this money is going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u173	Thank you Mr. Kefaliannis and the economy in time. Mr. Loverdos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. I will start my speech on a foreign policy issue with FYROM. I would like to make a comment, to make a statement, on the basis of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said a day ago that the Foreign Ministers completed their work, carried out their duties and now it is a matter of Prime Ministers. This is a serious statement. Because, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the Great Week, just before, informed all the political parties - and us - of the Democratic Alliance. He was in detail at the long-time meeting we had with him, from which there was not even a single word coming up as a leak. That is positive for both sides. From the detailed information we have had, we have received information on the substance of all the issues involved in the negotiation. Therefore, as the two Foreign Ministers conclude, this means that too many issues or all have been exhausted and the agreement is on their table and the Prime Ministers will reject it or ratify it. That's the right order. However, opposition cannot express an opinion - and I am referring in particular to the Democratic Integration which has held a position of responsibility for months. The opposition expects to see exactly what the foreign ministers agreement is and what the follow-up will be. We are concerned about the fact that he fell on the table, during the debate between the two Prime Ministers, a name that was off the line. For instead of geographical determination, Skopje's side proposed a charged ideologically and with a strong aeratristic dimension. The Prime Minister didn't reject him at once. He was released to the parties in Greece. It was reserved to respond at first stage, although it was outside the national line, as it was shaped in the 2000s. He responded negatively very retrospectively. We therefore have reservations. But we are waiting for the final outcome and we are waiting, when the government finds it necessary, for our information. On the draft law, Mr Drasakis has become a general minister. He did right. I, too, have to make a generalisation, referring to the framework within which you say that this draft law is also part of it. The main parameter for the Greek economy is the parameter of growth. With growth everything is related - in response to the obligations and social solidarity - and the crucifix theme of the Hellenic Republic today is that. In that sense, I am quite legitimate to say that your course so far is tragic. It is tragic, because you now, three and a half years' time, need to start making explanations of action. Mr Drasakis made an appeal to the permits in a future sense, if I understood them correctly, namely that you would bring something more. We here rejected the adoption of your licensing law, saying that it has so many difficulties in implementing it, which in practice a title is and its content does not correspond to its title. It is time for the act and after two years it turns out that you did not aim properly. Because you have abolished the granting of licences as a precaution, but you have put all the necessary instruments into effect. So when secondary licensing services have the same reason and make one, two, three years to respond, then what abolition of authorisations do we have? I would like to stress that you have evidence, in this case, of conflicting policies and, of course, of lack of coordination. That is why, when I saw the holistic plan, and having heard both Mr. Papadimitriou and Mr. Stathakis in previous years, the Ballalla's battle in 1854 came to my mind and a very serious and great one, as the special English poet, who said "we are going to the valley of death". When you do not have coordination, you cannot fulfil the obligations of the country's great development objective, which is development. Making a second brief historical regression, I remind you that you have received, as you confessed to state accounts, a country with 0.8% growth in 2014. All the forecasts of all international organisations went back to 3% and more in 2015, in 2016, in 2017. You went back two years and now you are behind the European averages, you are behind the needs. That creates problems. To overcome this kind of problem, whether you or the next government, you have to get to a really shocking rate of growth to get things straight. And for this to happen, you cannot come to the House in the middle of the 2018 salvage year and make programming statements like Mr. Drasakis' statements a few hours ago. Because they were programme statements. I understand that now he starts in this ministry and has his refreshments individually. But it's the third in turn. Mr. Stathakis, Mr. Papadimitriou, precedent. Mr. Drasakis is the third after three years and half. Well, you can't talk about bad texts and not be ready to say here and now what you're gonna do about the goals you've set. I told him he did not mention the 'Holy Development Plan' enough. In reply, he told me that he mentioned it, because what he said is embedded there. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is not to say that we want to reduce taxes. We had reduced them. We had started with significant reductions. You've raised them. They're familiar. I'll never see you again. But transferring as a political target to a suspected National Representation that has many years of experience from the crisis is not right. You cannot say 'I will reduce taxes'. You cannot say 'I will increase the threshold'. You must say how the growth will result from which you will be able to intervene positively in taxation and the minimum wage and so on. You say 'The holistic plan is our answer'. I will read you one, in my view, very characteristic point of the programme. For I believe - and I say this in vain, of course, for years - that the problem of growth in Greece has nothing to do with capital transfers. I'm not saying, that's serious, too. But it's not the first one. Because you may have funds that you transfer, of course, you want to transfer them, but you cannot, because you have inclined them from two major red tapes: administration and justice. Not in giving justice and judiciary judgment, but in how much time it takes, in order for it to be extradited, and what problems we face in the process. I say this in the knowledge of these difficulties, because I am also a legal person, but also a man who observes these years. Now that you, too, have come here, at this level, that is to say, to discuss on the basis of a specific subject, I read you what you are saying. You say in the general view of the problem - these are on page 31 - that the economy needs to see issues relating to administration and justice and you are talking about judicial efficiency and speeding up procedures. It's a good title. I'm not saying... But when we go to the content of the title, Mr. Minister, you say: "Improving judicial administration is an absolute priority of the Ministry of Justice and other matters. The Government seeks to establish a modern and effective rule of law - thank you - while ensuring unobstructed access to justice for all social groups and citizens." Thank you twice. "It is a priority to speed up the hearing of cases and procedures - we thank you three times - and to eliminate delays in civil, criminal and administrative procedures." Well, what are you talking about? Are there any civil, criminal and administrative procedures? Fortunately we have a holistic development plan to tell us. Below, how are these going to be? Have you appreciated the change in the Code of Civil Procedure that you made as a prerequisite for the country not to go bankrupt in the summer of 2015 and where the Prime Minister went from a legal club to a legal association and denounced him as opposition? When you became government and finally entered a process to understand where the country is, you had this draft law to bring it here. You brought it, we voted for it. Have you appreciated it? I'm a lawyer for this. Do you have it? Did it work? Should similar steps be taken in other cases, namely for the Criminal Procedure or for the Administrative Procedure? We do not see this here, and since we do not see it here, in your holistic plan, what does the Minister have to say with their titles? It is important that you have not yet prepared what you must have prepared and move by wanting to be judged in words. But, great thinkers have said - one most of them - that you are what your actions show and not what your words say. And in your draft law makes me a real impression - I do not know, of course, if your partners have seen it and indicated it to you - that the Scientific Studies Directorate makes you ten, eleven legal comments, which, if right, the implementation of your regulations on limited companies will be confused, will not know exactly what is laid down in the law. In fact, in some of these cases it suggests that you make specific contributions and perhaps - your partners are not here - give them a mandate to tell you from what the Scientific Research Directorate says about what you should keep. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of all this, I do not have time, and with the tolerance of the President, I will end in two minutes - something Mr Karras has put into you and the lawyers of the Scientific Studies Directorate are putting it here too. They tell you that in Article 2 you are abolishing the possibility of an EIA being of indefinite duration. And in Article 12 you say that if they do not change, i.e. if they do not determine the time by 2021, companies are automatically solved. You are told, in fact, that this can be too hard as a measure. In any case, Mr Karas said so and he confirms it to me here - he has said so in his speech today, but he has told you in committee too - that the purpose of why you want to do that is not apparent. Mr Carras assumes that he has taken me a case - perhaps he has also said that - but you, neither in the rapporteur's report nor in this report have told us why you want the EIAs to be only a limited period of time, you are abolishing the indefinite and you are also providing for the ratification, if they do not do so on their own, to be resolved automatically in 2021. And Mr. Constantinople told you one more thing. Mr. Carras confirmed that, too. We are contributors to a weakness of the draft law in this regard. We say that if you do not plan, in relation to the contributions, to limit the tax obligation on the manager, then you are burdening the EIAs who are making their operation inconsistent, that is to say, inconsistent with the functioning of a corporate form that suits small and medium-sized enterprises. I think that in what my colleagues have put with sufficient authority you are obliged to give us some answers, Mr Minister. I want to close my position with a final thought. Time doesn't exist. And it's not just that your political clock is over. This is a specific political reference made and does not want philosophy. If you measure when you were elected and when your term is over, you understand that the cage is turned upside down, the sand beans are at the bottom of it, whatever assessment and make any decision and make about when elections will be held. Your political clock shows you're towards the end. The time, however, most concerned by the National Representation, is the time of the citizens, the time of the societies. They don't have much time. I would say that they have no time to make available, to wake up the political system, to wake up and finally to make development issues too clear. Since most of Parliament has now understood what the problem is, it also owes answers. As long as you're government, these answers you owe them. You cannot hide behind titles: 'We have made a new EIA law.' We'll vote. 'We are making new EIA law'. The point is what we're doing right now. The question is what changes we make and whether they can help growth. You can't even get your political time done. But I will conclude by confirming your regulation by rewarding it and saying that we want to support it. It is the Kuveli initiative to extend the benefits associated with families, with children killed by the terrorism of people. And why am I taking the floor for that? Mr. Carras said so. I don't need it. However, the Studies Directorate makes you an observation that I think you should reject. It tells you - rightly for its part - that certain issues relating to equality are raised: 'The first child, but not all,' and that there may be complaints, objections in this respect. I would ask you to insist, firstly, because I do not see who can be complained about having a legitimate interest and saying not to make this arrangement by raising a question of unconstitutionality and, secondly, because no judges will tell you that you have violated the principle of equality by looking at a family of a murdered. You're doing well. The Minister of National Defence is doing well. We will support this provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr Pappas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u176	Today's dawn day. Again, like then, it's Tuesday. Tuesday, May 29, 1453, Polis. The City of Constantine falls into one of the hands of barbaric Ottoman Turks and thus closes the cycle of medieval Hellenism. The Greeks have since been singing, in their traditions, in the hymns, in the lamentations, in the legends, pervade their faith, which is also the faith of the Greek nationalists, the nationalists of the Golden Dawn, that again years and years will be ours again. So it is, and so it must be, no matter how sad Marxists and liberals are. We are coming today to talk about a bill of technocratic, at a particular time. We are coming to talk today when the talks on the scepticism between the Foreign Ministers are over. The plan of our betrayal of Macedonia is, unfortunately, in a final stage. Kotzias said "we're done" and Merkel herself supports Tsipras in the downhill of his betrayal. Immediately after the first announcements by the Foreign Ministers, he called on both Zaev and Mr Tsipras, calling, in substance, for them to resolve the latter issues and perhaps use a historic opportunity, as he said. Greece will thus enter into a vortex of actions that will allow the interests of the new world order and its military arm, which is NATO, to open, through the national minority government, the ferry door to the future mutilation of our country by its neighbours, whether they are Skopje, Albanians or Turks. The Golden Dawn, like the overwhelming majority of the Greek people, says "no" to treason. It says 'no' to the tradition of the sacred name of our Macedonia. No compromise for our Macedonia! And that says, unlike the false patriots of the New Democracy, who hypocritically hold a blurred attitude. Sometimes they clearly support betrayal, sometimes they stay with halves. Basically, they support betrayal by staying faithful to their bosses, who are not others from Merkel, NATO, the Americans. Why other than support is the statement by Mr Kumucaku that he said there is no need for the agreement to pass through the House? What else is there but support for treason when Mr Mitsotakis himself says - in quotes - 'the solution is without the name of Macedonia'? So hypocrisy and phony patriotism and hay, I would say, to boast and beneficial, to party submissives. Dare to make a referendum, government, and deserved opposition. You dare make a referendum, ask the Greek people. Make a referendum, you democrats. On 28 May 1979, the Act of Accession of Greece to the European Economic Community, signed in Zappeion, was signed in Zappeion. At that time, the so-called State ruler, Constantine Karamanlis, put Greece on an adventure. He put her on a long destructive course. He did not dare to hold a referendum, as did the other democrat, Mr Simitis, when he put us in the euro. The question is: What is Greece doing today? What's the point? Unfortunately, Greece is in Nadir, in tartars, in an exceptionally bad position, unfortunately having an unworthy leadership - government and Civic Opposition, I mean - a leadership that should be faced with the war in substance and reverse the course towards total destruction. Demographic and illegal immigrants will end the country. If you combine these with the economic crisis, the disaster is certain. Let's get one, one. In the demographics, SYRIZA says the solution is found in poachers, immigrants, as you say. In other words, it contributes to the change of population in our country, to the millions of all-off Muslims - the majority of Muslims are - who, for SYRIZA, will be the young - within introductory - 'Greeks'. And instead of stopping this illegal raid with simple serious moves, such as the draft Golden Dawn law on illegal immigration, you legislate here in measures that facilitate the additional influx of immigrants as you tell them. To come here to Greece, that is, from all the nations of the earth. In serious states, ladies and gentlemen, if you're illegally crossing borders, you're going to jail or you're still being shot. What's going on in Greece? In Greece they give you benefits, free accommodation, care, Greek identity and election right. So that's it! This disgrace must be stopped. We Greek nationalists, the Golden Dawn fighters, want home, want Greek teacher, we want prayer in schools, we want flags, we want Greece respectable to enemies and friends, we want our country back and we will take it. You, Congress and Opposition, the 'democratic arch', as you call yourself, namely the party of the political parties, all bend the heads of the European Union in Merkel and you are forced to ratify its orders, the prerequisites, that is, the eighty-eight new measures, until 14 June, as we informed a moment ago at the Conference of Presidents. So you're doing all this today, eighty-eighty-ninth day when our two soldiers remain captive, hostage to the Andrianoupolis prisons and you have not actually done any action, in any response to this unprecedented Turkish challenge. You do all of this when the people of the southern part of Europe rise up. And it's what scares you, the popular anger. On the other hand, you will, unfortunately, come to an appalling challenge in Komotini tomorrow. There is going to be a challenge in Komotini on Thursday with your blessings, with the blessings of the government. He'll, he says, gather the kemalian opposition party. Where? In Greek Thrace! The free part of Greek Thrace will become a Turkish election campaign! But how low are you going to fall? And what does Mr Prokopis Pavlopoulos say on this matter? Because in neighbouring Italy, the Italian Prokopis Pavlopoulos, the President of the Republic of Marela, a man of the loan sharks of the International Monetary Fund and of the European Union, is making time for his bosses by throwing people's will and will into the trash, saying to us that the elections are useless and that they are finally decided by the rating houses and financial lobbys. In Italy, we have a Mercedes coup similar to the Papademos coup and in order to stay in the euro, they throw the Italian people's vote in the trash. However, the Italian people are rising up, the mayors of northern Italy are already downloading the founders of Matarella from the mayor's towns, in many cities they have already burned their portraits and all Italy is scanning a wave of protest. All we have to say to the Italian fighters, the Golden Dawn, as a Eurosceptic movement, as a popular nationalist movement of Greece, is the wish and encouragement of "Italiani Camerati, vinceremo". Matrela does exactly what Tsipras did with the 2015 referendum and the Greek people's proud "no", proving far-reachingly in the eyes of this people that these Left, but also the Right, the "old-hearted" and "Europols" are the same. They are the two sides of this currency. It is the same with reduced national reflexes and they can both offer part of our country to sell our Macedonia, for the sake of their protectors. You are doing exactly the opposite of what would impose a real patriotic duty. The only concern you have left is how to fade the voice of national resistance, how to fade the Golden Dawn. We arrived at the Internet parlor spot to baptize Saturday's paramilitary attack on the Golden Dawn trade unionists in Perama "Chrystals Attack" and this lie, this slander, to be adopted immediately by SYRIZA, which is ridiculous. It's ridiculous what was written. It's ridiculous the announcement and the ridiculous people who took it off who made it. Comrades, you're being exposed. Be careful! On today's bill, to close slowly, Mr President, I have to say that this bill is directly related to the betrayal of the name of Macedonia, because it highlights how many aspects it has of the national crime you are going to do, at a time when in the Balkans Greece's business deficit is evident. This is an artificial, preserved deficit through the memorandums, a deficit that has made our northern neighbours mainly to Bulgaria a business paradise and has made Greece a business hell. Now, you with Skopje's proclamation as "Macedonia" are opening up another aggression of Aeolos. You will also make Skopje from an economy dependent on Greece, a special economy, i.e. another business paradise at our northern border, further exacerbating the life of Greek businessmen. So what qualifications do you people, who consider the career cholera, will you legislate on the businesses and the EICs you are talking about today? The best thing you can do is leave entrepreneurship in Greece away from your small party interests. Do this and survive. Finally, the truth, although cruel, is undeniable. A limited liability company is you, the government, which, under the laws on the liability of ministers, can never actually give you any responsibility. I would even say that you have de facto invented another type of company, that company with unlimited irresponsibility. The mortar of the memorial and national endlessness will end. You should know that. It's time to end. And it's over with Golden Dawn. Movement and people with faith and determination, we Greek nationalists, the "cursed fascists", the unscrupulous factor, the only reason why home can hope, try and fight, say our "no". No, you won't bend us. We'll take our country back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 8th Municipal School of Voulas. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vassilias Kikilias, MP of Athens, New Democracy, is requesting permission from a few days' absence from May 30th to May 31st 2018 as he will be absent in Cyprus. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u178	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. On the occasion of today's bill, the government presented its new account for the next day, for the new day that the Greek economy and the Greek society are going through more. Basic elements of this account are that on the one hand, first, we come out of the memorials. But how can we, Ministers, come out of the memoranda when all the anti-popular memorial laws in force remain? How can we get out of the memoranda when there is a clear government commitment that the blood-blocked primary surpluses of 3.5% by 2022 and 2% by 2060 should continue in the bicentennial? These are bloody primary surpluses which are also the lever of the anti-grass attack to the infinite. How can we get out of the memoranda when new anti-grass measures have already been voted on and are shortly to be implemented, such as new pension reductions, new tax reductions, and there is a continuation? The government claims that we will of course go out with strong supervision, but at the same time there will be a greater degree of flexibility. But this strong supervision is precisely what defines the nature of policy and is the feeder account in the implementation of anti-popular class policy. This is a strong surveillance that will remain for the next few decades until the State debt threshold is below 70%, until all primary surpluses are implemented - that is, until 2060 and we see, but it is also a strong surveillance determined by the European economic governance rules for surplus budgets for the Member States - the euro area and which is at the heart of the reactionary revision of the provisions and agreements at the euro area level which are being discussed in the next period. The third element of this new phase is that we are now entering the path of sustainable development, of fair growth. First of all, sustainable and long-term growth has started in recent times to be a government's wish since, as all the evidence shows, we will have an uncertain, anemic and temporary recovery, because precisely this uncertainty is determined by the clouds that are concentrating on the global capitalist economy. These clouds are intensified by the trade war between the major capitalist economies, the United States on the one hand and China on the other, and the European Union on the other. These are contradictions and competitions which escalate, clouds which are dense by the escalation of imperialist interventions and in our region, in the wider region. The aggression in Syria that continues, the role of Israel and its aggressive attitude to the Palestinians form a ground that brings closer to the risk of the general war in our region. Imperialist interventions also have their roots in the contradictions between the imperialist forces about who will put rich production sources in hand, in contrast to main protagonists on the one hand, the United States and NATO and Russia on the other. And the government has chosen a camp, it has chosen the role of the signifier of American naval interests. In this context, it is also part of the effort it makes to complete the agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia on Skopje quickly. It is precisely because at the heart of this agreement there is nothing but the pursuit of the integration of the Western Balkans and Skopje into NATO and the European Union to strengthen the presence of these imperialist organisations in the wider region. From this point of view, the roadmap prepared by the Foreign Ministers, not only do they not address the issue from the point of view of ensuring relations between friendship and peaceful coexistence between the peoples, but it is another step in further escalation and intensification of competition, in its logic 'different and reigning'. The JRC also reiterates on this occasion that it will not vote for any agreement that, on its front with the neighbouring country, has precisely the logic of joining NATO and the European Union. The third element of the uncertain and temporary nature is the centrifugal tendencies that are exacerbated in the European Union and in the Eurozone as a reflection of unequal growth within the euro area itself and, above all, Italy, of losing ground in relation to Germany and the other countries. It is precisely because of this decline in the Italian economy that Euroscepticism and the latest developments exist in Italy. In this context we must address Euroscepticism as a current of urban policy to safeguard the parts of capital, which are affected by the policies of the Eurozone and the European Union, a current that is hostile to the interests of the people and the working class. And a confirmation of the hostility, of Euroscepticism for the interests of the working class and the people's populations was also the fascist salute, which the parliamentary representative of the Golden Dawn said a moment ago, reaffirming once again the fascist and nazi character of this culture. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] But, above all, it has nothing to do with the uncertain and temporary nature of capitalist development in our country. Above all, it will be a development, which will be unfair, classic and anti-linguistic. For precisely on the basis of this capitalist development are the overturns in the labour market, overturns in the labour market, which have the stamp and the PASOK and the New Democracy, but also the SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence, reversals in the labour market that serve the interests and designs of the Association of Greek Industries and Enterprises, the BSE, i.e. the capitalists. In the context of these overturns, we have nothing but the abolition of the working and insurance rights of workers. We have the flexibility in the definition of working time, flexible forms of employment, which are adapted to the specific needs of monopolistic groups. And of course, we are dealing with the lowest wage, the abolition of collective agreements, which is essentially about a mechanism for the reproduction of a very cheap labour force, a labour force which is disposable, depending on the aims of business groups. The government claims that it will address the issue of minimum wages by moving on to a discussion with partners to increase it. However, this debate is part of the overall logic of reducing average wages, i.e. the main volume of wages paid by capitalists, so even greater intensity of exploitation. And where does it include this debate on the redefinition of minimum wages? It is part of a suffocating context: firstly, that this debate and this redefinition are not going to affect the strengths of the economy, secondly, that it should take into account the competitiveness of business groups and productivity. These three indicators are nothing but indicators that adapt and undermin the minimum wage in the pursuits of business groups every time to shield and strengthen capitalist profits. So when you take these three axes, it is clear that you tell workers that their wages must be subject to the interests of the capitalists. The fourth factor put forward by the government, Mr Minister, is that it must take account of the level of unemployment. That's not a reactionary conception. In other words, as you say, the workers themselves, the wages of the unemployed, and the workers themselves must accept the reduction in their wages so that more unemployed can be absorbed into part-time jobs with very cheap wages. That is precisely what it is all about and the proof of the new handwriting that you want to put into the Greek society, that is, the confrontation with 800 euros. Those with less than EUR 800 are the non-preferential and those with more than EUR 800 are the privileged. In other words, you are confronting a new kind of social automation among the most poor and the less poor. In that sense, and with that perception, you leave the interests of big capital unavoidable. And not only do you leave to the unavoidable interests of big capital, but you also provide him with simple state support through state funding, whether this is to be done through the Public Investment Programme or through European programmes, through tax exemptions and tax reliefs. The reductions in tax rates first and foremost will relate to the tax rates of public limited companies, the tax rates of capitalist enterprises. You support them through the privatisations in the extended program of Privatizations, the expansion of action and in new sectors and the commercialisation, in essence, of the social needs of the working class and people, through the acceleration of the trend towards concentration and growth of business groups active in the Greek economy at the expense of the self-employed, professionals, craftsmen, small businesses. For this very reason and take advantage of the OSCE toolbox, and in this very case the OSCE toolbox also includes the adjustments you make to the EIA with today's bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So - and I conclude with this, Mr President - the new day, based on the government's narrative, will be a new day for the benefit of capital, while the burdens will continue to be borne by the workers and the people. So on this new day that the needs of the working class and the people will continue to be sacrificed on the altar of competitiveness and capitalist profitability.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, would you like to talk about the amendments now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, I would like to hear other colleagues. If I have to do it now, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u182	I think you need to do so now, because they have to go to the electronic voting. That's why I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u183	I shall refer only to the amendments tabled by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Five testimonies have been filed. The first is Mr Kaklamanis, we discussed her earlier. Third in a row is Mr. Dimitras. We end up accepting Mr Dimitras' amendment - it is on the same subject - with an amendment. I read it in detail: ‘The paragraph 1 of Article 38 of Law 3190 shall be replaced by the following: The Agreement shall be amended by a decision of the Assembly, taken by a majority of at least 1⁄2 of the total number of partners representing at least 65% of the share capital.’. We are reducing the share of share capital, which is 50% now. This amendment is accepted. This is the third amendment tabled by Mr Dimitras, with this amendment that I have read to you. So Mr Kaklamani's first cannot be accepted. We incorporate one of her elements into the third. The second amendment concerns Mr Kegeroglou, Mr Manatis, Mr Papatheodorou, Mr Dannelly, and concerns the question of examination of candidate drivers. I contacted Mr. Spirtzi, who assured me that this content is included in the draft law which the Ministry will bring with urgency in the next few days. This is the briefing I have from the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u184	So it can't be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u185	It can't be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u186	Is she number 1588?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u187	It's number 1585.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u189	Yes, 1585. The fourth, number 1591, amendment by Mr Carras, Mr Katsis, Mr Morfidis, Mr Balaura, Mr Parastatides, Mr Rizos, Mr Selca, Mr Stefou refers to the extension until 30 June 2019 of the operation of the CEE in the border zone, on the Bulgarian border.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u190	Tell us a special number, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u191	Special 35. The amendment is as follows: Article 55 of Law 4447/2016 is replaced by the following: ‘Article 55: the application of paragraph 2 of Article 85 of Law 3842/2010 is suspended until 30 June 2019.’ Finally, there is the amendment with a general number of 1592 and a specialist of 36 from Mr Meikopoulou and Mr Ballis. It is an extension for the transfer of the licence to a professional seller on the grounds of disability. In fact, this amendment calls for the deadline to be assimilated to the extension until 15 January. I will read to you exactly what Amendment No 1592 and Amendment No 36 says: ‘In Article 14 of the bill, a third paragraph is added, which reads as follows: “Article 23(4) of L.4497/2017 shall be replaced by the following: “For the transfer of the licence to a professional seller of an incapacity, the holder of the licence within nine months shall submit the certificate of invalidity to the authorities referred to in paragraph 2 with an attachment to a certificate issued”, etc. There was a time-limit until August, and we like to see the general extension that we are giving until January in order to regulate the whole issue. These are the amendments...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u192	Minister, Amendment No 1591 has been accepted, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u194	And her number 1592?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u196	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u197	In order not to take the floor again, I would just like to say a sentence on what has been said so far. We are talking today about this draft law on the EIA. Obviously the bill is tabled in a more general policy context, but if we are discussing this, as Mr Loverdes has asked, we should discuss this draft law. To say 'we are voting on it, but it does not say anything', it is not right. It is either a positive step and we approve it or it is not a good thing and we reject it. I think it is a positive step. The whole company law must be reformed and reformed and the reform of company law is obviously an important modernisation, which is mentioned throughout the country's economic function. Therefore, it is obviously not of the same importance that a bill might have on much wider issues, but this debate obliges us to evaluate what we are discussing every time. We are taking a step - step by step, what we have to do. It is a positive step and a good thing that it is recognised by almost all the wings of the House. I repeat again that the debate we held both in committee and here was very constructive.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for the bill I have nothing to add to what has been documented and with arguments has been explained by Mr Georgiadis from this step by the rapporteur of the Union of Centres, Mr Georgiadis. It is a positive step in this bill and we support it. Our attitude once again demonstrates, ladies and gentlemen, that we remain faithful to what we have promised the citizens. We will support the right and the right, and we will vote against unfair and unnecessarily. As a parliamentary representative, then, I will take advantage of the step taken by the House to clarify our position with regard to what is coming. The situation in which our country is located does not allow us to be eaten between us. That is why I will accept without comment the opinion of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Kotzias, that 'historic history should not be a prison but a school'. But let's see how good students we're in this room. Question One: In the September 2015 elections to what extent did the Greeks get the skeptical vote? How many were those who, when voting, knew the exact positions of the parties, about the name of our northern neighbours? Did all parties have clear-cut opinions? But even of those who happened to be informed in the relevant planning statements by each party on national issues, how many were those whose logic allowed them to show any confidence in them? How many mutations, how many mutations, how many differentiations, how many cumulations can one justify in just one word? It's self-righteous! No one had in mind the last time the polls stood in this country. Question 2, can you explain why the Greeks have been protesting on the streets for Macedonia and not on the looting that exists? What is the conclusion of this finding? What do you, ladies and gentlemen, understand how Greek citizens think of this simple and undeniable fact? Do you think the Greeks have forgotten that the famous interim agreement of 1995 has never been passed by the Greek Parliament? Do you think the Greeks have forgotten why, although they have had the right to denounce the interim agreement, because of a violation on the part of Skopje, they have never done so? Repeat at every opportunity everyone who has no problem with it, all those who have no interest in finding an important thing to give a name, that Macedonia has given it a long time ago. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what you say. Who gave it? The Greeks never consented to this. The Greek Parliament never voted for the delivery of the term "Macedonia". The poor governments of the 1990s, stemmed from people who are now aware that they should be in prison and the only reason for free movement is the erroneous law on the responsibility of Ministers, these governments have not only failed to safeguard national interests, but have, on the contrary, succeeded in achieving the full despair of the Greeks' opinion. The Greeks have never agreed, therefore, through democratic procedures to what these governments have criminally done in their name. Question 3: Have you understood why abstention is thwarting, why do citizens continue to lose their faith in democratic institutions? Have you realised that the only place in which you are still, the only commitment you have made, the only thing that you invoke the famous continuity of the state is the tradition of Macedonia's name? It's your only firm position. All of you. How do you think you will be able to convince that the reason we have been in this position is because we must allegedly maintain our credibility as a state, honoring the words of air once heard in Bucharest? What credibility are we talking about? Where are our commitments written as a country? Where is that paper that says we've delivered the name since 2008? When was the Greek people asked about this? When did the Greek people agree to this? Who can dispute that this year most Greeks were told that the country has allegedly made some kind of commitments, that it has already retreated since 2008 in Bucharest? What do you have to say, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? What guarantees did you give Bucharest? What did you guarantee? Get the minutes to see who's right. Is it true or is the government lying? In which country is the level of policy it produces seen by the fact that it exports the word 'associated' in Latin? You in this country are the only thing you're constantly invoking is the continuity of the state, to convince us that the struggle has already been lost, that the name has already been delivered. Then, ladies and gentlemen, why all this fuss? Why this whole fair? If we have lost, if we have already surrendered, then why is all this pressure on our part? If it is enough that a hundred fifty countries, a hundred sixty, a hundred seventy have already recognized them by their constitutional name, then why would this precursor also recognize them? What do we need our opinion from Greece after everything is over? What do the Greeks need to sign, ladies and gentlemen, if everything has been decided on? There is no big policy in this country. Your policy is poor. It does not match the culture and history of the Greeks. You have no national doctrine. You cannot, ladies and gentlemen, expect the Greeks to take you seriously when you say that you are seeking to strengthen democratic processes, strengthen the constitutionally guaranteed institutions, when your arguments are exhausted in an agreement that never came to Parliament in 1995, in an agreement that never entered paper in 2008, in an agreement with which no Greek whatsoever agreed. And because they don't take you seriously, they don't go to the polls, you know. How did they come to the conclusion that it does not matter what they vote on the poll, since what is to be done is decided on behind closed doors, without people even having to ask? Question 4: Have you understood why the citizens are closing their phones in the pollsters? The Greeks consider it valuable and no longer give it a gift for some to feed the pieces of the news bulletins and the only in the name of the news channels. Their opinion and opinion are not given by the Greeks anymore, because they know very well that not only will they be respected, but that they will be corrupted, distorted, falsified, and in the end they will be returned in the form of propaganda, leaving them with open mouths from the size of the fragmentation and the lack of shame needed to get the white one and make it black, "no" to do it "yes". Question 5: Many of you claim the snake egg hatch that was hatched in Greece and the snakes came out. But you can't tell us why. Unable to locate. Who kicked that egg? Who's feeding this snake today? Who is responsible for a democracy for prosecuting their snakes and eggs? Who is to blame that some of our fellow citizens seem logical to resort to any kind of extreme act? What has the story taught us, gentlemen of the government? What happens when governments refuse to honour the convention of democracy? What has history shown us how to do the results when other people want and others do the rulers, when other people promise by election and others do the post-elections? The struggle for democracy is not exhausted in the public convictions of violence from where it comes, the struggle for democracy is not won by occasional provocations, arrests and convictions. The fight for democracy is given with arguments, with dialogue, honesty. What do you have to answer the vast majority of the Greeks, who believe that their opinion, who know that their views are not respected, who think they have no access to what is happening to them without them? With what arguments will you explain to them how all those who were happy to see the Mayor of Thessaloniki down on the ground or do you think they were few? Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, there were many who smiled at seeing Mr Boutaris on his knees, the Mayor of Thessaloniki, an institution of democracy. What do you have to say to them? Where is your attempt to deal with them with arguments? You're just avoiding them and talking about snakes and eggs, but about the essence of zero, nothing. And there are many signs of the size of the damage that has occurred in our democracy. Have you wondered, for example, why a private channel that does not present any news reports and does not play news comes first to listen? Those who recognize the importance of citizens being informed in order to be able to cope responsibly with democratic obligations, how do you justify that nine out of ten Greeks when they see news or when they hear radio or when they read a newspaper start to swear uninterruptedly? Is it because the average Greek has a low level, because we are indifferent as a nation? Then how did all those people who've been on the streets and squares in recent years find themselves? Are you aware of the consequences that the country's current Prime Minister canceled with a word, with the word 'absolute', the hopes, the dreams of hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens? Do you understand the damage that we cause when we urge our young people to forget the Lambrakis? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One and a half minutes, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are advertising that we are too close to the scorpion solution. I invite you to think well about what this means, not about the few people who care about themselves, but about the many, about those who hurt what they see. Have you wondered how many Greeks believe that we have lost our independence as a state? Are you sure you'll be able to control the Greeks' reaction? Eventually you who rule this place know the people you rule? Any alleged solution of the scop that will deliver the word "Macedonia" will cause reactions that the unreliable political system will not manage and thus your government dreams of clean exits and pillars of stability and development will be trampled in the squares and streets. Social cohesion in Greece has endured the pillaging of life savings, has endured the raid on wages and pensions. It bears the dissolution of the social state. He withstand the pressure of refugees and migration flows. It bears the shame of the memorials. He bears the courage of the politicians who grabbed everything they could. He bears the despair of the institutions. See if you will now withstand the reactions of all Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I think that both the work of the committee and today's very extensive debate in plenary have shown that this bill is a step towards modernising company law. It is a step towards facilitating business in today's data. We are escaping from the old framework that has been used by the companies. We take into account reality. I think that the Minister and the Ministry will in general take serious account of the misinterpretations of many aspects of facilitating the conversion of EIAs to private capital companies and the assimilation of insurance burdens. There was in the past this peculiarity - the few years that IKIs have been in existence - that all the partners in the EIA are in charge of insurance contributions, while the private capital companies only have to make an insurance contribution is the manager. This creates disadvantages and has made, of course, other reasons - inactive and inactive - the limited liability company. I would also like to explain - the Minister has given some explanations - of the role of insurance companies in granting guarantee letters to companies. I suppose we have a document, an opinion from the Bank of Greece, with which the Minister gave a favourable opinion and referred to a law. However, there remains a gap, at least in my view - I may be wrong - that I do not know by what mechanisms a supervisory mechanism is provided for in this operation of insurance companies, which is essentially a banking operation. There is the diffuse common impression that in recent years and before judgment there have been many insurance companies with weak or false reserves, which have been afflicted both by the insurance market and the credibility of the insurance industry and, above all, by many citizens who have been customers of their services. Competition can certainly benefit any field of the economy, but it should be fair and good, quality. If anyone without reserves, without capital adequacy, to obtain the commission, enters the guarantee market, the state should have the supervisory mechanisms on alert, in constant readiness, to be able to protect the public and the company that will receive this guarantee. I think these conditions and conditions are known to the Ministry, and I am sure or at least hopefully that in a series of other arrangements - but immediately, before it comes into force in white - the state through the Ministry of Development will establish a transparent, simple and operational framework for the supervision and operation of this role of granting guarantee letters, possibly in the next bill, which you have planned in a relatively short time. A more general political criticism has been made by the opposition parties. Let us go from the general, European picture, the great picture, history, our neighbourhood, to our specialist, to our own. The Minister for Development, Mr Drasakis, gave adequate answers to objections, which probably did not have sufficient arguments. First of all - and rightly so - a reference to the day of memory today, on 29 May. However, on the occasion of an unfortunate statement by Mr Mitsotakis and the repetition by his party of the relationship between memory, history and who can remember something if he has not been born, I would say that the public dialogue and the hunting of the shallow line, which is unfair not only to Mr Mitsotakis, is so unfair to the political world that now speaks either misuse of evil, unreliable arguments based on history, or ignoring history, plunging into the world of amnesty and oblivion. When we have historical anniversaries, then, it is good to realize that history is just to teach, but it is mainly to make us better societies of the great messages, the great leaders, the great philosophers, the great creators. One of the rapporteurs - if not the father - of the philosophy of history, Hegel, said that he who does not know the story is doomed to repeat it. Let him hear this and the Chief of Officer Relating, who puts his historic memory after his birth, and anyone else who makes an asymmetrical and asymmetrical historical relativism, a working use of history, taking examples, actions or legends from the past to today, without any possibility of adjusting creative and looking to the future. Mr. Kefaliannis is absent now, but he is decent and realizes that there is a dialogue in this Chamber several times. There have been some bugs and some of them have already been written in the media about the situation in Italy. They are similar to the two parties that claimed a government order - legitimate, majority in the electorate - with SYRIZA or ANEL. It is also an unfortunate comparison and shows not only the shallow knowledge of who it is where, in what place, but it shows, above all, a rush to smuggle everything in our own provincial horizon. What we see in Italy is that one party promises mass deportations and has come out with the hard anti-immigration policy that has emerged and the extreme right in Austria and with which Victor Orban also celebrates in Hungary, that is the one characteristic. The other party, the Five Star Movement, has some features which, to some extent, are new to the European political sphere and any direct comparison with others is precarious. What we see in Italy, however, is the ever-established incompatibility of the popular will with what we call a 'European plan'. Unfortunately, a message that this crisis sends to the Italian voters is that they do not have to keep it an institutional framework or the establishment to listen to the popular verdict. It is bitter and it is also a glimpse of a more general finding of how policy is being conducted in these days. Politics can claim as its first pillar and absolute pillar the sovereignty and independence of states, but only within the country, at national level. In the economy, unfortunately, we see the shocking scope of the economy and the humiliation of local initiatives. In other words, we have a lasting asymmetry between economy and politics, which unfortunately in Europe takes irrational features. The opinion and the opinion and will, expressed by the citizens, are often not taken into account, especially after the European project has been dismantled. Remember how many referendums and how many elections have taken place in the last fifteen or twenty years in Europe over the future of the European project and have not been heard. And that - by speaking, not at the moment - we see how the electorate moves to hard stops, irrational, extreme right, racist, attitudes that include the message for a enclosed world and a world of violence toward the next, even the roommate. It is also very sloppy and very challenging to us in Greece that we have been through an eight-year-old adventure, in the context of the great European adventure, which Europe has been in crisis, which the Eurozone has been in crisis, and Greece has been its most painful victim, to see what people are talking about and why, on what terms, we can even draw conclusions for our own future. In any case, this concerns the great picture. In our own words, I would just like to make two remarks in a revulsion by Mr Loverdos, who criticises a three and a half-year government, but we have not heard any self-criticism - and this gives rise to a melancholy - about how Greece has been governed over the last 40 years, about how it has been found without a modern, functional and effective way of judiciary. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For a minute, Mr President, I would ask for your leniency. Today we are talking about these things and the modernisation of company law, the report on the situation of justice by the European Commission, which examines the time for judiciary in civil and commercial matters, has been published. We regrettably saw that Greece is a champion and, to a first and second degree, a judiciary and time for awarding civil and commercial matters is more than three times more than five times the average in the other European countries. When we ask for growth, when we ask to attract foreign investments, when we ask to encourage the Greek businessman, the Greek professional to invest in his work, we should be able to provide him with an environment of security and certainty, of low risk, so that he can calculate his work, such as the North and the other countries that attract investment, both domestic and foreign. Register: not available. For twenty-five years we have been trying and not completed. The Forest started with this government, and it goes on. There are no times in the civil, administrative and commercial courts, in these cases, ensuring that any citizen or businessman is able to enter a court proceedings and come out before he has ageed or been financially destroyed. There are no integrated and specific spatial frameworks. The sectors are starting now. There is no administration that is in line with the needs of society and the economy. Furthermore, there is - and this is a challenge for our own government too - a simple, clear and operational tax system that will help citizens and businesses. These should have been over the past decades, since the 1990s, when we entered the monetary union and the convergence race with European averages. We're unlucky. We are far from the European average. We have lost the convergence race. We need to get back to her. The burden of all the political class and all the political forces is to speak boldly and boldly and in words that may hurt certain minorities, of those who do not offer the development of the place. We need to build another administration, another justice system and a productive web that rewards quality, honesty and offering to society as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs and the special speakers have asked for the floor for a minute by Mr Meikopoulou, Mr Athanasios and Mr Amyras and Mr Amyras and for five minutes by Mr Carras. We'll go in a row. Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u203	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I think we should welcome, as a political system, the common ground which has been formed during the meetings in committee and in today's debate in plenary. The majority agreed that the bill was moving in the positive direction. I also think that we should welcome the fact that, in the form of some ten legislative improvements, several of the remarks made by the counter-population have been incorporated. I think, therefore, that on key issues relating specifically to Greek entrepreneurship and the Greek economy, a common behaviour has been formed in this bill, which is good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to make it clear what was said in the House, Mr President. Regarding the issue of the name of FYROM, the name "Macedonia" for the New Democracy, as its President, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has repeatedly said, is unnegotiable. In fact, we have repeatedly called for the Constitution to be reviewed and possibly any agreement to be included in the type of an international convention. As far as the colleague, who said: “Why are we talking about Macedonia now, after the name has been established?”, I reverse the question and say: If it has been established, why are we talking about it? It is therefore an issue that both the Skopje and our allies are pressing for. Of course, I said that it was the position of the New Democracy that I made clear. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. Now, with regard to the issue mentioned by Mr Xydakis, I will agree with him that we really are not proud of the administration of justice at the pace at which it is going. All governments have made great efforts to speed up the administration of justice. With the amendments that I have had the honour of presenting to the House, as far as criminal justice is concerned, we have an acceleration. Political and administrative justice are still delaying. Greeks, lawyers and citizens have not realised that alternative forms of justice are the most appropriate. Arbitration has not progressed. These are issues that we can raise in another debate. However, I agree at first with the fact that we do need intervention. I would now like to say something, Mr President, about the progress of the economy and the memorandum, because the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis, has mentioned this. We need to make this clear: Listen, the important decisions on the Greek programme of debt relief will be taken at the last minute. That's cleared up. In fact, as you saw on Thursday at the Eurogroup, in the debate between the International Monetary Fund and Berlin on the other hand, there was no mention of what measures will be taken to alleviate the debt burden. Now, he said we were coming out of the third memorial. Yes, but the measures taken are nothing more than a fourth memorandum. We say it's a hidden memorial. You call it a 'additional memorandum'. Because, if it is not a memorandum, what are pension cuts, the abolition of reduced VAT on our islands, the reduction of tax, the disappearance of the CSCE? In any case, where did Mr Tsipras go on the red line in December 2015, saying 'we put a red line on the pensions'? That's to make things clear. Mr President, with regard to the legislative improvements tabled by the Minister, I must say that we have not been very accustomed by the ministers to go into the comments made by the members of the committee in the committee responsible. This is positive and we believe it to the Minister, who has indeed seen in depth the proposals that we have made and have indeed come about with good legislative improvements, which have changed the position of the parties in too many articles, which we shall also be voting in favour of. I wish, Minister, that all of you imitate you. I am referring in general and in distinctive terms. I would just like to turn to one amendment, because the rest I have discussed and said it in my main speech, Mr President. I am going to refer to Amendment No 1584 and to specific number 30, which allows the State budget to be repaid by way of derogation from any other general or specific provision of debts by the general government institutions to suppliers of electricity, which have become due by 30 April. The sums to be paid from the state budget tells us the General Accounting Office of the State - the Minister for Finance is not here - on payment may - say - reduce, on a case-by-case basis, the appropriations entered for transfer payments to the general government bodies. "Possible" provides - and is simply Greek - the possibility of not cutting evenly, i.e. there is an unreasonable level of haircut. I am going to read you out of the general report again: 'These provisions which are being cut off without the corresponding amounts being spent on the appropriations entered for transfer payments to the abovementioned entities'. These amounts, in other words, have been credited to the institutions - so I understand at least these Greeks - have not been used to repay the unpaid obligations? Is that what the Minister tells us? Of course, the General Accounting Office of the State says that these debts cannot be determined precisely, but the evidence available shows that they will be at least EUR 48 million. In other words, there is an additional cost of at least EUR 48 million for something that they have already taken credit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u206	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, I would like to submit the document of EFSA, the opinion on insurance companies, including the text of the Bank of Greece on this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u208	Good, Minister. Mr. Carras has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr President, I must say that the submission of the opinion of the Bank of Greece on the question of insurance companies does not help us. We have no time to see it, nor to judge it, nor to get informed. The statement is therefore unreasonable because it comes three minutes before the vote. Regardless of this, I would like to be very brief in relation to the debate, which preceded it. I feel that Mr Drasakis, when he burned down that this was not a fourth supplementary memorandum to the fourth evaluation, was also addressing me, who had made use of the term in my first speech this morning, because he did not, says the Minister, have measures and is the exit from the memorandum. It makes me remind the Government of the following which I do not say is said by the European Commission, which, on Thursday, yesterday morning, issued a document entitled 'Supplementary Memorandum of Cooperation - Fourth Review'. I am not one of those who say it is a new memorandum, but I say this: it speaks of the "technical support" and I quote from the official translation: "The success of the recovery will require the protracted implementation of the agreed policies for many years, which makes it necessary for the political commitment and the technical capacity of the Greek administration to offer to this end the authorities are committed to making full use of the technical support available". If that is not a confession that the set of measures that have been given priority will be implemented, I do not think I can invoke anything else. Then, of course, we made a criticism and I and Mr Loverdos. I see an indistinct view of Mr Pitsirla saying: 'Well, since we are reforming company law, do you not enjoy it?' But we always have the right to criticism and comment. We've got this. So you cannot, Minister, say that we should be pleased. We are making the criticism and making it consistently, as we have shown. We do it without crowns and we try to improve this legislative work. I come to the last and most critical. And I do not want to refer to Mr Xydakis' comment, who said 'but Mr Loverdos was not before a government? Why does he blame us?’, if I understood it correctly. I will see and say that three and a half years you are government, we waited for your position and your results. If we go directly to the bill now, I would like to say something that has given me a great deal of thought and I will briefly bring back this issue: do we want to maintain the form of limited companies in the form of a double majority? The acceptance of Mr Dimitrak's amendment confirms that. You say, Minister, that they will be fifty plus the people, the members of the company, plus 65%, if I'm not mistaken, of the share capital. It therefore confirms that it is maintained. But I read the public consultation report - which you have given us - and which says, 'The working group has chosen to retain elements that separate the EIA from other types of companies, for example a double majority'. But there is no reason why the working party is insisting on this point. Regardless of this, I am pleased to hear that you will accept the transformation of companies, but this transformation would be very brief for the reason that, as we have pointed out from all sides in the House, it is unreasonable to maintain an EIA when all its members are obliged to make insurance contributions as if they were directly engaged in business. That's what I mean. There are RES partners, who have no involvement and simply expect a small dividend, a small profit or once financed, and today most are loss-making. So when we insist on maintaining the insurance contributions for all and not only for managers, and they are now here - at least in time or defective - the change in the company type, I think that we do not contribute and should be speeded up. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, my last point and the only one is that, in relation to the people's markets - I say this and I am ending, Mr President - I have not heard any real answers about what will actually happen in the future, how it will be dealt with, in addition to an extension that we are seeking and which perpetuates a problem and makes it unresolved for the future. I have not heard how the sellers will be treated, the producers of the people's markets in order to demand insurance and tax information, when it is very easy to resolve this too, in the sense of referring to the general provisions of the Public Revenue Code and claiming the tax authority and the insurance institutions their rights and incomes from workers on the public markets, but without depriving them of the right to work. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Pitsirla, previously in a debate I had with Mr Drasakis and in exchange for some arguments about business taxation, he questioned what I referred to in the debate, that your Government has decided to reduce the taxation of casinos. The more profits they earn, the less their taxation. He said your government didn't introduce this measure, but it just changed the limits. That's not true. You were invited by Mr Drasakis to have his information. So I give you the information and if you have anything different to tell me. I'm really curious to hear it. Before Law 4512, in the medium term, 2018, which the majority of SYRIZA - ANEL voted a few months ago, a single tax rate of 35% was applied for casinos operating in the country. With the signature SYRIZA - ANEL, it has been decided to reduce the taxation of casinos while their profits are increasing. For profits of up to EUR 100 million, tax reduction from 37% to 20%. But let's not tire you. It is up to 8% the casino tax from 37%, that is, twenty-nine whole units below, when at the same time the free traders are taxed for profits of up to EUR 20 000 to 22%, for profits of EUR 20.001 and up to EUR 30 000 their tax goes to 29%, from EUR 30.001 to EUR 40,000, and for EUR 40.001 and above the tax goes to 45%. How does it turn out that the previous ones also reduced casino taxation when casinos had bigger profits? Just the reverse has happened. So I ask the Minister to clarify this to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, I would like the floor for two minutes before the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u214	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u215	I would like to comment on something said by the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Pitsirlas, in his position and something said by the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Xydakis. Mr. Carras told you. We have an experience between ourselves in plenary working in a committee room - I do not remember what draft law - and a second one is today, which we can discuss. That's for the best. You cannot, however, say 'or vote or vote'. This is an old tactic, and when it comes to development issues it doesn't work. Especially on these issues, which are the alpha and the omega for tomorrow of the Greeks and Greeks, the debate in the House also wants a contribution. Mr. Carras explained why we're positive. In my speech, although I am a parliamentary representative, I have even remained on legislative matters relating to a number of provisions. I have even supported provisions of the draft law which do not concern the EIA, but which are in a right direction. What does that mean, Minister? That I have to accept as your alibi that you have been conducting development policy three and a half years and development policy is Article 2, Article 3, Article 4 of a draft law that facilitates the daily lives of the EIAs and nothing more? It would be what it should be if you heard our own misgivings and went to the logic of the IKIs as well as to the issue of the contributors. The administrator. Mr. Carras and Mr. Amyras told you so. The limited liability companies also have the legacy of the past. Since 1955, Mr. Karras has been quoted as a hopeful corporate form. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, since the banks started asking for personal guarantees from the heterogeneous partners, and they were responsible not for the capital of their participation, but for the entire liabilities of the company, the EIA lost its usefulness. The legislator of 1955 could not predict this development, but it overturned its original plans. As far as SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Xydakis, who said "and you did not?", he is right, because they are things we did not do. But the logic that the next one does what the previous one has not done and moves forward is good reason. Did this good sense come up with it? I leave half the areas of government action on which the government is operating today is based on our own laws. I'm leaving this. Let's go talk about development. The reform of the Code of Civil Procedure, we had done so. You were simply forced by the troika to vote on it. Did I tell you that you appreciated her usefulness? It's been a law passed for three years. I can tell you where he's benefited and where he's not. Have you? We had made genuine development changes. We established classes for foreign students outside the European Union with tuition fees. Now we'd have two thousand of those students. Mr Baltas has disappeared and no next Minister for Education has implemented them. We did a lot, but we didn't do more very serious. We did not extend this reformist effort. You guys shouldn't have taken the dog and moved on? What were we judging you about, which we're legalizing about? After three and a half years you've been making programme statements. That's not right. This content was made up of our own intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, I would like to speak on a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u218	What do you want, Mr. Xydakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u219	I should like to say a second word, like other parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u220	You do not want to be second-guessed, you want someone to comment on, because the prototypes and the abbreviations are over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u221	I did not do a dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u222	Anyway, Mr. Xydakis. You will now speak and then the Minister will close. Here, Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u223	Because Mr Carras and Mr Loverdos have also been mentioned in an observation, I think that the whole context has been misunderstood. I ask first of all for people who have belonged to governments of the last fifteen, twenty, twenty-five years - and even in the years before bankruptcy, crisis, recession and social distress - to make self-criticism about what, at the time of growth and rising, is being done, namely major reforms. At the time of the fall, all the reforms bring about even greater pain, although many of them are necessary and must be done. I said specific things. Does our country have a register? It is the only country in the European Union that does not. It's a development factor, it's a prerequisite. Forestry a year ago we voted and forest maps have moved around 65% to 70%. I talked about justice, and I brought an example. The years of the crisis and the constitutional restriction do not allow you to change the way in which justice is given from one day to the next. Mr. Athanasios was Minister of Justice, Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Karras are experienced lawyers and they know it. I said about the tax system. In that, yes, we do self-criticism. It's one of our great tasks. However, a system of taxation in the 1980s with presumptions of 15-year-old cars burdening the unemployed or the semi-employed, we did not fix it. We found them a legacy, we have to change them. And one last. We had this whole optimism of the 1990s, the great modernisation, the convergence with Europe, the markets are voting on us, the stock exchanges, the credit over-expansion, as well as the mixture of over-optimism and the uncertainty of the 2000s. Then it was the time of well - being or furnished prosperity, then it was the time of selfishness and of constructed illusions. Now is the time for bitter consciousness, dementia. Yeah, we're all together, but we're not all of us with the same share and with the same rate of grief and amnesty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr. Xydakis. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u225	I will be brief, Mr President. Mr Loverdo, obviously I do not deny and question the right to criticism. It's obvious. I made a comment on something you said, which is different. I will avoid temptation to enter the general debate as I have done so far. We are discussing a specific bill and I will continue to speak on it. You said, "You are bringing us the change in the EIA law here. Very nice, very good thing to change. But let's see what change this is." What a change that is, we judge it and it seems that we all agree - or most of all - that it is a good change. That's all I've been talking about. We are judging the content of a specific initiative. This initiative, therefore, has positive characteristics. There's no reason to tie them down. That is what I referred to and nothing else. Now, obviously, this bill is the first step and the next one will follow. Mr Carras, I have explained twice - and I insist on this - that it is no coincidence that the opportunity given for two years to convert the EIA into IKE has not been exploited. There's no way to do this. That's why it didn't happen. If we say it now, we will just repeat a wish. There's no way. There is no framework for transformations in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u226	The case law, Mr. Minister,...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u227	Wait a minute, I mentioned it to you. It's the case law. It is not a solution to every law in which we are talking about a type of company putting at the end a paragraph on transformations. We will soon bring a serious law that regulates and gives the opportunity. We'll solve the problem, because we have to solve it. There's no doubt about it. Following the vote on the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Finance, a ministerial decision will be adopted, as they inform me of the Ministry of Finance, in which there will be the list of all legal persons and the other information requested. Finally, as far as casinos are concerned, the law has been passed lately. There are two different sizes. Apart from this is the rate of profit taxation and, in fact, the public participation in a percentage of the turnover. The changes made took place in the second part. They did not take place on the issues of the rates of profit taxation. This will all apply from 2022 onwards. There's a GGR technique and how it's calculated. The logic of the law was to facilitate the installation of large, complex casinos and resorts which do not exist and which from a GGR limit and above - very large - will enjoy these advantages. It is quite different to the logic of the law that has been passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development is adjourned: 'Amendment of Law 3190/1955 on Limited Liability Companies and Other Provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u229	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u230	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u231	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Amendment of Law 3190/1955 on Limited Liability Companies and Other Provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u233	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Have the Minutes of Monday 19 March 2018, Thursday 22 March 2018, Friday 23 March 2018 and Monday 26 March 2018 been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u234	The minutes of Monday 19 March 2018, Thursday 22 March 2018, Friday 23 March 2018 and Monday 26 March 2018 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-29-S1-commons.u235	With the consent of the House at no time of 17.28' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 30 May 2018 at 10.00, on the subject of the Parliament's work, legislative work: a) only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Following the Agreement between the Education, Scientific and Cultural Organisation of the United Nations (UNESCO) and the Government of the Hellenic Republic with regard to the establishment of the Centre for Integrated and Interdisciplinary Management of Water Resources at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, as Category 2 Centre under the auspices of UNESCO; and b) only discussion and vote at the beginning of the articles and of the entire draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Move the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the World Health Organization, acting through the Regional Office for Europe", which is responsible for the establishment of the Hellenic Ministry of Health and Refugeion, with a view to the establishment of the Hellenic Ministry of Refugement and Refugement of the Hellenic Refuge between the Hellenic Republic and the Hellenic Republic.
