ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Monday, May 7, 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1571-27-2018 topical question by Mr Christos Stakouras, Member of Parliament, to the Minister of Finance, on "Financing actions from criminal actions against the Greek public and making available for social purposes". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1575-27-2018 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Messology Camp." 3. The 1582/30-4-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christou Hatzishava to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on 'Two meters and two weights'. 4. The 1557/26-24-2018 topical question of the Thessaloniki Parliamentary I, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Conservation of the beneficial provisions of Law No.4368/2016". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1572-27-2018 topical question by MP Kavala of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "The principle of children's condolences - Special Preparatory Committee on the reform of family law". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1581/30-4-2018 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "The need for an initiative to strengthen the anti-crime policy following the recent multiple phenomena of violent crime in residentials and the lifting of the unfair nature of the acts of victims' reaction". 3. The 1545/24-2018 topical question of the Member of the Republic of Attica, Mr Athanasios Bourras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "An increase in the wage values of the simple use of hayalou". 4. The 1546/24-2018 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, New Democracy, Jason Fotilla, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Revelations on CEDEFOP that expose the head of the Ministry of Health". 5. The 1538/23-44-2018 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need to increase military service". 6. The 1539/23-44-2018 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on "About the participation of bishop soldiers in a party course of the JRC". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 1517-17-4-2018 topical question by MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Restoration of problems in the operating rooms of the new wing of the Chios Hospital". 8. The 1518-17-2018 topical question by H' Vice President of Parliament and Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance about the problems 4 cm. Lending and lending operations. 9. The 1511/16-2018 topical question by MP Laconia of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Duration of patients from EKAB to intensive treatment units for private clinics". 10. The 1510/16-2018 topical question of the New Democracy MP Mr.Yoyaka to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Project for the abolition of the Business Administration of the Epirus TEI and the operation of an Intercultural Communication Division in Igoumenitsa". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 3727/23-2-2018 by PASOK-DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Bargiotas to the Minister of Health, on "The increase in measles cases is worrying". Before entering the topical and urgent debate, I have a few communications to make to this House. Firstly, the Standing Committee on Social Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "Measures to promote the Assumption and Adoption Institutions". Secondly, the Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Recommendation of a Reflection Body of the City of Athens". Thirdly, the Special Standing Committee on the Environment and the Subcommittee on Water Resources shall submit their reports in accordance with Rule 43a(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The relevant reports will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting. [[The reports referred to above are in electronic form in the archives of the Special Permanent Committees Directorate.]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Four topical and urgent questions will be discussed in this sitting. Start with the first 1569-27-2018 top-level question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary of the New Democracy, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the Hellenic Space Organisation. Mrs Asmakopoulou's question will be answered by the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr Nikolaos Papapas. Mrs. Asimakopoulou, you have the floor for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much. Mr President, Minister, he recently resigned after just a month at the wheel of Greek NASA, the distinguished teacher and scientist, Mr. Stamatis Krimizis. He gave the public a letter of resignation, which was described by us as a trick in your efforts. In the letter it says that practically with your own decisions you have canceled the reason for the existence of the ELDO, making it an unreliable bureaucratic structure that could become the subject of any political leader, in your case, you. He accused Mr McGlara, who calls himself a'space bag', of trying to make him his liar. He talked about actions without evaluation, without merit, away from international standards and personal agendas. And as far as the programme you have announced for microprocessors is concerned, it has left a peak with the characteristic phrase that we all know 'follow the money'. I think we're not going to argue about Mr. Krimise's qualifications. He is a prominent educator, with a bright course in the United States, a member of the Athens Academy, on a space course in both NASA and internationally. A pioneer investigator. And you chose to disapprove him and put him through public for his resignation. Have you wondered how he understood so quickly a distinguished scientist that ELDO is not going to serve his purposes? Mr. Magaras, who is a political scientist, said that this distinguished scientist did not understand the substance. I will disagree, Minister. Understood the substance. The essence was to use him as a scientific and political alibi to build the ELDO, which you really intended to become a party paradigm for the recruitment of others and a mechanism for the non-transparent management of available funds, international, European and Greek. And the next president, Mr. Protopippas, rather on the basis of the wonders of St. Porphyrios Kaavlokalyvitis, and rather on the basis of the graphical posts on Facebook, he also took over by Mr. Krimizis in turn. And I ask you. First of all, what do you have to say about all this, Minister? Secondly, what you have to say about the specific position of the new President, which also has a role to play in the 'HELLAS SAT'. What is his official role in ‘HELLAS SAT’? Why was he placed without a contest? The next president will also be placed without a contest? I ask why I've heard of certain plans you already have to replace him. And how is all this going to go from now on? In conclusion, and I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President, - in the second part of my speech, we will analyse the substance of the way in which ELDO has to operate - and I would like to ask you, and I would ask you for your reply so that we do not disagree, but to see the matter in depth, to invite Mr Krimizis and the new president and CEO to analyse all these issues, to come to light and to make our conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much Mrs Asmakopoulou. Minister, you have three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that I am very happy, because at the moment we are discussing what should be the essence of the country's space policy and which persons and on what terms they should serve it. I want to start by saying that Mr Krimizis, obviously, has a respectable scientific work and, precisely because he is so, actively involved in the planning of the political and establishment of the Greek Space Agency. He had very good ideas about the establishment plan, which we very much adopted and, unfortunately, after two meetings he found himself disappointed and wanted not to go any further. Let me tell you this: First, no country leaves the democratically-organised state from its obligation to design space policy. And in NASA, in which some have already served in the United States of America, there is the relevant space policy council. It is the interministerial body in which the state's priorities are being planned. As far as merits are concerned, which you, unfortunately, have mentioned, I shall say that I am very sorry. People who run the Space Organisation are people of unknown prestige in their area and do not need either the Pope, the Asmakopoulou, the Tsipras, the Mitsotakis, or the Krimizis to get their approval to go. I will give you an example, because you mentioned the micro-food programme. The micro-dollar programme concerns four Greek universities. Is the reproach for dignity addressed to the people who will serve it? Is it addressed to teachers and researchers from the Greek universities who have developed a microprocess programme, but to the needs of other countries? You are now coming to tell us - and you have said so in the same position, and it seems to me - that we have a party policy and we appoint a party and you are also releasing us because the new President of the Space Agency is religious. I don't know if both can be done. I reserve to answer the others. I will just say, to record from my first place, that money management is not unfounded, but I think they were just said to create impressions. The Space Agency doesn't yet have VDUs. It should be its first administrative board to run and complete the procedures too quickly. That's not what happened. However, precisely because it has not received any VAT, it has neither received nor managed a euro. I therefore think that the attempt to create impressions in this case falls into the void and falls with deafening noise. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I am building my second speech on the basis of yours, Minister. I start with your comments on the organogram and international experience in the United States, so people can understand what you have created here. So you have created a structure based on your law that is ELDO, while all space issues before the General Secretariat of Research and Technology managed them. You didn't like the management of the General Secretariat. You took it to your Ministry and made it with your law, Law 4508/2017, ELDO. The ELDEO is supposed to manage space policy and also represents us in European and international organisations. That's what Mr. Krimizis should do to ELDO. In a chapter of your law - we told you - you put the subscriptions and the programmes that you manage in your Ministry. Hence, you also set up the council to which you refer. Yeah, there's somewhere else in the world. And after all this, Minister, you have come with a ministerial decision of your own, 3095/2018, and you have also set up a committee for the processing and evaluation of issues of our involvement in the European Agency where the Secretary-General is responsible. So we have an old General Secretariat, a ministry, an agency, a board and a committee doing the same thing. But in a strange way everything ends up with you, Minister. That was from the outset our criticism and that is still it. I'm going to the second part of the microprocess program. I say it very much. It is a very good idea for the microprocess programme. Secondly, we don't have them with the universities. Thirdly, I have spoken with Mr Makarios and Mr Sanchez, whom I have known for many years, at the Si-Cluster. It's an excellent idea. We don't have them, Minister. We have it with you and Mr. McGlara. Because you are trying to manage the funds without any strategy and no planning. I have two questions here to ask you: Where will these be financed? You have said from the NRP. However, there is no technical bulletin at the moment. They have not actually joined the NRP. You've made an announcement. I am learning - and, if you will, but carefully - that there is an internal document with which the secretary asks you to commit equivalent funds for the first part of the Public Investment Programme accordingly. Why do you ask for state money if you have - as you have announced in public - ensure Community money from the NRP? That's the answer I want. As to whether the new president is religious, I asked you whether he has legal or institutional incompatibilities, what his position is at 'HELLAS SAT'. So he will manage the money for microprocessors, and he is currently presided over - at least that's what he looks like outwards, he's a CEO, so I know him in the committees, and I have spoken with him, and I have his card, disprove me with that - of a company, HELLAS SAT, which deals with the same subject. So, is it incompatible? Being religious is not inconsistent. I ask about his institutional position. Finally, you put forward this justification that you have not collected a single euro and that you have no VAT. I am overcoming the level of incapacity to have announced all this creation for so long and not to have made sure it starts to work. I'll put that aside. What kind of argument is that, Mr. Pappa? Why does it remind me of Mr. Kammenos's argument when we caught him on his back and told him about the Saudis, who told us - what? - he didn't make it. You didn't have time, yeah. Because there are some gentlemen like Mr Krimizis and there is a public criticism with whom we stop or try to put brakes on your plans. I repeat, because you have not answered this question: let us make a commission come by Mr Krimizis, that the new Prime Minister should come and tell us not about his public posts on Facebook, which he says - I am sorry, Mr President - 'European caps' - I do not care about these graphics - but about the substance. To come and tell us what plans he's got from now on about ELDO. Why don't we listen to them? Let Mr. Maquis, Mr. Sanchez come back and explain. If Mr. Haritsis can come and tell us about the NRP and your secretary can tell us if there is this internal document. I am now waiting for your preliminary answers, and I hope that you will not succeed and that you will come to a committee to discuss these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much. I cannot, Minister, comment a little on the'rear-back' with Mr Kammenos. I think there's been a lot of goat on the other backs right now. Let's stay on these shrimps. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u8	Krimizis, Mrs Asimakopoulou, has served in the country's delegation to the European Space Agency under the then Secretary-General of Research and Technology. So I don't understand why noise. In his term of office as a member of the country's delegation to the European Space Agency, he was under the Secretary-General of another Ministry. So I don't understand what the noise is. Secondly, of course, we must go to the committee and discuss everything and put it in the Minutes, no problem at all. See what's happened, what's not happened, the new ones coming. I urge you to reread the law, because the other political forces voted for it. You did not vote for him on the grounds of my credibility. All right, that, of course, is something that I think is incapable of political dialogue. In other words, whatever legislation comes, you will have a permanent argument that I personally am the unreliable one and you will not vote for it. This is an original, I think, way of making an opposition, but in any case. The new President has absolutely no incompatibility. He is a man who has served Greece's satellite policy, a man who insisted that the criminal sale of the satellite should not happen along with OTE. I think I would like to propose to you in the course of this debate, which I see enriched, that you meet the universities as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u9	I've already asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u10	I'm glad you're saying you're welcome to the micro-food programme. So because you have welcomed it, and because you too admitted that there is still no technical card, I take it as one assent that it is impossible for any fund management to have been managed. This also has to be written in the Minutes. So I'd tell you to meet the universities, meet the Department of Defense. Of course you have very high tons of criticism to the Minister of Defence, but it would make you much wiser to meet, where the representatives of the Armed Forces would explain to you and the political leadership of what it means to exploit the country's satellite capabilities, which, unfortunately, had been thrown into the ball of the unpurpose. It will, I think, be very enlightening and it will make you, too, be more creative in the way you exercise opposition. Unfortunately, so far you are not, for the time being, at all. From the jokes we passed in the vote on the bill and you have now been caught by a number of things completely unfounded, which Mr Krimizis says. Mr. Krimizis, I must say, is more careful than some of your officials and you personally when he is placed in public. Because he said there's nothing tampering with the interview in which he announced his resignation. So that's what the well-known "pads" of journalism swallowed it and made the vulgar titles of the headlines. Well, Greece has amazing scientific potential. We are proud of the microprocession programme. There was no way we could cancel it, no matter what everyone said. Because in this programme four Greek universities will enter fifty Greek researchers, who, possibly under other circumstances, in the absence of a strategy for space, would seek their luck abroad. We don't want that at all. Judges of excellence absolutely are neither you nor any of the scientists who serve this sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question is relevant and - for the Minutes to say - we have had a debate to bring it together, but there was a disagreement. We move to the second under No 1556/26-2018 topical question of the second question of the MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "Resignation of Professor Stavros Krimizis, President of the Hellenic Space Organisation (ELDO)". Mr. Maniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u12	Minister, the resignation of Professor Krimizis from the Presidency of the Greek Space Agency is perhaps the top proof why you must leave the government now and why we are calling for elections before you finalise what you are discussing with our lenders. It is the classical case, as I will say immediately afterwards, because we do not trust you to identify the future of the Greek people in the next five years. And we don't trust you, because you proved in the specific case of Professor Krimizis that there is no limit that you have convinced yourself that you will not pass. I want to be very specific and I don't care about individual issues. I am one of those who believed - and that is why I spoke with positive words in the bill - that you have indeed made a light exception to the evil party self of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL who appoints friends, relatives, companions, everyone without a trace of merit. So we have at last said a bright example, a world-familiar man, advisor to four Presidents of the United States, the manager of hundreds of millions, a man who honored Greece and an academic, will finally come to help the country. I told you at that time in the debate 'I'm glad you're doing well. You haven't been able to take yourself a month and drive Mr. Krimizi to resign. And not only Mr Krimizis as president, but I read that the Agency's CEO has resigned as well, and you were also appointed. Minister, do you know what the major issue is for me? The major issue is that the country's international image has been degraded to basic moral values of public life and politics. The concept of excellence has been degraded. The concept of democracy and international domination has been refined. The procedure whereby Greece extends its hand and calls on its children, who are abroad, to come to help. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The worst thing - and, Mr President, give me a minute to conclude - is what followed by the resignation of Mr Krimizis. You had the elementary political wisdom to make a formal statement. But your close associates attempted to slander, iron man, who is internationally renowned and the lips that slandered these slanders, are unworthy, are appointed party officials. So I think - you are a young man in politics - that, if anything, a lot can be accepted in politics, but it cannot be acceptable to try to bring the personality of internationally-built scientists into line with internal weaknesses, so that we can send a message that we do not care about anything, it is enough to satisfy our temporary micro-participatory targets. And, of course, - and I will close with this prototype - because you have also sent us the Easter card with a spaceship, which means that it is your first priority, both personal and the Ministry, I must tell you two very basic things, Minister. The country's space policy existed long before you. We in Polytechnics have been teaching satellite image interpretations for thirty years. When you didn't go to Guyana for launching the "HELLAS SAT 3", you forgot a little detail: that "HELLAS SAT 3" is the third satellite. HELLAS SAT 1 was launched in 2003 and HELLAS SAT 2 was launched some years later. So, you came in third, sweaty, and well done and proud, but it's necessary for each of us to go to the height of size...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Maniots, please, finish up. You have your dentistry for the rest of the things you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u14	...and I really want to believe that your experience after what you experienced with the Greek Space Organisation and Professor Kremizis will be a little better for the next political steps.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Maniot. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u16	You're not avoiding temptation, Mr. Maniatis. I think you're saying things that they're causing. You say that evolution with the Greek Space Organization is proof of why we have to leave immediately. Yes, sir! Your party said a month ago that this House should proceed to a constitutional review. Have you abandoned this position? Does it exist as a position? You tell us, because now you are asking for elections next Sunday in a so-called'second degree'. Those who are mathematicians will understand what I mean. Second-degree jump is from the infinity to the plus infinity. You said a month ago that we must proceed with the constitutional review and now we must go to elections because Krimizis resigned. There are things that, unfortunately, some cannot afford to see. You cannot stand by the good messages that come from Europe that the economy is standing on its feet, that unemployment is falling, that employment is rising. The country has gone well into development and we will have surpluses this year, which we hope will be able to share. You said we were a party state. I'm asking you, who? Mr. Potsis from SICLASS is a party member? Mr. Manjuris, Commander of the Navy, is he a party member? Is Mr Protoppa, who was described as a party member by Mrs Asmakopoulou? Mr. Stavrinides, Technical Director of the European Space Agency, is he also in our party army? Well, there must be some limit, I think. That's not how we can stick a napkin like that. I repeat that anyone who talks about excellence must also have a measure of excellence. And the absolute judge of the measure of excellence is neither the speech nor you, nor Mr. Tsipras, nor Mrs. Gennimata, nor Mr. Krimizis, however. How's it going to happen? And the other scientists are, who don't need anyone to testify to their science. The Greek universities, Mr Manatis, have already participated in the European microprocession programme. So who will tell them if they can or cannot do it? No one, I think, is in position. They have proved their dignity and excellence and will have this political leadership on their side. As far as HELLAS SAT is concerned, Mr Manatis, you find it difficult to remind me that we have received a field of absolute abandonment in relation to satellite policy and it was your party which has responsibility for the sale of Greek satellites along with OTE. Don't tell me about HELLAS SAT 1 and HELLAS SAT 2. You guys signed up as a government to sell the satellite.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u17	There was no ‘HELLAS SAT 2’.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u18	I beg your pardon, this policy, the policy of giving the satellite, to tell us at this time if you consider it a success. I'm ready to hear it, honestly. Because there is a conception, which says that Greece is a country that such services should simply rent. Right now - people listen to it - satellite TV platforms are not on Greek satellites, they are on another satellite. It is not on the satellite, which is in the Greek orbital position, on the satellite which has its control centre in Koropi, on the satellite where we have seven transponders instead of two that we had with the previous situation, which has been completely abandoned and we would lose the orbital position if we were not moving too quickly, with a special committee of experts on the negotiation, which fortunately ended and tripled the country's rights in space to transponders. This is another type of political option. There is therefore the choice of the tenant and the choice of the producer. Do you know what the producer's choice means, Mr. Maniot? I support my universities to produce. I cause economic events and attract foreign investments, such as the investment of the UK, which has already launched the investment for the construction of a microprocessor plant in Greece. Would this be without our own political initiatives? Why haven't they happened all the time? Because there are three things that one can do with space. You can arrange missions on distant planets, Hermes, Venus, Pluto. We have a chance like that, and I didn't know? I do not think anyone suggests that Greece should set such priorities. The second thing you can do is watch the space. We've been doing this in a good way for a long time. The Observatory has been doing a very good job for many years and has contributed to the development of research. There is also a third possibility, which we have not exploited and which concerns the development of applications and space objects. The perception that we received was that of abandonment. Do you know what it means, then, to produce, launch and exploit space objects? Satellites, micro satellites and navals. Totally Greek-made microprocessors and nanomaterials. Why not? Are you suggesting we leave this possibility? It appeared, however, that there were disagreements in the Greek Space Organization as well, which came out insurmountable. I'm sorry to say that, that was the reality. So I do not understand why we should not show that we have nothing to be jealous of and nothing to be afraid of. I would really like to call on anyone who is put in public to respect the people who will serve this programme and the excellence to formulate them weighed. Because Mr. Krimizis is excellent, but the other teachers are excellent. It is not a presumption of non-respect of excellence that we have had, forgive me very much, because the people who are running the agency at the moment are excellent in their industry and we owe them all respect and support at all levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u20	If I could interpret the Minister's position with one word, I would say 'damage of psalm coax'. He told us absolutely nothing about the resignation of Mr Krimizis, the President and the resignation of Mr Pilatsis, the CEO, who himself appointed and therefore something exists in the kingdom of Danimarky. The Minister didn't answer. I hope in his denture he's placed. Secondly, the Minister, I imagine, knows that before SYRIZA takes over the country's governance, the country had space policy. That is why today we are talking about, in 2015, when SYRIZA took over, there was a Association of Space Applications, with a hundred fifty members of companies, with two thousand employees and a turnover of 150 million euros. It is right that the Minister chose to create the Greek Space Agency, and that is why we supported it, but does not tell us that SYRIZA and Mr. Pappas now suddenly discovered Greek space policy. The Greek universities and the Greek innovative enterprises had participated in hundreds of space programs long before Mr. Pappas' policies. Of course, I'll make it clear, because you personalized it. If I were responsible for HELLAS SAT, I would not sell it. And what you said is right. But this does not undo all the other huge mistakes you have made in the issues, I repeat, the staffing, the operation, the management of a new organisation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And because you referred to the elections, I must end with this. Minister, there are the big issues in politics, and there is also the major issue. The major theme is the course of Greece, the Greek society, the Greek economy, after the 20th of August 2018, which tells us that you will get us out of the memoranda. So when your top economic minister, Mr. Tsakalotos, says "forget about these things, about the clean exits that Mr. Tsipras says, we will have four visits a year", when the government does not have the elementary emotiveness to inform the Greek Parliament of what it is after the 20th. August programme, excuse me, but you can look into the eyes of Greek citizens and tell them that in four walls we negotiate your future, retired, unemployed, young, farmers, professionals, but do we not tell you what we are negotiating? Because that's what you're doing. We have asked the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for a month now to inform us. That is why Mrs Gennimata told us at least at the level of political leaders to have a debate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So because we do not trust a government that does not even trust its Members in informing them of what it is negotiating, because we do not trust a government that does not want to tell the basics to the Greek people, much more a government that continues to insist on the surpluses of 3.5%, which is why we have asked for elections. To conclude, however, and to conclude with Mr Krimizis and his resignations, I would like to say this: Minister, because many Greek scientists are worthy, the micro-projects and many other programmes that are designed by Greek scientists are, not just acceptable and respected, but we support them and should continue what has existed for at least fifteen years. Your political responsibility is, as soon as we have agreed to form and form the Hellenic Space Agency, to serve with the greatest possible transparency and integrity this organization, so that there are no moral or legal obstacles with the President and no other shadows, because that simply tarnishes the international image of the country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Maniots. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I think that the debate on these two topical questions shows that the parliamentary control procedure can really be very productive. I have listened to both of the questions and understood that they are in favour of the microprocession programme. I would like to ask you to base this position even better, meeting the people who will develop it. There was an assumption that there was absolutely no financial management at the Hellenic Space Organisation. Of course, I also welcome the position expressed by Mr Maniotis, which says that the satellite should not be sold. I welcome it with complete sincerity and joy, as a formulated position, even though this position has been formulated within your wider opposition line, your new opposition line, which says that we should leave now, even before the constitutional review proceeds, even if this poses a risk that the programme will not be completed properly. Because that's the point, I think. I think the question has been answered in public too. But here I think we're going to a new phase for the country. You, Mr Maniatis, and your resignation, I think you should ask yourself why this government has endured and why it has the confidence of this House. Because he has shaped conditions of stability. You were a Member of a majority of two hundred and fifty MPs. You don't have to ask yourself why he couldn't take it? You served governments, which had greater parliamentary majorities than ours. You tell us why they couldn't take it. Because they were unable to create conditions for stabilisation and recovery of the economy. This is the bitter truth for you, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u23	There was the election of the President of the Republic. Do you forget about this little thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u24	Of course! If you were convinced then, Mrs Asimakopoulou, beyond the Golden Dawn, another democratic opposition party to support your choice would not have been elected and SYRIZA would have been isolated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u25	Golden Dawn supported your choice, not ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u26	But that was politically impossible. And you know why it was politically impossible?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u28	Don't get excited.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u29	It's interesting to talk, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u30	So that was politically impossible, because there was the political and social climate, which said there must be a political solution. What political solution? A political solution, which absolves the commitments and the deadlocks in which the coup d'état was driving the country, a coup d'état which I see some ready to defend until the last political radar of their blood. This, of course, makes it easier for us, you know, because this conflict has been condemned to the conscience of the Greek people and the polls repeatedly and we are glad to see that in the September 2019 elections the main arrows in your patron against us will be defending the work of governance by 2014. As the debate on the aftermath opens, I would like to remind the Greek people - and they have a great deal of convenience to talk about the surpluses - that some have signed surpluses of 7.2%.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u31	With what growth?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u32	With the growth you've achieved. Minus 7.3% and minus 3.5% and minus 12.5% and a total of 25%. That was the growth you've achieved.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u33	All right. And now half is the prediction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u34	And you've got a face right now and you're saying it's a little 1.5% and 2.1%. What can we tell you? It's really impressive.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u35	Your turn is coming, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u36	You should come to a debate in Parliament and tell us this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u37	I would therefore remind you of both the measures and the countermeasures. For 2019 and 2020, when the International Monetary Fund, your favorite partner, proposed clearly 2% measures, you said: Sign now without countermeasures. And now you come and protest and allegedly make revelations about what our policy is for next.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u38	Then the pensions will be cut, the tax will be reduced, and then the election will be held and we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u39	You don't hide behind the MATs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u40	The programme will be completed and then you will also be in a process of ideological and political self-cleaning - we hope for you! If you want to continue, it will be absolutely desirable for our political strategy, to remain stuck in defending the facts of your last governance. If you choose, good luck.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u41	Before we proceed to the debate on the next question, I would like to make a few releases. The fifth under No. 1540/23-2018 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Turks are engaged in smuggling tobacco within Greek territorial waters", will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The Ministry of Finance is the Ministry of Finance. The sixth question under number 1522/18-4-2018 in the second cycle of the Parliamentary Vice-President and MEP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Manufactures within and outside the jurisdiction of the administration and operation of ports", will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The Ministry of Finance is the Ministry of Finance. The second question, under number 1579/30-4-2018, is the first question by MP Larissa of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The establishment of a compensation fee for large hydroelectric power stations", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the relevant Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr. Georgios Stathakis, on the grounds of: Government mission abroad. The first under No. 1570-27-2018 topical question for the second cycle of the New Democracy MP Christos Boukokouros to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The construction of alternative fuels by the cement industry “HRAKLIS’s” in Volos, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Socrates Famelou, on the grounds of: Governmental mission abroad. We continue with the fourth under No. 1547/24-2018 topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition of the Radical Left, Elias Kamaterou, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis, on the subject: "Construction within areas within the jurisdiction of the administration and exploitation of ports". Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, under the Law 4504/2017 of the Ministry of Shipping, your Ministry, we have voted, among other provisions which have resolved too many issues, to settle - I would say - structures which exist within the port area, of course, and the legalisation of whole ports and structures in ports, which have been arbitrary so far. I concentrate my question on the issue of construction within these areas - all constructions, in addition to what the Port Fund has done - from sanitary shops and others. The draft law, which was passed, therefore, provided for arrangements and that we give two years to the Port Funds to draw up studies, which will say how construction should be. It provided that in one year the studies and the constructions had two years to adapt them, obtain permits, etc. In fact, with an amendment tabled by me and Mr Dimitras from the Economists, we thanked you and then you accepted it, because in our opinion it was in the right direction - you accepted the amendment, instead of uniform constructions, which will be bioclimatic and will leave a free traffic area to the HEIs. Also, something very important was that, once they get licenses and adapt, the fines that have been imposed on them will be deleted, which is an incentive for manufacturers to build and adapt their structures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. But in this period, because some people seem to be opposed from the outset, they have taken out a circular - answer more - to a question asked by the municipality of Kalamni and so the port administrations were writing in this space as arbitrary these structures and did not give the municipalities the right to grant public spaces, which the law we voted on. Of course, in this period, since I tabled the question so far, it has been clarified from what I know - it would be good to confirm it to us - that, until then, in these two years, it is not arbitrarily recorded - what has been done, of course, not the new ones - and that the space from the Port Fund may be allocated to these enterprises. However, the question remains as to the issue of deletion of fines, much more when problems have arisen with the operators who have committed them to their accounts, because the fines have been established in the tax office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much Mr. Cameroon. Please, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, there are some questions raised by my colleague. Indeed, Article 96 of Law 4504 is an extremely topical institutional framework, which attempts to solve too many loose ends, which have been coming for decades, such as 'orphan' ports. I would like to inform you that more than two hundred fifty ports are designated as 'orphan' - no-one has legal jurisdiction - with the effect that these areas are exploited by various people. So this institutional framework really comes to resolve and respond to such loose ends. Such loose ends are also the arbitrary ones in the port areas, in the land areas of the ports, so that the resources cannot be used, because once these arbitrary structures were in place, there was an openness from one administration to the other, programmes could not be taken and no master plan could actually be completed with all these loose ends. The new institutional framework, with Article 96, therefore, comes to answer, giving two years to all those directly involved to move to the breakdown, to remove all these arbitrary, to publish studies and to rebuild, to go to what you said quite rightly, to the uniform, which also protects the aesthetics of the environment in a country which expects development benefits from this environment. At the same time, we have enabled, Mr President, the fines to be suspended. In other words, since the collapse process and the preparation of studies to go to a new aesthetic environment, they are not fined. So there is no concern, because during this two-year period there will be no new fines and, secondly, the fines submitted are suspended in this period precisely because of this arbitrary nature. I think it is clear what I am saying and therefore there should be no concern. Besides, any concerns and questions and any questions that will be resolved and with clarificational circulars issued by the Ministry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kamaterre, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u46	Minister, you will give me the opportunity to discuss the construction of public spaces in general. You may also be interested, Mr President, because you had a question, which was extended to the offshore areas. I should like to inform you, therefore, that I have dealt with and dealt with very much, and I have made many representations to the relevant ministries, that it is the responsibility of the three ministries. As far as the port areas are concerned, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs has it, in the case of off-shore areas - squares, sidewalks, etc. - The Ministry of the Environment has it and as far as the beaches are concerned - because that is where we have problems - the Ministry of Finance. The regime that has so far been in place in our country has not only been empty, but nobody knows what is happening. So we started putting order and we have an obligation to put order. I would also like to address you, Minister, because I know that you can play a very important role, because we need to consult the relevant ministries. As regards construction in public areas - squares, etc. - the Ministry of the Environment recently, where we anticipated the regulation of the arbitrary, added provisions which clarify things. In reply to my question to the Ministry, it was clear that in the squares, pavement and in general public spaces, construction could take place - whether these are rooftops or pergoles - according to what the decree describes, that is to say the building regulation, do not have vertical separations, etc. This is described. It's clearing up, because so far we haven't known what's allowed and what's not allowed. And one reason why we meet this picture in all the cities of Greece is why some businessmen don't know. They are, of course, the ones who know and do it arbitrarily, deliberately. But there are others who don’t know what to do. So what does the Ministry of the Environment predict, Minister? Although the fines for the new arbitrary are strict, the following adjustments are made: When one declares the intention to demolish his arbitrary, established and fined, his fine is deleted. When he wants to adjust it - get a license, modify etc. - only pays 20% of the fine. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, with this important concern for the whole country and we need to make it clear: the Ministry of the Environment' s decree, which is strict and stricter than the rules on new arbitrary payments from now on, provides for the deletion of fines. There is a study by the Ministry of Finance for the beaches. The information tells me that something similar is also foreseen for the beaches. It must be made clear, Minister. That's what we voted on. Some people, of course, react and I don't know why. Maybe because they were against it all along. Where fines are demolished, they shall be deleted. This is very important and is in the direction of environmental protection. It's not legalising arbitrary. It's the legalization of arbitrary ones. This is the only case where we require studies from the port funds to be carried out, in order to have the structures adapted to the environment and under all the conditions we say, by issuing a licence, which is approved by the architectural committee and by the Ministry of the Environment - in this case the port areas - and if the archaeological service is involved with the archaeological service. It is therefore in the direction of protecting the environment to bring a class into the construction of public spaces. But please finally take the initiative to put an end to this loose end. We cannot wait for the two years to pass because - I repeat - there is a commitment to the accounts of the citizens who have been fined, which is to be deleted and cannot be moved. There's no need to wait two years. If some want to demolish them now and adapt their structures or new ones, according to the port fund's suggestions and studies, etc. and get permission, we must allow them to release their accounts and be able to function. It is therefore a general policy that we need to see as a government to put order on all constructions in all areas of common interest to pave the way for this issue, which has been stirring up for decades with the ambiguities of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Kamaterre. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, Mr Katameros during the debate on the bill had actually contributed productively with proposals, along with other Members. However, the ministry has shown that he listened carefully to Members' remarks. That is the value and the quintality of the debate in Parliament. I have now heard the remarks made by Mr Kamatteros, and we will take particular account of them when they are issued. But, Mr President, because you have made a few remarks too, I would like to say that, as you can see, other ministries, that is, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Environment, are involved. I will not hide from you that we have made such proposals to the Treasury, because we wanted it to be an integrated institutional framework. As far as I know, there is a new bill from the Ministry of Finance, for which we have also made comments as the Ministry of Shipping on beach issues, so that we can resolve such loose ends. As far as the fine imposed on a number of such structures is concerned, what we can do is to suspend. We can't erase it. Deletion of fines can only be done by the Ministry of Finance. That is why I say that everyone who has such structures must take advantage of this very important opportunity offered by the law after many years of attempting this change in space. We are proposing to all interested parties, as far as public spaces are concerned, to follow what is stated in Article 96, and not possibly any other provisions existing, because this will give better solutions to the issues of the use of public spaces. Mr President, I should like to close by saying to Mr Cameroon that we will convey his interesting remarks, which I thank him for, to the services in which the circular is being prepared and taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much. It is important that this case be cleared up by the co-legislative ministries so that people do not get confused and do not act with fraud, as is sometimes the case - there is a gap, some build up and do not pay - so that we can get a normality especially in the tourist regions. Mr. Carras, you will allow me to announce some deletions. The seventh question, No. 1544/24-2018, topical question by the Member of Parliament, Lesvos, of New Democracy Mr. Charalambos Athanasiou, to the Minister for Migration Policy, concerning the "take of measures to dismantle the islands of Eastern Aegean and, in particular, Lesvos, by transferring immigrants to mainland Greece", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsa. Cause, workload. The eighth Question No 1528/19-4-2018 by Mr.Athens of the Democratic Association of the PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "The urgent need to take administrative and legislative measures to speed up the examination of asylum applications, following the adoption of the 805/2018 decision of the Council of Ministers for Migration Policy, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsa. Cause, workload, The question under number 1983/11-12-2017 of the circle of petitions and questions by the MP Drama of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazidis to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the subject: "With what process did the “KOSMOS’ SCHER” take place in the care of the refugees of the Hosting Centre in BIPE Drama?", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Migration Policy, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsa. Cause, workload. Finally, Question No 2696/17-1-2018 by the Members of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: “The balances of the “Molyviat Fund”, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Alexandros Haritsis, because of a government mission internally. We will now discuss the third with No. 1574-27-2018 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "The immediate need to rebuild the platform of the Port of Troisinia". Mr. Carras, thank you for your patience. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I want to remind you of something, that I am Poriotis and I have a special interest in the port of Poros. It's where I grew up. On the subject now of the timely question, about five years ago the break-up of the climax had begun at that point where small tourist boats or private seamen are bound. This activity for the island is particularly important because, on the one hand, the crews are being supplied, the visitors are circulating and it is a very great advertising of the place. In 2014, therefore, there was the first crackdown, some rough measures were taken with the fitting of a protective grid and since then the Greek bureaucracy has begun to move. How did he start moving? At the usual rate, Mr President, we must do the study. He's done it with the City Port Fund. Then do we make the budget, then go to the district, then get the environmental conditions, then get to the contest, then award the tender, then go to the Court of Auditors and finally the contract signed, then signed at the end of 2017? The implementation of the project has not yet begun, but it has been the case: erosion - in nature we cannot resist, unless we take protective measures - from the sea has extended the breach further and there is a risk of collapse and a greater risk of such breaches. So what did they do? They continued the protective grid so no one would fall into the sea. However, they cannot tie the vessels, because there is still a risk of a collapse in the pressures exerted by ties, but also a danger to people. So I now come to visit my place 15 days ago, and I see the breach walking again. He's got the earthquake image. As we see an earthquake, Mr President, and Mr Minister, opening a breach and walking, it has this picture. We are already in the fifth year in which the port is effectively in operation, and the country's revenues have been very low and has been discredited in the world of tourist boats. So the following question arises: Is there any possibility this year of doing something to operate the place or will it move forward at the usual pace? And I will remind the Minister - although he knows - that there is a 12-month contract for the execution of the project, for which he has been approved from earlier. The 12 months, of course, always in Greek reality, want more, either for measuring either the payment or the intermediate instalments. It is therefore lost in the summer of 2018, Minister, with the risk of going to 2019 as well. That is why I asked this question, with the sole aim of seeking a solution to this situation, because it is regrettable. And I must say this: competition between the islands is great. Mr President, you know that the port of Poros is prosperous and safe. It has been a shipyard of the Greek fleet, the war, which also contributed to the revolution, except, of course, the events of Mouli and the explosion, so that we do not enter historically. Let us protect it, Minister, and give it a solution to work this year. I expect a positive answer from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Carras, thank you very much. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Carras, I don't like making any recommendations for you, because I know how merciful and careful you are. Firstly, I understand the agony, but the exaggeration is probably bad for what we are all aiming at, for there to be a tourist activity on this island. Indeed, there are problems. That's the information I have from the services. But you need to know, Mr Carras, that, first of all, this project is being carried out by the region and not by the Ministry. So, he's not involved in the shipping department, to clarify things. Secondly, I would like to tell you that the previous procedures had to do with environmental conditions, archaeology, a series of services which, in fact, often lead to delays. But it seems to me that you too have delayed asking this question, Mr Carras. Now that you're asking the question, things are done. On 27-3-2018, and not in 2017- the contract for the award of the project was signed and by the end of May the contractor took over. At this time we are now in the process of writing its obligations from the region. These are the assurances I can give you. The project will start. The port operates and accepts ships. There's no picture you described. You probably haven't been home in a while. The Second Athens has absorbed you! I would therefore like to say to you, Mr Carras, that this picture of the ports is found in many ports of the Aegean Sea. And it would be advisable to ask a question, in order to show how all these years, Mr Carras, the ports of the country were being built. Ports were built, Mr Carras, on critical islands of great tourist interest, which have been received for six, seven years, which means that they are new ports - and they have been'sitting'. And can I tell you one more thing, Mr. Carras? ESAL is an institution of the Ministry, which approves port studies. In this instrument, therefore, for years since it was set up, all those "good" gentlemen who want to regovern Greece have failed to participate in the representatives of the masters, i.e. the people who put the ships out of the ports. So such an instrument, which gave authorisation to become ports, did not have the participation of people who could really play a protectionist role with the word, their participation and their opinion. Do you know what's going on, Mr. Carras, in Ih-Stratis, a port received five years ago and cost EUR 19 million? When it's been a while, the ship can't get in. In order not to tell you what is going on in Ikaria, Santorini and in ports of no number.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Please, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u54	Obviously the Minister's answer gave him an opportunity to refer to the ports of the Cyclades, the Aegean Sea. But that was not the subject of my question, Mr President, because it was of particular local interest. Now, what is happening in the port of Ai-Stratis is known, as is the case in the Cyclades. And after all - you made a mistake, Mr Kurublé, and I have to tell you. ESA and the participation of masters in the Port Planning Committee are not concerned with my question for this reason...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u55	I answered your question very clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u56	I'll answer that. I have the right to return.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u57	Say it. I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u58	The participation of or non-Masters in the ESRB did not hinder the progress of this specific task of the resource, as it was not one of the cases where a master of the committee would be raised. I would remind you that there most tourist ships operate with so-called government degrees. They're not masters. They're known skippers. So, as far as the five-year delayed work was concerned, I would say: on the one hand, there might not have been the responsibility of the Ministry, as the Minister says, but the Secretariat-General for Ports, Port Policy and Port Investment why do we have it? Do we have her not knowing what's going on? Should it not have intervened as a supervisory agency to deal with the matter? Secondly, I must say that the Minister may comment that I have been late to go to my place. I asked the question waiting for a solution. And I'll remind you of something else now: I'm the one who disgusted actions against the Greek state for a further reason: Poros - and this is the pain of the Poriots - had the "Salon of Tourist Boats". 2014 was the last year. It's what you went to - I don't know if you did - and you started in Nafplio the other day.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u59	I went there the other day.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u60	Very good. Well done, 'cause you're showing hyperactivity. No one's questioning her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u61	I went, but you guys were gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u62	I, Minister, was not invited to be. Here, let me give you the answer. You show hyperactivity, but you didn't show overactivity here. And you might say he didn't have responsibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u63	Where did you see that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u64	Hyperactivity is shown in all the issues you deal with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u65	I'll answer you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u66	Don't have a dialogue. Please, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u67	I say it positively, I do not say it negatively. If you receive it negatively, answer me, Minister, I have no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u68	Close the breach if it hasn't closed!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u69	The breach cannot be closed either this year's period or the next. What I asked of the question, to finish and put things in place, is this: Can the Ministry take the initiative to deal with them immediately and not with bureaucratic procedures? We've spent four years and tomorrow we'll talk about whether it's the district, if it's the fund's fault, if it's the Ministry's fault. The place has been discredited, and that is why I referred to the 'Salon of Tourist Vessels'. I have here reports saying Nafplio has become the international capital of luxurious seas. Poros had this privilege and lost it because of this breach that we are saying, because neither the brokers came, nor did they have the image they wanted to have, to project the Greek product. This is established in the Nafplion. Argolida, of course, has other sites, has a special recognition of archaeological sites. Poros and Saronic don't have them right now. So I expect and repeat: will I have a reply from the Minister on what will happen or what else we are going to do, whether I went to St. Efstratios or whether I went to the Cyclades? Because this answer you understand, Mr Minister, that it does not satisfy me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u70	Minister, you have the floor to complete the breach.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Carras, I want to tell you that for one thing I can be proud of is that I know English well. So I told you that you made a mistake. You said - you did not have good information - that the contract was signed in 2017. No, the contract was signed on 27-3-2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u72	Worse!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u73	I'm telling you the reality. The project contractor will be set up at the end of May. This is a reality that you need to know. From there on, what is going on with the port funds, Mr Carras, is another painful story that we need to see at some point, because the logic of going to self-government without organisation, so that they cannot implement projects, does not help us. We need to see this whole grid. On the other hand, it is the Ministry's Secretariat-General for Port Industry and I told you that I want you to come to the Ministry once and for all - and you are not a man who will laugh at you - what work is being done, what gaps are being covered all this time so that we can really win the lost time, which separates us from the evolution that has to exist in the infrastructures of the country. And I say it with all honesty. So I want to tell you that this is a regional project. Of course, we always show interest. We've reached this point. I therefore believe that the project will be launched and restored to an island that is of interest in terms of tourism. That is all, Mr President, and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u74	I think we're on the right track. You're going to the Ministry, Mr. Carras, you have to promise. And as the Minister has said, he has called for you and it is good that you have the same viewpoint in person. Colleagues, the Minutes of Wednesday 28 February 2018, Thursday 1 March 2018, Friday 2 March 2018, Monday 5 March 2018, Wednesday 7 March 2018 and Thursday 8 March 2018 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u75	The minutes of Wednesday 28 February 2018, Thursday 1 March 2018, Friday 2 March 2018, Monday 5 March 2018, Wednesday 7 March 2018 and Thursday 8 March 2018 were validated. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-04-S1-commons.u76	With the agreement of the House at 11.26p., the sitting for the next Monday, May 7, 2018, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of current questions.
