ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 24-01-2018 authorisation, its PRACTICAL Sessions of Wednesday 24 January 2018 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the vote in the entire draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Statute of the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, following the annexes thereto’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before entering the debate on today's topical and urgent questions issue, let me tell the House on Friday 26 January 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 877/23-1-2018 by MP Thesprotia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Marios Katsis to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "Selecting a strategic investor for the company "FORTHNET" - risk of restriction and distortion of competition". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, Member of Parliament, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject of the decongestion of the islands of the Eastern Aegean. 3. The question by No 874/22-1-2018 by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Financing from PPC S.A." the project to improve the road Pournaria - Mr. 4. The Question No 914/23-1-2018 by MP MEP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Have hydrocarbons in Aliakmon's water supplying the Water Processing Installation of the city of Thessaloniki". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 884/23-1-2018, a topical question by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the electronic procedure for the adoption and movement of administrative acts and documents throughout the ministries. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 918/23-1-2018 by Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on "Is 30% of State Advertising in the Region"? 3. The Question No 852/16-1-2018 by the Member of the Attiki Parliament, Mr Georgios Vlachos, to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the subject: 'Elepsina coastal front to the citizens of the city'. 4. The question by number 801/11-1-2018 of the Member of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Reimbursement of producers - Plan for the reconstruction of the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ)". 5. The Question No 758/8-1-2018 by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: “Incorporation of sewerage networks and treatment of sewage treatment of Kontovasina, Levidi and Kallianios Arcadias”. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 1888/7-12-2017 question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "No protection of the first residence of natural persons who are debtors, traders and entrepreneurs who do not meet the conditions for the extrajudicial regulation of debts". Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you very much for absolute respect for the time being, because today we also have legislative work. So we begin with the seventh under number 821/15-1-2018 appropriate question from the second cycle of the Samos MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Application of proposals, funding course, timetable for work on new works for the conservation, restoration and promotion of cultural monuments of Samos Law. Sustainable recovery planning’. Mr Sevastakis, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Minister who has gone down several times to Samos, who has visited the monuments and has therefore a structured and comprehensive picture of the loose ends. You know very well that in the theory texts the prologue is written retrospectively, so it is a form of dilemma. So I'm going to go to the main theme of the question to comply with the President's mandate. The Prefecture of Antiquities of Samos has been submitted, Minister, for the maintenance and restoration of the Monastery of Prophet Elias. Let me note that the funding is through the ESRB by the Ministry of Economy and by signature by Mr. Haritsis, through the Operational Programme of the Northern Aegean Region. The implementation body has the UNHCR. Also, proposals have been submitted for the maintenance and restoration of the Holy Temples of Transformation of the Sotiros and Agios Nikolaos Karlovassos, the promotion of the Byzantine castle in the area of Potami, the maintenance of the frescoes of the Holy Monastery of Panagia Samos, the maintenance and restoration of Ai - Giannakis in Ano Vathy, the maintenance - fixing of the Temple of the Zoodos Christ in Steli Ikaria, while the very important decision is still pending, in cooperation with the National Metsovio Polytechnics, for the maintenance and restoration of the Holy Monastery of Theoclasts in Ikaria, due to a geologic specificity, as they slide the rocks and pressure the body of the building. Because there is a need for comprehensive information on the course of the proposed projects, but also for some of which the financial flow has begun - in some cases it is still pending - and because we need to have an integrated picture of the section of the outstanding projects, I ask you this. What is the Ministry's programme for the financing and implementation of these projects, at what stage is each of the activities mentioned above and what is the timetable for work?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u4	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. As you said, I have repeatedly visited the island, and I have a personal picture of all these monuments you mentioned. The Monastery of Prophet Ilias Karlovaio Samos has indeed joined the Regional Operational Programme "North Aegean 2014-2020", with a budget of 925,000 euros. It has already begun and its end is October 2020. We are at the stage of the adoption of the tender documents. It will also follow immediately after the award of the contract to carry out the maintenance and restoration work. This is what we believe will offer the island a new dynamic of alternative tourism. The island from our image, despite all the difficulties it had encountered, has returned to numbers before the refugee crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u6	Tourist numbers you mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u7	Yeah, the tourist numbers. And this is very important for the island, and we take this very seriously into account in the choices and priorities we give. For the other monuments of Samos, for the Holy Temple of Transformation of Sotiros, the Holy Temple of Agios Nikolaos, the Byzantine castle in the area of Potami Karlavasos and the Holy Monastery of Great Panagia, as well as for the particularly interesting Temple of Ai - Giannakis in Upper Vathy, there are already approved studies by the Ministry of Culture and this element makes these works mature for execution. In July 2017, Samos Antiquities Board, in collaboration with the Municipality of Samias, submitted proposals for funding to the "Special Purpose Development Programme for the North Aegean 2017-2020", from national resources, a Public Investment Program of the Ministry of Economy and Development. The evaluation is expected immediately. Once they are financed, we will be able to talk about the timetable for implementation. However, these projects, if there is a need, because they are ripe, can also be included in a possible new invitation to co-financed programmes in the region or in a transnational programme. This will primarily be proposed by the Ministry of Culture. Now as far as Ikaria is concerned, indeed, this Holy Temple of Christ’s Lifegiver in Steli Ikaria faces particular problems. He is a member of the Ministry's Public Investment Program with a budget of 120,000 euros. It has been auctioned by the relevant department of the Ministry, the Restoration Department of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Monuments and will start work in the near future. At the Theocracist Monastery, which has the falls of the rocks you mentioned, fortunately they have not caused damage to the Catholic and cell, and this is very important. He has already joined the Ministry's 2018 Action Programme, with a budget of 40,000 euros. Also, there will be a research program with the National Technical University for the restoration of Catholic and individual buildings, as well as an investigation of static and dynamic adequacy with an operator of the Holy Monastery of Theocracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u8	You have a second, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u9	Implementation studies will be followed by the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Sevastakis, what's left unanswered? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u11	The President is strict, and we must also be precise.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u12	Strictly speaking, the time frames are the time frames.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u13	I should like to highlight the ancient antiquities in the island complex of Fournas, which is scientifically curated and documented by archaeologist Koutsouflakis and which also needs special attention to the promotion and organization of the visit. There is an issue in total with the ancient antiquities and the strategies that our country can develop. I would like to say in general that the question is not about emblematic intervention in monuments, which in any case are very interesting, because they are cultural cross-borders. We do not have homogeneous forms or homogeneous cultural groups which constitute the identities of the islands. This creates a diversity. One recognizes the origin, behavior, ways in which different language icons form iconographics, say, techniques in the various monuments, for which we are discussing. The central question - and I think it is one of the things we need - is the integration of these scattered remains of a historical body of our country into a unity so that the cultural visitor, in which our country aims and is addressed, visiting to understand its own geographical importance, not only, but also to see, understand, understand the monuments themselves, but also their structure with the place, their assembling with the productive features of the place. This is a much greater experience than simple repair or scientific documentation or action, as we say, in the Theocracist, of geological slipping. I would like to say that there is also a request for sponsorship, which concerns this side, the economic dimension which your Ministry has, and the modernisation of the permanent exhibition of the archaeological collection of Kampos Ikaria and other projects both in Ikaria and Samos and in the Fournos. I have the impression that the various financial possibilities, as well as relations with European programmes, need to be greater coherence so that scientific studies and actions can be carried out more quickly in order to achieve what we are calling for, another type of visitor, another type of international address of our country and ultimately another type of internationalisation of our cultural stock beyond stereotypes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Sevastaki. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much for the question, because you are giving me the opportunity to raise a subject on which we are working very intensively, and we are moving on to other parts of Greece and which concerns the native part of our cultural heritage. The in-house survey has therefore started in the archipelago of Furnans in 2015 and is under way. There are fifty two shipwrecks, ancient, medieval, younger ones scattered in the twenty islands and islands of the Furnas complex. Of course, the extent of the finding is known to the Ministry. After all, there have been press releases. It is part of the INTERREG cross-border cooperation programme of Greece - Cyprus entitled "West Routes in maritime protected areas of the Eastern Mediterranean - Development of a divestment tourism network". It is what you were talking about, another tourism, another approach, which we are working very closely with the Ministry of Tourism. The duration of the programme shall be three years until 2020. The object is to identify dive paths with environmental, historical and archaeological interest. As a result of this programme, it will be the creation of an integrated proposal for cultural management of the Forks' Shipwrecks, opening up the way to the establishment of a visiting archaeological site. It is something in which I believe that our country must invest, it must go ahead, because we have huge wealth in the sea which, because it needs much attention and much preparation, leaves us a very large field of activity. I would also like to say that the visitability of the archaeological sites and museums of Samos and Ikaria has been greatly increased. In 2016 the visitors were twenty-nine thousand eighty-five and in 2017 they were forty-seven thousand four hundred eighteen. At the same time, Eupaleneio, which recently opened, has already been accepted in its first pilot function of nearly fifteen thousand visitors, which is very important for the island of Samos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u16	Thank you. MEP Mr Konstantinos Koukodimos asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad from 10 February to 14 February 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u17	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Member Emmanuel Thraniotis requests permission from a short-day absence abroad from 26 March to 31 March 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u18	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Next we will discuss the first under number 881/23-1-2018 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Kilkis Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: ‘Results of the evaluation of civil servants’. Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am compelled to come back with a timely question on an issue that I raised and my written question a month ago, but to which I unfortunately did not get any answers. As of December 2016, L.4369/2016 provided for the assessment of civil servants. As a first assessment period it was in 2016 and this assessment had to end in the summer of 2017. Finally, with various delays, various circulars that you issued were completed about four months ago. However, while we now have January - we are going for February - 2018, the results of this evaluation have not been known. And it is important to have the results, to see exactly and to manage and to be productive in the future, in relation to both the number of participants and the way in which they have finally been assessed, namely which of the procedures the civil servants have chosen, but also the results thereof, because there is a specific reference to your own legislation on officials who need assistance in their work, if this is judged by the evaluation report. In a question which I have tabled you have avoided - I hope you do not continue with it today - you will reply to me about the specific number of civil servants assessed. You report participation rates for civil servants in ministries. You understand that this does not give me and the citizens a clear picture. You also avoid responding to which of the three methods provided for in the assessment. Unfortunately, the evaluation was not carried out in the same way for all the officials. Some were made with the participation of the evaluator and evaluator and only some of them by the evaluator or only by the assessor. You can understand that this also matters to see how this situation will improve. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. The most important thing is that we do not have an image, that counterpopulation does not have a picture, that society does not have a picture of whether this assessment was essential in the end, and whether its conclusions and results, compared with those rated below 60 degrees, are there, so that we can see, as the law provides, in what process of improving these less or more inadequate officials are we going to carry out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u20	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u21	Mr Georgiodda, you are coming back today to an issue that we have discussed and which, as you say, has not been given enough information. I want to remind you of a few things because the goal is not - and will never be - to hide evidence. There's no reason to do this. But I would remind you of what I said last time, that for the first evaluation in 2016, our position was that it was done satisfactorily, without the best result, that is, the full implementation, as we would like to see. We didn't triumph. We did not say that the evaluation was completed throughout the public sector. I would remind you of the process and what happened until we arrived in October and a satisfactory part of the evaluation, as we said. I would remind you that the evaluation in the public sector for many years and before the memorial times was a formal process, without any substance. It was also a process that was very often judged by friendly or not very often and with customer characteristics. It was a formal procedure in which no one has ever dealt with the papers and the officials, the chiefs, etc. Subsequently, in the Memorandum of Understanding, Mr Mitsotakis had a system of assessment with harsh, punishing features, with the prediction that 15% of the employees had to be scored poorly, with a low score, so that these people could then become a tank of redundancies or availability. This, then, created a precedent for civil servants, who acted negatively reflexively in listening to the word 'evaluation'. I think we have agreed on that. The first attempt, therefore, was with the law that we have brought, namely an assessment of 360th which the assessor and the assessor and each assessor are judged by two levels, so that this whole process can be an objective one. We have tried to convince that this evaluation system to be implemented is a system that alone aims at the progress of civil servants, improving their relationship with their work, improving their everyday lives and developing them. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] One more minute I'll need to stop. So that was the big part we had to deal with. And so, with the first circular that started to implement the evaluation, the trade union movement - with your party, of course, too, even though the party's official position was different, the trade unionists were not, I note it simply - abstention, abstention that has not been revoked until today. That was the big obstacle to evaluation. The other major obstacle was that, also under the responsibility of previous governments for a number of years, there had been no public head-in-law crises for about nine years so far. This meant that the assessor had not been judged himself. It was very often commissioned. In fact, you remember Mr. Mitsotakis' known assignments in December 2015. A night of government directors entrusting. These two problems were objective problems. From there on, we have made a series of attempts to convince ourselves with discussions in order to withdraw this fear and this feeling of insecurity from public officials. I think that ultimately despite how the evaluation was completed, the great profit of this story was that it opened a huge dialogue with the contradictions, the contradictions and the creation of another climate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u22	All right, the rest in dentistry, please. Mr Georgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u23	Minister, I note that you are really avoiding giving evidence and I cannot understand why. Do you know what's of interest to society outside? Since everyone is evaluated in his work, the good civil servants who are the overwhelming majority want to be evaluated, precisely to distinguish themselves and to be rewarded, when necessary, by those who do not have the same dignity. You did an evaluation for 2016 and you cannot tell me how many thousands of civil servants were evaluated and whether one or five or ten were assessed less or more inadequate, so that your own provision can be activated, for efforts to improve and assist this civil servant. It is tragic and it despises the evaluation process itself. So, Mrs. Gerovali, when I say that I'm probably all good again, it's all right, with what arguments are you going to overthrow it to me, with what evidence? Give me those - that is what I ask - to see that a substantial assessment has actually been made. That's what this House wants to know, that's what society wants to know. And say something else. You did not make the choices of the supervisors, as you had to do and as you committed. The 2017 assessment that will take place in the next few months, who will do it? The posted superintendents? You need to change the law. Come on, 2016 was a transitional period. We supported the House and voted in favour, although we disagreed with the contents of many of the amendments you have brought. But we wanted the concept, the value of the whole process, to become aware of every Greek citizen, to every citizen of the European Union. Today you deliberately deceive her. It's not a simple formal process, it's not a simple prerequisite for our rating with our lenders. We all need to understand that a substantial task needs to be done, which really helps the work of civil servants who do not have enough to do so and at the same time reward those who really work at the moment and are the ones who keep, we know very well, the public at a good level. You have to give a reply to this House on how the evaluation was carried out, in which way, as I said before, it is of great importance, and that is whether it was made by the heads of state or whether it was done by both of them in any case. Tell me how many thousands of civil servants have been evaluated, of those who had to be assessed, and the most important thing is to give me a picture - I do not want precise figures - that in the end we are happy to say that the ninety-nine were assessed sufficiently and for the one assessed we will make the best efforts. That was the spirit of the law. I read this in the explanatory statement. This is written in the articles that you have voted for as a majority. Support your own law and give the House and society the information they need. Otherwise, you are deceiving yourself and the process, because you may not believe it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u24	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u25	Mr Georgiod, you should know better than me that there has never been a system to collect evaluation data. This has not happened in all the years of existence of the Greek State. We tried to change that image and we manage it. You're asking me how many people got under 60 at the score. Of course, I did not see the same anxiety about how many people got over 90, the excellent ones. It would make sense to ask that, in relation to your perception. I would remind you, however, that there have been all these enormous resistances and problems, which we believe have been overcome in the process of persuading civil servants to believe that evaluation is a useful tool and must go ahead. We've dealt with it decisively. So the number you are asking for cannot be precise for a second reason. The second reason is, as you know from the law, that when the score is over 90 or under 60 there is a process under the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u26	No evaluation committees were made.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u27	When it is over 90 if the deviation between the two exceeds 24 percentage points, they are re-evaluated by the Special Assessment Committee. And in the second case, when it's under 60, for an average rating of less than 75 with a specific justification by the staff member is re-examined. The law, then, has predicted it all. In fact, all steps have not been completed as we would have liked, and I told you next time. When we have faced all this dreadful landscape together with the drafting of the new organograms and all the reorganization that needs to be done in the public sector - and it has begun and done - we have seen that one is the way and we are moving on to it. The work of e-assessment is being auctioned immediately and will be completed in a very short time, precisely to overcome all these claws, bureaucracy, and the possibility of collecting objective data. Even the services from which we requested information, learned from old times, sent everything that might have been more rough or could give at that time "h" reasons, which all of them are technical reasons, along with resistance. It was a first difficult step towards completing the evaluation in the public sector. The electronic evaluation will be next. I would remind you that the overseers' crises have already begun. The first directors-general have already been placed. By the next few months and every quarter, which we have legislated, - remember - each tier of hierarchy will be evaluated and thus the next evaluation, that is, for 2017, will be carried out by heads who have passed objective procedures, which we, for the first time, have been doing after ten years, Mr Georgioda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u28	It's for the other year.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u29	Therefore, I think this has been exhausted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u30	Your current dialect has been exhausted. We continue with the tenth under number 782/10-1-2018, a topical question by the Member of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Bargiotas, to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: “When will the digital signature be applied?” Mr Barriotta, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, thank you and you for finally coming to discuss this question after five postponements so far. Anyway, it's too late than never!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u32	It's still timely. I've always been here. There is a study by IOBE, which I mention for example, which says that the public can directly save up to EUR 400 million per year by simply abolishing paper and related procedures for sealing and issuing administrative and other documents. I believe that the real benefit is much greater in terms of transparency, citizens' accessibility, ease of action with the public, etc. Historical is old. The 2001 Presidential Decree enabled, at least potentially, the application of digital signatures and time stamps. There have been good examples since 2006. The National Printing Office is the first example of digital migration and operates perfectly since then, as we all know. The 2011 Act, which was not implemented, in order to be amended by Law 4440/2016, which provides for strict implementation conditions and provides for compulsory and law enforcement of the switchover to a digital platform in the public sector, i.e. digital documents, even with the waiver of public decision-making from one point onwards. It's all very little done. This is really an inexpensive reform, which has huge implications, even environmentally. The use of paper, ink and documents is a huge burden on the public today. We are probably the only country in the Balkans, if not on the planet, in the seal class - a copy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because the President is always strict with me, I'm going to ask questions. First, why has the use of the approved electronic signature not been implemented, as foreseen by your 2016 law? How many individual implementing acts and joint ministerial decisions have been adopted so far - the law provided for certain time limits, which have not been complied with - and finally what stage is this procedure in place? Because we're in the dark. At least from the audit and from the investigation, nothing has been issued and there is no provision in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u33	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u34	Mr Barriott, after I fully agree with you in all the thinking behind your position on how necessary it is today and how delayed the electronic movement of documents in the public sector is, but not just after I agree with you that these should have been done yesterday in the country, I will give you the steps of this process that has taken to date and I think it is satisfactory - and why there is also this postponement, the postponement of the compulsory movement of documents, which, as you said, we have legislated. As you said, you know that the law provides for the adoption and movement of all administrative acts using approved electronic signatures and time stamps. In this context the ADR, the Certification Authority of the Greek State, has issued a free-of-charge digital certificates of signature and encryption through the National Gate of ERMAS and has been providing free timeline services. The ADR by the end of 2017 has issued and is in force fifty-four thousand nineteen digital certificates for civil servants, individuals, businesses and professional groups. Of course we would also like these figures to be much larger, and that is why in cooperation with INEP, the Training Institute of the National Public Administration Centre, we also organise awareness and education actions, which include on-the-spot education, digital certificates and support. At the same time, on 16 January 2018, the technical checks of the Greek hub EIDAS, on the basis of the relevant standards of the Regulation, were completed in cooperation with the competent services of the European Commission. In addition, by the end of the first half of 2018, the Remote Creation and Verification Service of Electronic Signatures will also be established, which will also be made available to users. Finally, there is cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Policy and Information, academic institutions and bodies, to upgrade the infrastructure of the RES, which actions and cooperation aim to achieve simplified procedures for digital signatures, eliminate technical difficulties, create remote signatures and time stamps, applications for signature and verification, unlimited number of digital certificates issued for end-users and digital certificates for public servers, with which the Greek State currently bears additional costs. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'm going to continue in the next year I'm going to have at my disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u35	Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u36	I have to admit that this is as far as I'm confused. I hope you'll help me out later. All these initials don't say much. The question comes back and it's one. You know better than me, that with your ministerial decision of July 2017, the deadline that expired on 1-7-2017 for the implementation of decisions, which had already expired and according to this same ministerial decision at least - I hope typically - from 1-1-2018 all ministries' decisions are 'in the air', they do not produce a legal result, because your ministerial decision, like the law, says that from 1-1-2018 for the Ministries that have not been published on the Internet, have no digital signature and time stamps that are invalid. He says it's stable. We've already entered the generator, he's running. The question is when will this anomaly be lifted. All that you say goes ahead with the enlightenment, licensing, etc. The little I know from computers is that all this is easy, it's things that on paper sound complicated and in fact they're applications that are bought and applied the other day in the morning. The question comes back is when the process will be completed. Do we have any specifications? Do we have a company, a server that helps, a private company that tries to put this process in place? I know that in any private company you buy an app - there are dozens of trade - with multiple permits. Just what you have to set the standards and what you want. Is that set? Because what we have seen so far, as I have said, is that there is already a problem of formality, I hope, I repeat. The question is: Until 1-1-2019, as the law says, will the entire public have passed in digital application? I think it's impossible. There are already parts of the public that poorly work in this way. The hospital I've been working on is networked and online since 2009, if I remember correctly. Taking the computer, the printer from each employee to learn to interact with the rest digitally is a relatively simple process for technology. What concerns and what makes it difficult is the Greek bureaucracy and allow me, possibly unwillingness or the weakness of the Ministry. It's a time-consuming situation, you found it, but you don't promote it. It is characteristic - and I will close, Mr President - that the Ministry's interest and the warmth are that the entries on the relevant part of the Ministry's site are in 2015. There is no reference to the Ministry's site in the new law, Law 4440/2016 and any procedures you have launched. We're all in the dark, obviously because this thing is in a very early, sadly, stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u38	Mr Barriot, as you said, there are digital systems which, unfortunately, - because, if these systems were properly installed, we would not be dealing with the issue today - do not communicate with each other. I mean, for you to have compulsory document handling...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u39	That's not accurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u40	Listen. We completed the work of interconnecting the seventy-two first hospitals and move on to the next one. We interconnected undeclared work. In other words, we are making moves throughout this period to operate the systems, which, without this completion, you can see that it is not possible to complete the compulsory digitalisation of documents. But what did we find? We found that this is a dazzling landscape of adaptation that caused us many problems. And so, the innovation that went in was that there would be a central system of electronic document handling, a project for which the request for funding was submitted in the previous days by the Ministry of Digital Policy, and soon it will be a reality. Of course, it will also be assisted by the interoperability systems that we have installed from the projects that we have done this year in order to complete this process. Actually, it wasn't that simple. And it wasn't that simple, because systems to function must have a compatibility in their programs, for which it's not to make sure that there is one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u41	Documents, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u42	For the paperwork. Digital signatures, I told you, move on. We have completed and proceeded to upgrade the system, etc., to issue infinite electronic signatures and the public gives and will give free digital signatures. The other obstacle to the part of digital signature, and I am ending with it, was that, as you know, I mentioned it to the previous question, fortunately, the heart of the whole reform, even it, which is who will seal as what, had to do with the change in the entire organizational chart of the public, which was running at the same time. This need is the basis of the reform, as you know, and the electronic handling of documents is also based on, among other things, the signing of what, new heads of government, crises, etc. This has created a blurred picture in the public sector this year. However, reform is taking place, which have moved forward. Finally, very soon, at the end of 2018, it is certain that the compulsory movement of documents will work with the law to finally abolish this monster of bureaucracy, at the cost of as much as you and IOBE say. I will agree with you, perhaps more. It is also the big question of saving public funds. That's our target. Because, as you know, by throwing away some fifteen thousand civil servants, we have not solved the public's problem. You know that. It was another logic that preceded. Today, the real cost lies in bureaucracy. This is our rival. At the end of 2018 - and possibly earlier - this system will be complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u43	We'll be right here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u44	Yes, we will be here, Mr Barriotta. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Social Affairs is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Following the completion of the National Bank of Greece's Contribution contract in favour of the Greek State and the legal person Public Law Hospital in Athens "The Evangelism - Ophthalmian Ophthalmian University of Athens - Polyclical"". In addition, the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Definition of the Amending Protocol to the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of San Marino providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in Council Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments and common declarations by the Contracting Parties and implementing provisions’. Finally, the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Following the Amendment Protocol to the Agreement between the European Community and the Principality of Liechtenstein providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in Council Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments and common declarations by the Contracting Parties and implementing provisions’. Fifth, under No 871/22-1-2018, a top-stage question from the Thessaloniki Parliamentary I, Mr. Ioannis Saridis, to the Foreign Minister on the subject: ‘Do you trust Matthew Nimic as the United Nations Special Ombudsman for the Skopje issue?’ It will not be discussed because of the absence of the Minister responsible abroad. Also, the eighth Question No 846/16-1-2018 by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Interior, on the subject: "Problems in the operation of the Paionia Border Guard Division" will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad. Furthermore, the fourth question under number 915/23-1-2018, first question by MP, Athens, the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, concerning compensation for pensioners of the OSE, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The first question under number 2002/12-12-2017 by Vice-President and MP of Athens, New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "An unjustified delay in the start of the new National Museum of Contemporary Art (EMF)", will not be debated due to the impediment of the honourable Member. The sixth question under number 853/16-1-2018, the second question of the Member of Parliament of the European Parliament, Mr Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Contracted Sellers, the Archaeological Sites Fund", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Member of Parliament. The third, with number 875/22-1-2018, a top-stage question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "The work to attract visitors to Lake Ladonas, amounting to EUR 1,289,618 and the work to improve the street Purnaria - Kyrgyri - Myganda, amounting to EUR 500,000, is expected to be announced", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister responsible. The fourth under number 916/23-1-2018, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Direct need for cleansing and flooding on the River Iofros and the streams of the area Xeropotamos - Ai Giannis Kostos - Maladonikis - Phoenicia of the Municipality of Heraklion", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the relevant Minister. Do we go to the second with number 876/23-1-2018, a top-level question from the Member of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglu on the subject: 'Would you finally deal with the problem of our thousands of fellow citizens who are not retired because of debts?' Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as I promised you again here, to see this important issue concerning the thousands of our fellow citizens who have completed their insurance lives, that is, they have the preconditions, in terms of years and age, and they cannot receive a pension from the OGA or OAU, because they have debts of more than four thousand in the case of OGA and more than twenty thousand in the case of OAUs and cannot make them a one-off payment, asking for a total amount of regulation. As you know, L.3863/2010, as amended and valid, gives the opportunity for the four thousand, but from there on, too much has happened. Debts and examples have been accumulated, which I mentioned last time show that ECA today can also collect the money and people have a part of their pension, beyond what is being retained, so that they can survive. It's unacceptable to close our eyes in this. You have a contradictory position. You once accused me of being in common because there are thousands of such people, I bring this question for tiny reasons, addressing these thousands, and the other way you said to me: 'But they are few, they are very few'. Clear, record, finally decide. Would you give a way out, which would be beneficial to both EVA and the people? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Petropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I will answer you, starting with the question you have asked me, Mr Kegeroglu: 'When will you at last be seriously concerned with this problem?' I have given you detailed answers and you need to be careful about your own period of responsibility. Indeed, Law 3863/2010 provided for the possibility of payment of the debts in instalments. Your government in April 2013 provided for by a special provision for farmers the following - I read the relevant part - ‘Specially the OGA may be granted a pension from the date laid down in their statutes and for an amount which cannot be more than EUR four thousand’. It was 2013. Your government has set up up to four thousand and nothing more. In fact, you have completed this paradox: While for other debtors the possibility of adjusting debts is up to forty instalments, especially for the OGA, the amount due is offset by a total withholding of the pension each month. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Full repayment. And you are now coming to tell me that, until then, it was over 90% of the farmers' debtors, in a situation of genuine debacle, what we are going to do. You were from June 2013 until January 2015, a competent State Secretary. What are you asking me? What have you not done all this time, which the army of debtors has been calling on farmers, while since 2015 we have not been creating debtors more than 10%? Then it was the great crowd of debtors. We have arranged with the hundred doses earlier and with the hundred and twenty instalments now, the possibility for debtors to repay and we have said - what I said to you, they are few - who can now pay from all the farmers who are debtors. With the arrangements that we are doing, there are indeed few left, if these debtors are now integrated, who will remain in a situation of debtors. That's what I told you and don't paraphrase what I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u49	Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u50	I will not deal with the inaccuracies that the Minister has told us again so that he does not finally answer what he will do, such as the lie he said that I was a State Secretary. I had nothing to do with the insurance system and the funds in place. From there, however, you should know that, from 2013 onwards, not only have accumulated debts been created, but, from there on, the problem is exacerbating. Because if by 2013 there was a world covered by the 4 000 provision, and that has now become 5 000, 6 000, 7 000 - I am not talking about any more amounts, I am talking about - 8 000, it is due in the last four years. Today you have a birthday for the three years. In the three years you think you have not created accumulated debts with the refusal to do this or with other policies? Has overtaxation not affected either the insurance contributions or the farmers or the other professionals? Where do you live? Today, Mr. Tsipras is going to wipe out the three candles with Mrs. Lagard of the IMF you've been scorning. I think that you should leave what you say about the past - because it is not your interest, for that reason - and tell us today if there are many people in the end and I play it as a populist and I address many people and it must be solved. Are there too many of them? That's the point. Or are there some dozens, which in any case can be solved in another way? You said the great inaccuracy. We were giving - he says - the right of a hundred and twenty instalments. Who? To the person who has completed the retirement years, make adjustments to the hundred and twenty and get a pension? You excluded it. The fact that he cannot apply for retirement because he is subject to other provisions. He can't apply for retirement. The application for a pension is strictly provided for in the rules of the law that it will be done in a specific way. You said forty doses and more. Can we find a common place, as we had found it in April 2015, and the 20,000 we had done 50,000? After your mutation you came and got it back, you redownloaded it to 20,000. You remember that? You didn't remember to say that. You remember saying in 2013 that the 15,000, which was for the OAED, we did 20, 000, why was that really a need? Minister, don't bring that up again. They don't honor you. Tell us clearly what the obstacle is. Didn't you negotiate with the partners? Did you negotiate and lose? Did you sign blindly? Tell us. That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u51	The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasios Petropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u52	The country's government in charge erases the three candles, with the whole planet, which understands that Greece's course is at last a course of development, Mr Kegeroglou. And Mrs. Lagard and any official who accepts this course is not a shame on us, it is an honor for the country. Don't worry about everything. I've told you the numbers, and finally, I'll tell you one more time. It is also a matter for the Bureau to sit down and see how these debates are to be held. In other words, I cannot ask for the eighth time on an issue, which I answer with new elements, which are simply for the benefit of the previous ones. It doesn't change anything in my answers. You cannot bring me every time to tell you the same thing, because I will reveal your own policy, which was undemocratic and disastrous. Because that comes out of the evidence. Farmers’ debtors and other professional debtors have not now been created. I have said that 87% of the total debtors were created until 31 December 2014 and especially for farmers were over 90% in this period. It's not possible to ask me, like you don't know what's going on and what's what we're doing. What we are doing is that we have repeatedly taken the initiative to create. Obviously, our initiative was from June to September 2015 to raise the threshold to 50,000 and there, unfortunately, a small number of stakeholders joined. The deadline was very limited. It was not unlimited to tell me that we abolished a provision on the scope of the debt up to 50,000. It was in September 2015. Those who came in came in, and they serve. We have not abolished their right, as we have set it, on our own initiative at that time, to be able to enter these arrangements up to EUR 50,000. One hundred and thirty thousand are the farmers who are debtors, with a sum of less than 4,000 euros. They can therefore be integrated and there is no prohibition on the possibility of entering into the new regulation, which we have been implementing since the first days of February. We will do other things that we take the initiative to implement and legislate and not because you ask. Because you ask things that you should know and are the consequences of your own policy and your own initiatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u53	I hope next Thursday you can be here again!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Minister. We enter the debate of the first under No 882/23-1-2018 topical question of the second-round question of the Parliamentary Kastoria of the New Republic, Maria Antonios, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Enhancement of the Regional Unit of Kastoria". Mrs. Antoniou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am basically returning for the fourth time to Parliament on the major issue of the improvements in the region of Western Macedonia, particularly in Kastoria and the enormous delays in their implementation. My Question No 1631/2015 has been preceded by my timely question, my Question No 4501/2016 and my Question No 6598/2017 and the application for documents, in which I expressed to you the enormous importance of the Nestorian dam, which, together with the study of a dam's irrigation network, is one of the most efficient works in the country and the intense concern and anguish, not only of the rural world, but of all the inhabitants of the Castoria Prefecture for the major delays observed in the implementation of these projects. It closes three years today, as colleagues have said, since you took over the country's governance and you have done nothing in this very important project and in many others in my prefecture, and already since your first answer in 2015, you have said about the total lack of irrigation projects in the region. So I start from the great development work of the region, the Nestorian dam, a project which will change the image of the whole prefecture, which can also raise more money from the European Union than its accompanying projects, which some count to 30 million. At the moment, however, I am being informed that it has been frozen for almost three years, that is, as long as you are in the governance of the country. It is a project launched in 2011 and has been implemented until now about 30% of the contract project. In fact, I was informed that on 26 October 2017 the contractor requested dissolution of the contract, which has become yours again. So given the great concern of the people of Kastoria and not only of the farmers, because this project is also about irrigation but also about energy production, I ask you again, Minister, what you intend to do with this project. The second question concerns the study of irrigation network from the Nestorian dam. You replied to me that the Committee on Evaluation of Applicants for Interest in entrusting a study in March 2015, where members were replaced - three years now - had never met. You answered that. Will you answer us what is really happening and what is the study of a dam's irrigation network? I have to say that this study was auctioned on 14-1-2014. For three years nothing has happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u57	My colleague, I will not say that you are not interested in the project. I accept your concern, I also accept your remarks on the delay. Of course, you forgot to say what had happened in previous years. But it doesn't matter. Right now, what matters is to see what we do. I will start my response to the criteria you mentioned in your question, which will qualify for these improvements, because, as you have seen, we are talking about a dam and we are still not in the process of seeing what is going to happen with the network. Because one of the many problems that we have today inherited is that we are pressing, especially in cases where we have dam projects, which are under way and there is no provision for the networks. This is a big issue that concerns us. However, with regard to the improvement projects to be integrated, we had already started before the problem of heresy was solved. You know that there is a great issue of heresy, so that we can move on with the enhancement of projects. However, we have nevertheless informed all the regions, where there are projects in progress, that they will be prepared. They have gathered from many regions, from many regions. In this case, we are talking about projects which, on the basis of the criteria that we have established - I will read out what are the criteria - will be carried out in order to see how much we can satisfy, because the money we have at our disposal is certainly much less than what we need. There will therefore be a hierarchy of projects, based on the degree of environmental impact, based on the economic stability of projects, complementarity, in relation to existing investments. Because, as you can see - and especially in this case - when we have a barrier that is under way, we will certainly have additional criteria for the projects that are being asked today and, more generally, I would say to you to the degree of maturity. So, as far as the action of the programme is concerned, after the elimination of heresy, which has already been done on 31-12-2017. We couldn't do anything further forward. From there on, when this concentration and processing is completed based on the criteria, soon in the first half of 2018, there will be the notice of this project. Now, with regard to your second question concerning the progress and the problem we have, it is really very serious. There's an evaluation committee. I'll tell you about the process in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u58	Mrs. Antoniou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u59	You have straight away - and rightly so - raised the first question, which I wanted to put in my dentistry, Minister. But you did not really answer the questions. That is why I call on you today in the House to give me answers on the big issue of the Nestorian dam, in which, unfortunately, I did not get an answer. I have not even received a reply for the study of the irrigationist, which has been about your own governance for three years. You said in your protology that we hadn't planned the irrigation networks. But it turns out from your answers, Minister, that we on 14-1-2014 had auctioned the dam's irrigation network study, the one anticipated by the dam. We have already had practical - as you say - in three months' time. Once you've taken over the rule of this place for three years, from what you've found, you haven't moved anything. A committee of assessment has again been set up, but three years has not happened. You answer me yourself that the irrigation auction was opened on 14 January, that in March we had practical, objectioned, accepted etc. You answer me. This was all done in 2014. In the three years that you rule the place, you did not tell us what you are doing with this work. Nothing. Zero. So let's go to the second question you've answered, because you asked the region to provide you with some data. And you mention what works, obviously, the Region of Western Macedonia prefers. In the table you notified me, I see that out of the 120 million proposed projects, only ten relate to the Prefecture of Kastoria. How will you ensure that there is a equal distribution? Do we have the same needs throughout the region? Since I am given the opportunity, I would also like to ask you on the other issue, which I have asked you for, which you and the Prime Minister yourself are committed to, for young farmers. You promised that in the West Macedonia region, the three hundred and fifty-eight people who are entitled to join the programme will join them. It's been six months - you'll tell me it hasn't been three years, right! - and it's still nothing. I am waiting for your replies, Minister, given that the budget available was 12 million. We therefore need to find 6 million for young farmers. So do you intend to implement these commitments, which you yourself mentioned in the Production Reconstruction Conference, and the Prime Minister himself announced it there? When do you intend to implement your commitments? Lies again? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u60	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u61	You have a tactic in the parliamentary scrutiny of the topical questions, which is a short time, two, three minutes, to raise so many issues and actually to turn the question into a question of a parliamentary nature. But I'll answer that. The president will give me the opportunity. Young farmers: the process was normally carried out, in consultation with Regional Government, and we said that in those regions where there is no possibility of absorbing all the money in the first phase, they will be given the opportunity to reopen for the rest...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u62	You didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u63	Let me get to what you're saying. ...how much they haven't gotten. So we expect - we have announced this in consultation with the region - to see what will get away from this process from the regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u64	This is also about Ioannina.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u65	We already have a stock, we have retained something, for the cases of the people involved. In this case, particularly for western Macedonia, because of the high unemployment that exists and because of the region being in a transition, I would say, at this time, for those who are entrepreneurial, the Prime Minister pledged that their request for membership will be met. However, we cannot declare the next phase for the participants, for the very simple reason that procedures have not been completed, which will enable us to make more money out of there, plus what we have already kept for the next phase, to be able to satisfy as much as possible. And it is not just the farmers in western Macedonia. We have across Greece, in half the regions, entrepreneurs, who are also waiting for them. We can't do separate procedures. That is what I think needs to be understood. From there on...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u66	There will be more money from the regions, in other words. That's what you're telling me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u67	You see that you do not yet know that we have granted 37.5% of rural development funds, close to 1.7 billion, to regional government and we manage and sit down and tell me that we are now getting money from the regions. I don't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u68	You said they'd get over it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u69	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u70	We are in a process of consultation with the regions. From there on, I would like to say the following: indeed this issue with the Nestorian dam is a big problem. Unfortunately, however, the committee that we have set up cannot respond to this project. We're concerned. I will give you one of the parallel letters, where together with the Secretary-General we are disturbing the committee, so that we can see what we are going to do. We'll give them the opportunity for another two months. I'll call everybody to tell them that at last, this thing has to go ahead. If the committee is not able to do so, we are currently studying until we give a technical consultant the specific procedure. Of course you know, it's not a matter any more...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u71	Three years...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u72	Please! He's telling you news now. I call it a journalist. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u73	...but it's regional. And let us not take this as an opportunity to say - and particularly from the New Democracy point of view - that the Rural Development Programme is being delayed. If I had time, I would give you information on the absorption of the Rural Development Programme, which is indeed a pleasant surprise to the European Commission. However, we shall also talk tomorrow about the question he has tabled - and we very much welcome it - on agricultural policy, on the basis of the democratic co-responsibility. There will also be an opportunity to inform the rural world of what we are doing and what has happened in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u74	All right, I'll see you at the Western-Greek conference. We continue with the second with number 868/19-1-2018, a topical question from the MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Reimbursements by the farmers of Argolida for damages caused by hails". Mr. Maniotis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u75	Mr Minister, on 16 June and 8 November we had in Argolida two serious messengers. I'm sure you've already been informed by your services. The problem with the two specific hails is this: The quartz size was very large and to an extent of about nine thousand acres were both devastated. And another very large part of the Argolian camp had, either in June or November, a single hailfall. Especially in cases where we had the double quarries, the disaster exceeded 80%. The negative effects of these events were as follows: first, we had a very large quartz size. Secondly, these ruins coincided with the time of the fruit maturation. Thirdly, right after the hail, we were constantly raining. All these negative circumstances led to the creation of secondary negative effects, which were the fall of fruits, the development of fungi and bacteria, etc. A few days ago, the Department of Agricultural Economy and Veterinary Department of the Regional Unit of Argolida deposited a conclusion to us, the MPs, and to your services. So what I'm going to tell you is a suggestion of state services. So what do the services say? That we must proceed immediately, quickly, to assess the level of damage and, more quickly, to compensate farmers. But there is also a second point, Mr Minister, which requires your personal political intervention. Due to the fact that the farmers in our country and, of course, the Argolina farmers bear a heavy burden because of the government's tax system and because of the insurance contributions, the request that is made is as follows: in the compensation to be granted, it is not taken into account that the premium that the farmers have declared to the IAEA was the smallest possible, which was the hammering, but in a fair way, to make an assessment of the actual damage, so that the Argolida farmer also feels fair when compensation is being made. I understand that this requires your political intervention. But you should know that this is a demand that is entirely in line with the public's feeling of law. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u76	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u77	Mr Colleague, I understand your interest and your anxiety. However, there is an ELGA regulation, which provides for estimates to be made and for compensation to be paid. I begin with the last thing you have put in, because the compensation cannot exceed this annual income, which was in these cases. So now taking the piece that goes for the juice, from which part is destroyed, but there is some income from this process, we cannot ignore it. I see that you are making a reference and say: 'The suggestions of the DAG will be taken into account'? Who told the DAGs that they have the right to indicate? Finding out, assessing the damage, yes. The level of compensation and how it will be paid is only a matter of the ELGA. It has a specific regulation, which - as you know - operates in the logic of recompense and to date has no support from state resources, but is money from farmers themselves. As you can see, in this process, let us leave the chief minister's political initiative to work the regulations, because we cannot do any different, let alone when we are at a time when the damage, unfortunately, - others are invoking climate change, it is not a matter of where they come from - they are much larger than what we currently have as a chance to deal with. Nevertheless, in 2017, for example, the ELGA increased the compensation by 30%. We've got stocks from the ELGA. Next year we will be entering a process of proportional studies, which we will take into account and damages that we do not cover until now, but at the same time how climate conditions are now shaping in our country, in order to adapt the entire operation process of the ELGA. So, we've already been on a course of appreciation. Thirty-three thousand declarations have been made, applications have been lodged, labels and announcements have been made. At this point, the process of the findings is complete - the damages are one of the ones we have been unresolved since April 2017 - and the first ones we will pay after February 1st, where the new payment period of 2018 begins, they will also be the ones that concern your region.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Maniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u79	Minister, you gave half the answer. The first thing I would like to repeat, as a question, is this: can you commit yourself to the Argolida farmers in a period of one, two or three months at the latest - why do these people want money to cultivate, they have started a new growing season - will they get compensation, yes or no? The second question, which I admit I do not understand, is that on the one hand, in a very strict, pedagogical way, you gave orders to the services not to suggest to your Ministry. Obviously, they have a duty to recommend and indicate by the state's decentralized services. I don't understand it. Did you tell us that only the central agency of the Ministry can decide and does not accept the suggestions of the regional authorities? Obviously - I want to hope so - you missed this wording in a word, because it would be absurd not to accept the suggestions made by the regional authorities. Thirdly: Minister, the ELGA regulation has not been written into stone, it is not Moses' orders. The ELGA regulation can change, much more so that we all recognise that climate change in recent years has created new conditions, which had not been taken into account when the ELGA regulation was drafted. Therefore, instead of asking for our assistance, and for counter-population, in order to convince the financial staff of your own government, but also the European Commission as a whole, to have more money in compensation, which is objectively beyond normal damages, you are now coming and defending a regulation which you yourself confess to having to revise. Therefore, you will also proceed with review studies. I would therefore ask you, in your dentext, to answer us: firstly, when compensation is to be granted and secondly, to allow for legal intervention - it is not only about Argolida, it is also about other regions - when the damages exceed the large percentages which we have learned so far and now reach 80% of the extremities. Much more - and I say this, because our President is from an area where there are citrus fruits - when we know very well that hail, when it falls twice in the same year, breaks up everything. We therefore want, Mr Minister, to allow for compensation, not on the basis of the criteria and the premium for juicemaking - the quantities which went for juicement - but on the basis of the actual objective damage suffered by the Argolida farmers. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u80	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u81	To solve the misunderstanding, I always interpret words with what they render. Indicate in your question: "Will you implement the suggestions of the DRL for disconnecting the compensation calculation from its juice price and linking it to the actual damage?". This means that it suggests that the DRL does not calculate the amount of revenue resulting from the juicement in the calculation of the damage. There's nothing wrong with it, but there's nothing wrong with the DAC to make such suggestions. How compensation is to be paid is the sole responsibility of the ELGA. I am sure the services are entering the assessment process, sending their assessments, and from there on, the findings are being drawn up and in relation to the IACC declarations, through the OPEKEP. It's a process that's time-consuming, why? Because things are very strict in terms of an ELGA regulation, which you have brought. The fact that we disagree, yes, we disagree. However, we cannot, as political leadership, interpret a regulation which operates exclusively in the sense of reciprocity. We will arrive tomorrow - tomorrow you will be there and you will give up for us, because we have eaten the ELGA money, without using them through the reward function, as is the regulation. That we need to see the regulation again, yes, we'll see him. We have set up a working group, because we have problems, there are too many damages, which were not covered by the regulation and we must definitely put these damages in place. But can we, without proportionate studies, proceed to such a procedure? So we're going that way, and I'm saying it, so we can get this straight. As far as compensation is concerned, I once again told you that the findings have been completed and that we, starting from February 1st, will make payments and in a process that we have many loose ends, especially since spring and summer 2017, do you realize that we will try, as soon as possible, to proceed. If it's not on February 1st, it'll be March 1st, and I'm sure they'll all be paid by April. You realise that I cannot tell you exactly when, because we currently have areas such as western Macedonia, with huge problems, we have payments to peaches, cherries, which were made at the same time in spring. Well, there's money. In the budget we have anticipated everything by going to the logic that by September, if we are in trouble, on the possibility of the ELGA budget, we will ask, as we did last year, for approval to increase it by 30%, of course always on the basis of the reserves and the logic of the compensation that ELGA serves.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u82	An 11th question will now be discussed under number 749/8-1-2018, a topical question from the Member of Parliament, Kosanis, of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Kasapidis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the upgrading of agricultural education in Greece. Mr. Kasapidis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, it is interesting the issues raised to you by my fellow Members concerning my region too. However, I will confine myself to the issue that I have raised today, to present us with the position and drafting of the government and to discuss, on agricultural education, and how you understand this huge chapter for Greek society and, in particular, for farmers' society. It is acceptable from all modern economists and sociologists that education and, more generally, the knowledge factor is the fourth factor of production in the primary sector. Also, time intervals, in which knowledge is doubled, are increasing. This is also what this factor, agricultural education, plays in the agricultural production part. In view of the fact that our country is basically an import country into agri-food products - more than 60% of agri-food products have been imported for at least two decades - you can see how important it is for them to appear and be implemented immediately - it should have been years ago, but I am asking for your position - an agricultural education plan to quickly upgrade the producers' skills and educational level, to make them more productive, more competitive and to be able to meet the challenges of the market and the climate change that you have been talking about before. Also, in the context of this question, I wanted to tell you and propose some solutions with practical interest, which relate to the introduction of the 'green degree', as is the case in many European countries, which is attributed to the professional farmers concerned through school education in conjunction with agricultural education. I'll give you some other suggestions in my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u84	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I agree with you that, especially in a difficult period like the one we are experiencing, the agricultural sector is one of those who can offer a professional way out of young people. This is something we are asking, especially when we all know that the ageing of the rural population is one of the biggest problems. We should therefore prepare and serve procedures to stimulate the interest of young people and give them more opportunities through education and, of course, through incentives. A moment ago, we said about the incentives given to young people, in consultation with the European Commission, which is not just money, to get into the profession, but there are also particular criteria that we are putting into improvement plans and, in general, investments in rural areas. So, since we want young people to join, and at the same time we want the agri-food sector to play an important role in the country's productive reconstruction, we need to see what we are going to do with the schools that we have, and we are operating now, and of course, what more we can offer. Schools are those six. I don't need to tell you any more. An effort is being made at this time on the part of the Ministry of Education in consultation with us, to see what we are going to do. Of these six schools, already three - four are able to educate young farmers and train them in important areas of Greek agriculture. In this respect, therefore, what you mentioned as a 'green degree', we have already made it specific. Starting from areas such as Epirus - in particular, to refer to the Dairy School - but also throughout Greece, we join them at a university level, giving them a two-year degree through the link with the local universities. Of course, the graduates of professional high school in the rural area, which are currently in existence, must be included in these schools, so that they can continue there for another two years. In connection with the universities, but also with the areas where we can provide them with the corresponding training, in consultation with the Ministry of Education at all times, I would say that we can serve this objective.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Kasapidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as I understand it, you are linking technical training to the professional schools of the Ministry of Agriculture. In my opinion, it is right and it is very important that technical high school and technical education be upgraded in the country, with particular emphasis on theoretical training in schools, in technical schools, along with workshops, which will prepare the candidate professional farmers concerned to attend these schools of the Ministry of Agriculture or even - as is the case abroad - to recognise on the basis of strict quality criteria some teaching farms, teaching farms, where abroad they can do their practice, in the sight of apprenticeship. It is another institution, which you should seriously consider in the Ministry of Agriculture to adopt and implement in agricultural education, so that by ending the technical high school, together with two other years, as mentioned above, in these schools or in other teaching farms and farms, the number of young people able to complete these studies and take the 'green degree'. The importance of the 'green degree' for many, Mr Minister, is also a key criterion which determines the professional status of farmers. It is right for me too, instead of having this accounting criterion of income if it is over 50% of agriculture and characterising a professional farmer, that is to change and allow someone who has vocational training through the 'green degree' to be regarded as a professional farmer and that he has all the benefits of the Greek state or of the European Union. This, Minister, will perhaps be the biggest part that any minister could have done. I hope you'll see it seriously, and you'll start it. I also believe that other actions can be taken earlier in the context of school education in relation to agricultural education, to speed up and increase this dynamic in Greek society, in order to address the problems that I have mentioned, the strong deficit in our balance, the desertification of the countryside, the ageing of the countryside, and to cultivate this spirit of familiarity with agriculture from still schools. Previously, from reports from our parents, there were school gardens in schools and especially in the mountain areas and in the Greek countryside, where children became familiar with agricultural activities and were familiar and pleasant, then professionally seen. Here it is very important, like the 'green degree', that, Minister, this possibility be given to start shaping the model of the Greek farmer in Greek society through schools, so that it is attractive and not hideous, which unfortunately has been done over the last few decades. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u89	Just fill in. I think we have in particular agreed on the 'green' degree. It's a process that I think is very helpful. However, we also have the Rural Development Programme, measure 1, which, based on Law 4384/2016, enables us, of course, in consultation with the Ministry of Education to create new skills, based on the situation that is being shaped and the needs of the agri-food sector. It is a measure which will benefit young farmers very much, especially those who will join different measures, in various projects. That is why I told you earlier that it is not just accession, but we are looking after young farmers because the biggest problem is the third year, the fourth year. Then there are too many difficulties. We are trying, as far as possible, to incorporate the farmers into projects, into investment opportunities that will ensure them, I would say, in general, a minimum sustainable income. So, then, and from there, we will move to take advantage of this measure and, at the same time, of course, because ELGA is an agency that has as its main aim the education and training of farmers, we have the “Dimitra” centers throughout Greece. Their function is problematic, because in many cases there is no response. On the other hand, we have areas which ask us to integrate specific professional activities. The logic there is is from local communities to have students. The logic, as you can imagine, does not serve what we want, to have farmers who are trained for this purpose. However, I think we agree that we should consider education and training for young farmers as the basic foundation for the operation of agricultural activity. In other words, we would say that it is necessary to upgrade the staff employed in agriculture today as we have ever had to serve.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u90	We will now discuss the ninth under number 847/16-1-2018 the topical question of the second question of the New Democracy MP, Georgios Stylios, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Annobria and shortcomings in irrigation infrastructures are dramatically reducing the income of olive growers". Mr. Style, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, one of the most important places in my country's agricultural activity, in Arta, but also in Greece, is olive cultivation. It is a emblematic product, as you know, olive oil and oil. The olive tree of Arta has been recognised as a geographical indication product since 1994. Geographical estimates show that this year production will be reduced by 50%, and where there is no irrigation infrastructure, the reduction will reach 70%. The cause of this drastic loss is the significant shortages in irrigation infrastructure in conjunction with protracted anomaly and high temperatures in recent months. The existing irrigation infrastructure, such as the Kompot's irrigation Peta and irrigation networks in the plain of Arta, is not sufficient or complete. Local studies, which had previously been carried out, provided for the construction of pumping stations for the irrigation of the semi-terrestrial areas. These are projects that would address important issues that producers have been increasingly facing in recent years. So while a large number of individual olive growers have addressed ELGA this year, they have not found a response - why did they not find a response? - since no natural disaster or certain extreme weather conditions had taken precedence to justify compensation, in accordance with the Statutes and Rules of Procedure of the ELGA. Since more than 80% of the olive groves in the Arta Law are non-irrigational, producers are in despair. So you ask yourself, Minister: do you think olive cultivation is important to the local economy? If so, in what ways do you intend to help the oil producers? Are you going to go ahead with their immediate financial support? I'll come back to my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u92	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u93	Mr Colleague, olive oil and oil are one of the most important activities and products in our country. I think that not only at national level, but also at European Commission level, there are aids, there are possibilities to set up producer groups, associations of producers, etc., actions which can help them, and to the point where they can be promoted. They have many operators on international markets. I would particularly like to say to you that we have a three-year programme, which concerns the olive-growing organisations in the area, which is starting. By 15 February, they have been informed to submit their plan and, of course, from 1 February onwards. So there is a support - I would say - in terms of promotion. With regard to the irrigation projects you mention, we are in a country where the issue of heresy is over and several proposals are already coming from regions. I will repeat again that they will be brought together on the basis of criteria which will not be arbitrary, based on the needs that exist, the outstanding ones. Especially in the enhancement projects, you should know that more than 30% to 35% have been committed by projects that were integrated into the realisation process. We cannot continue these projects, why do you realize that if we stop them, we will be told: “What are you doing? Bring the money back." So we are moving in that direction. In particular, because you refer to Koboti, to Peta and everything, first of all, this part is not the responsibility of our Ministry, but I shall pass on the question, so that we too can be informed, because at least in the matter of serving the purpose of these projects we have a similar view. As far as the rest of the enhancements are concerned, we will be waiting. In a month, two months' time will come for the relevant notice, so I think you should be briefed, so that we can get the proposals as far as possible. From that point on, we'll decide when the time comes. You put a piece in the backup. Let's leave it for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u94	Here, Mr. Style, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much. Minister, first of all, you know that I am in favour of consensus, composition and I see your position positively and positively. I, too, talked about earlier studies. Obviously, I do not know where these studies are, i.e. whether they are in your Ministry, or if they are in another Ministry, in the Ministry of Industry, in the Infrastructure. We do not know whether it is up-to-date, what budget these studies have and how they can be implemented. I would like to give you the stimulus - and I am pleased with your response - to see what was in the drawers, to update it together with the information that I will make from the Ministry to local bodies, to the region, to the district, to the district, to the relevant municipalities, but also to the cooperatives and producers, to put this issue back on top of topicality with infrastructure, with irrigation networks, with pumps and so forth for such a very important production. In relation to my second question, with the aid, you know, Minister, that the European Commission made a press release in October, allowing five more countries - among them Greece - to choose to pay advances in aid from 16 October of the year in question up to 50% of the total amount of direct payments and up to 75% of rural development aid. So, first of all, has these beneficial arrangements been used for olive growers for this year, which is a given thing? Secondly, given that the decline in production is going to appear more and more frequently due to climate change, do you intend to introduce legislation after some specific few amounts of rain and anomalous for months to come? Do you intend to include it in the ELGA regulation so that the olive growers can be compensated? And thirdly, do you intend to raise this issue with the European Commission and secure funds because of climate change, which will be given to specific crops? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u96	So do we. Finish, Minister, put the poster in your presence here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u97	The ELGA has been informed of the damage. Appreciators went. But what has arisen is that the damage you mentioned is not covered by the insurance risks provided for by the ELGA. We therefore need to look for specific aid from other sources. In this case, these sources also presuppose the preparation of a dossier that will document the damage not only in terms of height, but also in terms of where it came from, the causes. This is all a process known to farmers, for which the term PSEA is used. In other words, it is aid from the state budget through a procedure for the adoption of the dossier by the European Commission. This process is developing right now. Keep in mind that what will be taken into account will be an issue which, unfortunately, is in the rural area. When looking for a loss of income, we must resort to the income recorded in previous years. We all know that, unfortunately, things do not lead to assessments and compensations that really exist, but we must take account of these facts. We are on this path and when this process is completed - do not expect it to be completed before the two years and I tell you why the procedures in the European Commission are very different from ours - we will draw up the dossier and submit it. I believe that if the European Commission tells us in time 'okay', then we will have the possibility of getting out of the memoranda and the crisis to meet these needs of the budget. With regard to the other part, to see how we will incorporate the risks that are not secured in the ELGA, I said that a team has been set up, we are discussing it. There is also the great problem of climate change. But all this requires scientific evidence. The European Commission - I am closing with this, Mr President - for the past two, three years, it has been discussing climate change, its impact on agriculture, but on the crucial issue, how the damage will be covered and whether it can provide exceptional support, although we insist, has not yet been seen. In this direction, we need a great deal of battle.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Minister. The fifth question, under number 917/23-1-2018, on the second question of the Piraeus II cycle of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Protection and Safety Measures for the Life and Health of Workers in the Shipbuilding Area", will not be debated as a result of an impediment by the Minister responsible. Also, the second question under number 1586/27-11-2017 of the circle of petitions, the MP Drama of the New Democracy, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the "Decision of the Board of Directors of the Centre for Social Welfare of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace to expel trainees in the Department of Physical Rehabilitation and Vocational Education (ERC)" will not be discussed as a result of an impediment from the relevant Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u100	Here you go, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, I will also invoke your sensitivity because since November this issue has been boring families, it is sensitive and it concerns children with disabilities who have been expelled since November. By way of question came the timeline here today. My presence here is the point of pressing the Minister, in any case, to be concerned about this issue. Guys, who have been there for five years and have suddenly been expelled, with the encouragement to go to private schools to ensure them. The reasoning was that the necessary safety conditions were not available.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u102	You raised the question. You're just saying that the Minister should come and answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u103	That's exactly what I'm saying. I wish no family, no parent has that kind of pressure. They're our children and we need that interest to exist. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u104	Thank you. We now move on to the debate of the third under No 870/22-1-2018 on a topical question of the Second Cycle of the Parliamentary Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Kefalidou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'New travel tickets with the Public Transport of Athena Ticket affliction of beneficiaries of a reduced ticket'. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Those of us who do not use their car and we are circulating on public transport, the electricity and the metro, have themselves become witness to a great suffering suffered by the passenger. If someone's watching it on TV, he might think he's watching Woody Allen's comedy. However, these endless tails, the citizens of the islands of the morning being able to have electronic tickets, at least during the first days of implementing the measure, were images which were truly sad, and which are not honoured to any of us. The first days, however, passed and reverted to the official page of the public transport media in Athens, we see that in mid-November 2017 you said that the old tickets and cards are abolished, we are now using the new forms of travel tickets. It's December, the tails were on. The year's over, the system's still not normalized. What is to blame is that it is also about you and not just the citizens who are really troubled. At some point, then, the whole process becomes a reality, but a reality that has so much trouble to monopolize interest on both the Internet and the press and the media. So let's go on November 20th, when it is announced that the gradual closure of the gates will begin at the metro and ISAP stations, except for one portal per station. The same will be done at the airport station. There will be staff, says OSCE, at each station to serve passengers and it will be announced that the gates will be closed on December 20, 2017. Obviously, the issue of the new ticket was organized on the basis of a reasoning that the state must escape the multitude of these people who are jamballs. I have to tell you that your government nurtured them and excavated them with the "I do not pay" movement, and that was not just in the public transport, but was extended to all their obligations towards the state. You then baptized all this activist action and political act of resistance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Jackets always existed, to be honest, but you and you legalized it and took off the system. The question is: Did you achieve something with the issue of the new ticket? So far I'd tell you that no, because we're about three months away from the first application, the gates are still open, the supply and payment of tickets for us who traditionally want to be okay and expect to buy it, is still a Golgotha in this class, those who are sworn jams, you've added now some who want to pay the ticket that they're obliged to pay, that is, reduced, but that's not there. Let me say that the reduced ticket is addressed to social classes, such as the elderly over sixty-five, students, students, students, LEADER, multitudes, classes of people who really need special treatment, and you, as a government, are cut off that you are the only political body that protects and ensures their decent living. The issue of these reduced tickets is only made by the publishers, which you know very well. Three notes on the way publishing houses operate: first note, that there are no publications at all stations. Note second, that what exists openly usually operates with only one employee. The third is that it's an unsolved mystery what their hours are.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u106	Mrs. Kefalidou, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u107	Allow me two minutes, Mr President. It's the last question. It's about a lot of people. Mr. Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u108	You have two minutes now and three minutes of dentology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, we will not have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u110	Don't waste it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u111	I heard the Minister, because he's in front, the TVs giving explanations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, let go, since it is the last question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u113	We have legislative work, Minister, after. We have a different procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Spirtzi, thank you for your attention. There are two charges, as you understand. Permanent public transport customers, who will be inconvenienced once, will get a monthly unlimited journey card, close their subject matter. But what about those who make occasional use or those who are residents outside Athens and sometimes come to Athens and want to move? So in front of them - and let me say it - a ridiculous dilemma arises: will they necessarily be galantic or forced jams? And now the question I would like you to answer is: Why, first of all, does the citizen suffer with this endless expectation of ticketing and on what basis do you oblige the payees of a reduced ticket to pay twice as much price as the automatic machines do not issue reduced tickets, otherwise they are illegal?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u115	Good. Mr. Minister has the floor. Please! The same rules apply to everyone!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u116	So, who's the fault of it? Are the system you have chosen inadequate and cannot make reduced tickets, or are you and people inadequate at the same time because you are dealing with citizens like this? Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen - and colleagueship has a double character because you are an electrical engineer, that is to say, we are colleagues, as parliamentarians and as engineers...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u119	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u120	...I would like to congratulate you on your social sensitivity, and you had it over time. But I heard you mention some descriptions, which have probably removed the capacity of electric engineer from your capacity, at least in terms of thinking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u121	I didn't hear you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u122	I say you have forgotten the capacity of electric engineer in your thinking. I shall therefore reply to the last question and then refer to your thinking. My dear colleague, when you make an electronic system and an automation system that is not for everyone's home, but it is for millions of citizens, you must have general rules. The general rule, therefore, is that anyone who is entitled to a special tariff policy must be known in the system, not where he goes, but where he is cutting off a reduced ticket, that he is entitled to a zero ticket or reduced ticket. Therefore, it was designed and there is the personalized card. It takes three minutes for a civilian to take her out with a personal presence in any publishing room at any station. In the last month there has been an electronic application, following the change in the report of the Privacy Authority which has not allowed us to have such an application since the beginning and not to have the phenomenon of the tails and suffering of the citizens. It is obvious that the LEADs, the students, the students who are entitled to it are making a personalised card. In fact, a mass version of these cards has been foreseen with the Ministry of Labour. That is the only reason, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises and the unemployed, who have not yet closed doors. The second reason is that there must be a period for the citizen using public transport and for ticketing and, of course, for the use of the system and the electronic card. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] So it would be nice to go over the last few days for a walk from the stations or move around. The system is fully normalized. If someone wants to get a card, whether they're on a special charge or not, they're making an electronic request from their house and the card is sent to their house. There's no wormhole. And with regard to reduced tickets, if anyone wants to issue a ticket or a few tickets, he goes to a publishing room and publishes them. If he wants to move permanently, he goes and takes out a personalized card in three minutes or comes to his house. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] From there on, because you said too much, right now there are no machines in the world that make tickets and automatically detect the machines - this is for you as an electrician - that someone is unemployed or retired or student. That's why there's a personalized card. That's what I'm guessing, and a non-expert. And because you said a lot, I come to who the system planned. The system, Mr President, was designed in 2011.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u123	The President may have heard it, I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u124	Designed in 2011. I'm just reminding you. Adoption of an Interministerial Council in 2011, amendment of a decision to refer by the Interministerial Committee in 2011, adoption of specifications and tendering techniques in 2011. When was that settled? On 29-12-2014. The administration that you had supported, put in the fridge from 2011 to 2014, the application of the online ticket and made new years to sign the contract that provided for so nice things, like what you described before. Obviously, you also want to forget this and more. What do you want to forget? You want to forget - and here I am going to blame you for a slight despicability, despite your social sensitivity - that these burdens on jams, which the government of SYRIZA boasted with the 'I do not pay' movement, are likely to have hosted other phenomena than old communism, whether those were public works and concessions or urban transport. And it was the movement that was organized very well, the "pay much more", much more in public works, much more concessions, with zero discounts and much more in urban transport with the circuits that were in there and no one ever made sure to dismantle them. I don't know if it's fallen into your perception, it's written by some media, the party that's been going, not by the people you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u125	Minister, you've taken twice a year. You have to hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u126	Mrs. Kefalidou too, Mr. President. I'll tell my dentist. Mrs. Kefalidou, you should probably remember or be informed of how the system works, to inform the citizens, who have the discount right at EUR 0.60, to get a personalised card out of their home and to get the card to their home post office, free of charge or otherwise will go to show the gossip that they are entitled to the reduced ticket and they will buy it from there. The technology hasn't gone that far so far that it's got automatic retired tracking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u127	Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, let me tell you that I really am - because I hear you for two days and on television trying to explain the unexplained - here we are not just talking about the electronic ticket. We are talking about the reduced electronic ticket, which concerns the special category of citizens, for which the suffering is still great. Get on the internet - I'm doing this - on the date 8 January, 12 January and see the great suffering people are pulling into cars. They do not have the possibility of a combined movement, as they do not have the possibility of being able to go to work in a specific time. And the worst you know what it is? Preparing the question, I was randomly found with a student who came down from Volos. Let me tell you a story of everyday madness. This girl's coming Friday night. He enters at 6:00 at Volos C.E., at 22:00, is in Athens. Minister, at 2 p.m., the only publishing room that makes a reduced ticket on its way to Agia Paraskevi, which goes this kid, is Omonia. For children and half a minute, it's very important. The parents don't have the money they could give anymore. We're in other times. You know very well that 1,40 euros is the whole ticket and 0,60 euros the reduced one. So the girl enters the Upper Patisia, doesn't get a ticket, smuggled into the subway, arrives in the Omonia, climb-down suitcases, get out of the publishing room, because they're the only ones that are open until 22.15 seconds, get the reduced ticket, get to the Mint sometime, 45 minutes wait for the bus. And when it's good that we've caught at midnight and there's no urban bus, she's leaving with a bus going to the airport, paying 3 euros to get home after two and a half hours. And instead of paying 0.60 euros for this whole route, he pays 4 euros. I don't know if he says anything about you, but he says it's a great shame to me. We want to be or at some point become a modern European state and we are still behind the sun. That's an insult. Do you know why this is an insult? Why do you consider them a pretext for thieves, and that is why you do not give them any possibility. When the publications are closed, what will these people do? They don't have the chance to get a one-way ticket, at a reduced price. Why? Is it the system? I know that the systems operate at the service of the citizen and if something is wrong, we are in 2018. If it is possible that we cannot amend a procedure. Act from design is always too far away. You know that better than anyone. I therefore ask you why you consider them to be thieves and jams, and why you do not give them the choice of a reduced ticket from the machines. If you think they're jamballs, you put in control mechanisms, because in this process that the Ministry applies, it hurts people very much, especially these sensitive categories of citizens, and it seems that you don't care at all. Decide: Whether you are incapable of protecting and controlling a simple procedure that applies throughout the Western civilized world - we did not discover the wheel! - either consider the citizens unworthy and battered who only think how to steal the state. When you talk about growth, and when you talk about investment, and when you talk about prosperity, and we've really given a shitty money, and we've lost so much, and we haven't guaranteed the elementary and respect for these people and their everyday lives, then something is problematic and we have to change it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Spirjis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Kefalidou, but you've been telling us a lot. You've really done a lot of things. You don't want to understand it. Good. It's not bad. We have now become accustomed to having conscious ignorance and denial of reality. It is the logic of specific media with you, in good cooperation, "Don't leave the truth..."...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u131	You're not answering the question. You're throwing the ball at the signals.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u132	I'll answer the question as I wish, Mrs. Kefalidou. "Don't let the truth ruin a good story for you." So you, who are advanced technology and have never done anything about all this...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u133	You said we started it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u134	... you put them in the fridge to maintain circuits of counterfeit tickets and other things in the urban transport. I'll say it now. Your model was the headhunters. I don't know if you remember that model where those who checked got a percentage of the fines. Two kids were killed like this. That's your model.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u135	Don't patronize, Minister. For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u136	I repeat: whoever is entitled to a reduced ticket, gets a personalized card and pays a reduced ticket. You don't want to understand it. You have denounced us and for...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u137	Let's just say I'm an occasional user and I'm coming for a day. I'm taking a personal ticket?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u138	Wait a minute. Mrs. Kefalidou, you were clear in your question. Let us wait until the end, because the question was specific. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u139	Yeah. You will go to a goose or with your student ID and you will get a personalized card - it takes three minutes to be issued - or on the Internet before you go to Athens you will apply and come to your house. I don't know if you understand that. It's very simple. You obviously don't want to understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u140	Minister, it's about the occasional user coming in and it's 22:30 an hour and it's closed the publishing room.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u141	There won't be any soon. I want it to be perfectly understandable. Soon there won't be a ticket of 0.60 or an electronic ticket. There's no need for it. We won't be in the age of copper because that's your logic as it once existed with the paper ticket. There will be a personalized card for the person entitled either zero ticket or reduced ticket for the students...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u142	We're talking about now!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u143	That's what we're talking about. For students, a contract has been made with the Ministry of Education. All students' cards will be issued in Athens, shortly and in Thessaloniki that will be awarded a competition and all will have their card. You don't want to understand that. But why? I want to say why, Mrs. Kefalidou. Because you're hiding it. You hide it, because all these years the famous fake card party took place. So what have we been doing so long? Two hundred and fifty thousand monthly cards were sold by OSCE to Athens and four hundred thousand personalized. Suddenly, then, the chimpanzees you're talking about went and took off a card, since the gates are open? No, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u144	Put in control mechanisms. Not just and unrighteous!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u145	It was the circuits you and the old communism allowed to be in there to sell in the urban transport of fake tickets and fake cards. You don't want to understand it. Findings have been made. Urban transport officials have gone to jail, they are in the prosecutor and in the courts. Factories that type fake tickets and fake cards were found. Don't you know that? Do you hear them for the first time today?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u146	And that's what LEAD has to pay for? Is that going to fall into these people's head?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u147	Of course I understand your panic, because you, who are socially sensitive, have never made sure that contracts are made with the Ministry of Education, with the Ministry of Labour, nor have you ever said that the unemployed should be moved free of charge. Never!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u148	Only you have opened the doors, Minister, to pass...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u149	You denounced us for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u150	Let's get this over with, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u151	You're telling us French-speaking about it. So we congratulate you, even today, on all that has been revealed in urban transport and that is to be revealed both in Athens and Thessaloniki, we want you to tell us that we are galantic with the unemployed, that we are galantic with the students, that we are reducing the cost of stealing at the Urban Transport Organisations and in Athens and Thessaloniki to continue to broaden the social policy that we are serving. Say what you want! The world knows very well and the unemployed and the disabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u152	All right, we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u153	They know the people you've been into overtaxing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Because Mrs Papanatsiou has not come - we have been notified by the Secretary of Government that she is coming - I cannot immediately start the bill. That's why we're taking a 10-minute break. Please, Mr. Pavlides, Mr. Fortsakis and Mr. Koutsouko do not leave so that we will not be late to begin further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Businesses of financial instruments and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided, at its meeting on 18 January 2018, to discuss the draft law at a meeting, single on the principle, articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u156	The House therefore agreed. I would also like to inform you that there are five ministerial and four parliamentary amendments. Mr. Koutsoukos, I think he has his honor, as they are all his. If you want, Mr Koutsouko, to defend them and present them, say so once you get on the step to give you a little more time and analyse them together with your suggestion, so that you do not come back. I have also been informed that, for the two ministerial amendments, Mr Stathakis and Mrs Conniordos, the ministers will sometime come to present them. So we're starting the conversation. Until Mr Fortsakis, whoever wants to speak, can tell the Secretariat that he wants to speak, for example, like Mr Theocharis, because we do not have the electronic system here. Four colleagues spoke to the committee. We should not have many colleagues here too wanting to talk. So, if we do well, we'll be done in the early afternoon. Mr. Pavlides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the financial crisis has revealed its weaknesses so far in terms of the functioning and transparency of the financial markets and has demonstrated the need to strengthen the framework for regulating the markets in financial instruments, including over-the-counter transactions in these markets, with a view to increasing transparency, better investor protection, strengthening confidence, addressing the non-regulated sectors and ensuring adequate powers for supervisory bodies to carry out their tasks. Directive 2014/65/EU, MiFID II is part of the Union initiative relating to the review of previous Directive 2004/39/EC on markets in financial instruments and its supplementation with Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council. On the basis of the initiative, this Law will therefore be together with this regulation the new legal framework governing financial markets. In relation to the existing framework, which is replaced, this Law extends the range of services and activities of the financial sector, including new investment services and activities, such as the functioning of the organised trading mechanisms, SCFs, new financial instruments and products, such as pollutant emission allowances, structured deposits and structured financial products, as well as new operating requirements for the main players in this sector, investment firms, credit institutions and others. The draft law follows as closely as possible the provisions and provisions of Directive 65/2014, as the purpose of that Directive is to harmonise the conditions for authorisation to investment firms and the rules for carrying out their activities, so as to ensure, on the one hand, the interests of investors and, on the other, to facilitate the provision of investment services and the pursuit of investment activities throughout the European Union on the basis of supervision of the Member State of origin. In particular, the provisions of the draft law are as follows: both investment services and credit institutions must ensure that their transactions in shares take place only on trading venues or on equivalent trading venues of a third country. This means that the OTC transactions in shares and derivatives are limited and the operation on the same terms of transparency is ensured at all trading venues. In order to facilitate better access by small and medium-sized enterprises to the capital markets, a specific market is established, operating as a multilateral trading mechanism for SMEs with specific obligations. Arrangements for transaction controls, via algorithms or transactions, shall be introduced at a high frequency. These activities have significantly increased the trading speed and pose possible systemic risks. Transparency of transactions is strengthened and the rules of pre- and post-trade transparency, which apply not only to shares such as today, but also to other securities, such as bonds and derivatives, are extended. More protection is envisaged for investors and more stringent requirements are put in place in the provision of portfolio management, investment advice and for transactions in complex financial instruments, such as structured products. Furthermore, in order to prevent conflicts of interest, a prohibition on contributors is laid down in the provision of advice on an independent basis and in the management of a portfolio, while organisational requirements and associated liability of managers for all investment services providers that manufacture or distribute investment products, as well as increased information and information obligations of their clients, are established. Finally, the powers of supervisory authorities are strengthened, which now under specific conditions will be able to prohibit specific products, services or practices if they consider that the protection of investors, financial stability or the orderly functioning of the markets is threatened. The draft law also lays down requirements in relation to: first, authorisation and operation of public limited liability companies; and, second, the provision of investment services or investment activities by investment firms from another Member State to Greece. Second, the provision of investment services or the conduct of investment activities by third country enterprises through the establishment of a branch in Greece. Third, licensing and the operation of market operators of regulated markets. Fourthly, authorisation and operation of data reporting services providers and fifthly, supervision, cooperation and implementation by competent authorities. More detailed now, this draft law consists of five parts. The first part is incorporated into the national legislation of the European Union. The second part includes arrangements regarding the operation of SNEs, public limited companies and public limited liability companies, public limited liability companies and public limited liability companies. In Part 3, measures for the implementation of Regulation 2365/2015 shall be adopted. Part four includes provisions amending existing stock exchange legislation. Finally, the fifth part deals with other issues of the Ministry of Finance. In particular, Part 1 sets out the purpose of the arrangements of that part which is to harmonise national legislation with the provisions of Directive 2014/65/EU, which revised the previous Directive 2004/39/EC with regard to markets in financial instruments. Secondly, the definitions necessary for the implementation of the provisions of the draft law, such as the CFS, the Organised Trading Mechanism, Structured Deposit, Structured Financial Products and others, are set out. Thirdly, the terms and procedures for the authorisation of GNIs are redefined. In particular, a market operator is allowed to manage RBMs, Multilateral Trading Mechanism or RBMs, following the authorisation of the Securities and Market Committee. The content of the authorisation of GNI shall be determined, as well as the procedures for authorising and rejecting its applications. The assessment process of the shareholders of GNI with a qualifying participation is also described and the criteria for their assessment are set out. The obligations of the ESAs that conduct algorithmic transactions are defined both in terms of their risk control systems and mechanisms, as well as in respect of the Securities and Market Committee and the competent authority of the trading venue in which they are active. The general principles of professional behaviour to be followed by ERFs in the provision of investment and ancillary services to their customers and the range of information to be provided are also laid down. It shall also be necessary for GFCMs and managing authorities that manage FMDs or FMDs to maintain effective mechanisms and procedures for the regular monitoring of members’ compliance in relation to specific FMDs or FMDs. The development markets of small and medium-sized enterprises are established as a subcategory of the MSF category. A third country undertaking wishing to provide Greece with investment services or to engage in investment activities shall be obliged to establish a branch in Greece for that purpose under the derogation laid down in Articles 5 to 43. The scope of the regulated markets in Greece is set out. The position limits for the size of the net position that a person may hold at any time on commodity derivatives shall be established by the Securities Committee and checks are provided for the management of positions in them. In addition, the transparency requirements, position notifications, i.e. by category of position holders for ESAs or market operators, which manage a trading venue in which they are traded in commodity derivatives or emission allowances or in various other derivatives thereof, are traded. The Commission is to authorise the provision of data reporting services. There are also issues relating to the content of that authorisation, the procedures for authorising and rejecting its applications, the cases of revocation and several others. The organisational requirements to be used by the Approved Mechanisms for Publication of Transactions, EMPLOYS, Consolidated Exchange Sheet Providers, ETUCs and Approved Transaction Disclosure Mechanisms, shall be specified in order to respond successfully to the work they perform in Articles 59 to 66. The responsibilities and arrangements for cooperation between the competent authorities, i.e. the Securities and Market Commission and the Bank of Greece, are laid down. The framework of the administrative sanctions imposed by the supervisory authorities, the Securities and Market Commission and the Bank of Greece shall be redefined to the offenders of the above-mentioned arrangements. In particular, there is a fine of EUR 5,000,000 to any legal or natural person from the previous EUR 3,000,000 to date. In particular, for legal persons, the fine may alternatively reach up to 10% of their total annual turnover. In addition, any person who, without the necessary permission of intent, carries out a professional provision of investment services, the pursuit of investment activities or the provision of EMISY, PENSY and EMISSUS services shall be punished by imprisonment of at least one year, or by a penalty or both of those penalties. The issues of cooperation between the competent authorities of Greece and the respective authorities of the Member States and the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) are regulated. In particular, they shall cooperate in research or surveillance activities, in facilitating the recovery of fines in Articles 67 to 86 and others. In Part 2, the framework for the operation of the Annulled Investment Intermediation Companies (IAS) and of the EEAS is redefined. The third part defines the Securities and Market Commission of Greece as competent authorities to monitor compliance with the provisions of Regulation 2365 of 2015, the supervised entities operating in Greece - GDP, credit institutions and others - as well as branches of entities established in a third country. Provision is made for administrative penalties and measures in the event of infringement of the provisions of Regulation 2365/2015. In particular, the Capital Market Commission and the Bank of Greece may impose in the case of a natural person a fine of up to EUR 5 000 000 and a legal person of a financial nature of up to EUR 5 000 000 or up to 10% of its total annual turnover of EUR 15 000 000 or up to 10% of its total annual turnover, as the case may be, of any natural or legal person with a financial fine of up to three times the amount of profits received or the losses avoided due to the infringement, even if the fine exceeds those amounts. The Securities and Exchange Committee may impose a fine of up to EUR 500,000 in the event of non-cooperation, refusal to grant or to provide poor data or insufficient cooperation in an investigation related to this Regulation. The fourth part allows GNIS to invest in, among other things, long-term real estate leases of a minimum of twenty years, commercial and industrial real estate and others. It is reduced from 25% to 10% the minimum investment rate of GNIS in shares or shares of the company or the reported property acquisition, management and exploitation organisation, with the exception of personal companies. It is defined as EUR 150,000 for external Annuity Management Companies of Alternative Investment Agencies (AEDOE), authorised to provide services by the Securities Committee, the initial contribution from the participants to the mutual fund capital and so on. Finally, in the fifth part, which does not concern the adaptation of the directive, but concerns provisions of the Ministry - sovereign of the Ministry of Finance - Article 27 of the VAT Code is recast, concerning the exemption from the tax on ship delivery and importation, with a view to fully harmonising with the corresponding provision of the VAT Directive 112 2006. Such recasting shall specify the conditions to be met by ships intended to be used in offshore navigation to be covered by the exemption in Article 111. This procedure does not affect fishing vessels, tourists and other vessels. In addition to Article 20 of Law 2948 of 2001 on the calculation of the annual traffic charges for private use of passenger vehicles from third countries and in the suspension of the customs procedure for the temporary importation of passenger cars, the following is added to the annual traffic charges for private use of passenger vehicles from third countries. Provisions of the Customs Code No 2960 of 2001 on exemptions from the vehicle registration fee are amended and supplemented. In particular, a longer period of two years is provided instead of one year with the possibility of a six-month extension. It is also foreseen that, in the event of the submission of the relevant requests by the heirs of the deceased, the release in question will be carried out by the Customs Region of Attica after the imposition by the competent customs authority of the fine provided for in Article 147(2) of Law 2960/2001. The provisions of permanent arrangements for debts established in the DUs and customs offices are amended. And it is foreseen that these debts may be settled before the deadline for payment expires. For the years 2018 and 2019, the transitional provisions of the Code on Taxation and the Code on the collection of Public Revenue stipulate that the interest on late payment shall be calculated monthly at the time of collection for the whole month and at the time of collection of the public income shall be compulsorily collected on the amount of the debt paid, on the basis of interest and on the fine for late payment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The prohibition on the processing of ethyl alcohol with other raw materials for the production of vinegar and the mixing of alcohol vinegar with the other categories of vinegar is hereby prohibited. The Committee set up by Article 16(6) of Law 2873 2000 on the assessment of complaints lodged against the services and officials of the Ministry of Finance is hereby repealed. After the abolition of the above Committee, its logistical equipment shall be recorded and contained in Section C of the AIA. Finally, Article 75 of Law 4270/2014 is amended on the report on the tax expenditure accompanying the State budget and the issue of setting up the Special Committee for the Evaluation of Administrative Staff of the Law Board of the State is regulated by the latest Articles 119 and 120. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u158	With the consent of this House - which I assume you will give me, because it will make it easier for the rapporteurs and speakers - to give the floor, because it has been here since the morning, to Minister Connordos, to present her amendment so that you can also take it into consideration when you are present. You have the floor for five minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. The amendment concerns the possibility of extending the term of office of the temporary Commissioner for GNI. Undoubtedly, the presence of the temporary Commissioner in GNI has only brought positive results. It works inconsistently with its partners, three natural persons and two specialised companies, financial management and distribution, the collection of the copyright, the sound management of the amounts received and their deposit into separate accounts, in accordance with Law 4481/2017, so that they cannot be used to cover the debts of the owners of the company, as well as the fair distribution to the beneficiaries. Without the interim Commissioner, it would certainly be different and developments in the field of copyright, perhaps, very unpleasant. Through the temporary Commissioner, GDPI is closely supervised by the Ministry, monitoring its financial data, and it is not possible to jeopardise the rights of beneficiaries. The extension of the term of office of the temporary Commissioner for three more months, as proposed by the amendment tabled, is necessary in order to give the necessary time to complete its work. He can't miss one day. We are in the process of completing the distributions, which are essential to confer rights on beneficiaries. Also, the implementation of the temporary Commissioner is for the first time and it seems that nine months - plus three extensions - were not enough to complete the presentation of the Agency's financial situation and to fully assess the situation in order to take the necessary measures to protect the beneficiaries. We recall that the company is being investigated for criminal offences and we would like to stress that at the moment we are looking at all possible, so that we can have a full picture of all the facts in order to further deal with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Fortsakis, the rapporteur-general of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today comes a bill of great importance, since it concerns the Greek capital market, a key area for the development of the Greek economy. In the first and second part of the draft, Articles 1 to 99 include provisions incorporating Directive 2014/65, the known MFID II or resulting from it, such as arrangements concerning the operation of public limited liability companies and public limited liability companies. By MiFID II, which replaces the existing Law 3606/2007, a previous directive is revised in 2004/39, i.e. Law 3606/2007, to which I referred, with regard to markets in financial instruments. The current bill, when it becomes a law, will be - together with Regulation 600/2014, which is known as MFIR - the new legal framework governing the markets in financial instruments. The review of MiFID I has become necessary following the huge changes in financial markets in recent years. The increase in the number of investors actively involved in financial markets, the emergence of new trading markets, new financial instruments, including over-the-counter transactions in these markets and new products, as well as technological developments, have changed the securities markets. In summary, MiFID II aims at increasing transparency, better investor protection, strengthening confidence, addressing non-regulated markets and ensuring the provision of adequate powers to supervisory bodies to carry out their tasks. However, the application of MiFID II also poses serious risks to the Greek market. I want to mention them briefly. There are issues and operating costs arising from the directive, in which many stock exchanges will not be able to respond. Many small anonymous investment services companies will be forced to merge or close. The market will soon concentrate on less hands, with what this may mean for healthy competition and the real protection of the investor. The Directive was drawn up without consultation of market operators. The negative effects on stock exchange liquidity, listed small and medium-sized enterprises, employment and productivity are likely to increase and the problem of bureaucracy is expected to be exacerbated with unnecessary costly functions. Finally, the selection of the Capital Market Commission and the Bank of Greece as supervisory authorities raises an issue as to their relationship with the Ministry of Finance, since the other countries are independent supervisors. The Bank of Greece is at the same time supervised and supervised, which makes things more complicated. This is not only about this bill, but it is a more general issue, which must be considered. As far as the provisions relating to the directive are concerned - because we are of course obliged to respect our commitments to the European Union and do not face serious divergences from the text of the directive - we must accept that almost all of the articles, with some reservations I will make, the draft law actually incorporates the directive. The fact that we are positive about a directive that modernises financial markets does not, of course, mean that we ignore the many mistakes made by the government in the harmonization process. It is no surprise, of course, that we are one of the last countries of the European Union that integrate MiFID II. It is the government's constant tactic to incorporate directives too late. MiFID II should be applied from 3 January this year, and we are now discussing it and now voting in our House. We must also note that there were, in fact, no procedures for incorporating this demanding directive. In particular, the planned implementation measures have not yet been adopted in our country. This could perhaps make it easier, as far as possible, for small investment firms in our country to respond to the great bureaucratic burden of the very demanding new framework. I propose that the proposal of the Athens Association of Members be adopted and that a two-month extension should be granted to the start of the implementation of MiFID II in order to resolve the practical issues facing the stakeholders on the capital market. The integrated directive also provides for the entry into force of the specific national legislation incorporating it, up to six months after the end of the transposition of MiFID II into national legislation. Also, one issue for consideration is that of the recertifications of the executives of the capital market provided for in Article 93 of the draft law under discussion. Greek legislation requires recertifications of executives working on a daily basis and exclusively through the provision of investment services. The obligation to recertify is not the norm in the European area, it is not observed in other occupations and it does not bring about substantial improvements in the training of managers. On the contrary, the whole process brings meaningless and asymmetrical costs for the companies responsible and for the executives involved in the examinations and introduces a cost-effective and unnecessary market procedure. We are proposing that this obligation of recertification be removed. In addition, the members of the certification committee, as regards official certifications for the first time, shall have at least level B suitability certificate so that they have the necessary guarantees. Articles 100 to 110, i.e. Part III and Part IV of the bill, include provisions which do not constitute a transposition of the directive we are talking about, but which are provisions relating to matters that really deal with issues on the capital market and amend existing stock exchange legislation. I shall refer briefly to some of these provisions. Article 106 amends Law 2778/1999 and mainly regulates issues of real estate investment in the relevant public limited liability companies. Confusion may result in the reference to Article 106(2) that ‘if the SPS does not control the company, the SPS shall participate with at least one member with the right to vote in the board of directors of that company or the relevant management body in the event of another company or company of another country or institution’. It says "the institution", but does not define the meaning of the instrument, which was added to the draft law and did not exist in the original text of the Securities and Exchange Committee sent to the Ministry. So I think it would be useful to remove this phrase 'the institution' at the end of this paragraph, as is the amendment already tabled, which is the general number 1449. I am also very concerned about the fact that a special tax regime is being provided to the OSH and a question of indirect aid is raised, which the Parliament's Scientific Service has also raised. So here we have a risk that is visible and we should think about it today before we take it. Article 108 concerns the amendment of Law 3461/2006 on public proposals for the purchase of securities. It mainly regulates issues of the compulsory public proposal. Although it creates the impression of increased protection for the investment public, it may act as an incentive to submit public proposals. Article 109(3) is in the right direction but is not global. This is a partial solution to the major problem of the mutual and broad development of the financial sector in our country. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and that it does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. What are the problems of mutual assistance? There's a lot of them. I will shortly tell you - immediately six, which are asking for a immediate solution. The first is that the co-financing, which now has EUR 46 million capital, is faced with numerous pending judicial cases by investors of about EUR 25 million. The second is that the liquidation, even withholding until the decision of all these pending cases, should have been made on the basis of the length of the actions, that is, the time that investors have done during individual periods, has not been done. The third question is that the shares of the members are not stable, but are changed on the basis of the value of the assets held by each member. Now we're talking about 2.75 of the value as a premium. Banks - stock exchange companies can therefore transfer assets annually to the care of banks and thus withdraw a contribution from the co-financing and transfer it to the CECF, in particular to the CECF's CEC. The CJEU has no pending court cases and will not be imposed by this liquidation, but the co-guarantee will be severely affected. Some private stock companies can also gradually transfer assets to foreign-based houses. Furthermore, I find a problem in the Co-financing, which is a wider problem for the country, because the investment services in a small market, such as the Greek one, are broken in TEK's CF and in the co-financing. They should be merged. When only in TEK, which serves for the deposits, added the “E” and became TEKE - is Law 3746/2009 - there were pending judicial cases and badly then, there was no liquidation and retention of the corresponding amounts. The fifth question of mutual assistance is that the composition of the Board of Directors consists of members who have a conflict of interest - a major problem - that is, they take decisions on their competitors, contrary to the board of directors of the CEC. So the biggest problem with the co-response is the last one, that they will pay the previous obligations of other companies that are staying at the end. This results in no investment in the country's financial sector. What new foreign company will put funds in the Greek co-financing scheme, which 54% of the funds are in pending dispute from the past, and it is possible that some may find windows and escape their obligations? In Greece there are thirty-seven extroverts, two extroverts in total from the seventeen that we had before and in Cyprus at this time we have three hundred, the two fifty extroverts of which. That is the main reason for disinvestment in this sector in our country. Above all, it is necessary for the national economy and justice to retain the amount allocated to each member at the time of the action in question in proportion to the share of the time involved. In the present situation no new investment will be possible. That is why I propose to the Minister that he bring in immediate arrangements for the mutual assistance. In the fifth part of the bill, Articles 111 to 121, regulate some other tax matters of the Ministry of Finance. Article 111 recasts Article 27(1) of Law 2859 VAT Code - as regards VAT exemption for ship delivery and import. The imposition of VAT on shipping between Greek ports, in view of the country's dependence on domestic maritime transport, will lead to the transfer of the VAT charged to the final consumer, i.e. to islands, who - notable - have to deal with the abolition of the reduced rates from 1 January 2018, with the exception of five islands, so that they can buy the same products by far more than the inhabitants of the mainland. Since the Hellenic Republic has not submitted a request for exemption of VAT to the services relating to inland waterway shipping, as other members have done, France or Portugal, for example, there should be a commitment by the relevant Ministry to fix a zero rate, which is lawful and applicable in many Member States for certain activities of national importance. Article 112 provides for the calculation of the annual traffic charges for private use of passenger cars under the suspension procedure of the temporary importation customs procedure on the basis of the rolling-stock of their engine. However, instead of a general non-discriminatory provision, as it has so far been, the first paragraph of the provision applies only to vehicles registered for the first time in a country of the European Union or in the EEA, and the second paragraph applies to vehicles coming from third countries with differentiated regulation as to the date of classification in the relevant table, which in the latter case is based on the date of registration of the vehicle under the temporary importation regime in Greece. Moreover, the exclusive application of the cylindrical criterion - until now, Article 20 of Law 2948/2001 - was based on the date of first classification, regardless of whether the classification was first made in Greece or abroad. It is noted that the explanatory memorandum refers exclusively to vehicles from third countries, while the wording of the provision is wider. The provision of Article 113 provides for a longer period for the regularisation and release of vehicles received with exemption from the registration fee in the event of death. The provision first of all contributes to the facilitation of the parties concerned and is positive. The provision of Article 114 amends the provisions of the standing arrangement of L.4152/2013 so that it is undeniably possible to regulate certified debts and before they become due, in line with the corresponding rules applicable to debts within the scope of the Tax Code. This provision is correct. The provisions of Article 115 are amended by the provisions of Law No.4303/2014 and the Decree of 5 May 1928. The proposed provision of paragraph 1 permits the mixing of ethyl alcohol with other raw materials, as well as the mixing of alcohol vinegar with vinegars of other categories. In principle, it contributes to reducing administrative burdens and facilitating the production of products which meet the current needs and are largely intended for export. However, the broad authorisation granted to the Commander of the Independent Public Revenue Authority should be specified in order to provide for the relevant conditions which give rise to serious constitutional and other concerns. This provision is therefore problematic. The provisions of Articles 116 and 117 postpone the application of the provisions of the Code on Taxation and of the Code on the collection of Public Revenue, which provide for the calculation of late payment interest per day and not per month, as well as the payment order. That provision leads to a higher burden on citizens, as late payment interest is collected for the whole month and not for the actual days of late payment. Citizens are thus inadmissible with the consequences of the administrative delay in keeping schedules and adapting the information systems concerned. The consequences of the administrative uncertainty must be borne by the tax administration itself by calculating the interest on late payment for the transitional period on the basis of the previous month.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u162	Mr. Fortsakis, you need to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u163	In less than a minute, Mr President. In accordance with Article 118, the Committee on the Evaluation of Complaints submitted to the detriment of the services and officials of the Ministry of Finance shall be repealed. An unanswered question remains whether or not there is an institution responsible for such complaints. What about these complaints? Article 119 rescheduls the issue of the tax expenditure report that the competence to draw up it is transferred by the Independent Public Revenue Authority to the Minister for Finance. That's negative. And finally, Article 120 lays down issues of the Legal Council of the State. It is positive to set up the Special Evaluation Committee, as it makes it possible to implement the law on the assessment of the administrative staff of the Legal Council of State, but it is negative to retroactive legitimacy of past expenditure, which is not justified as far as we are financially misappropriate. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is clear that whatever measure goes in the positive direction and helps the economy we support, unlike any provision that hides micropolitical interests. So we remain consistent in our firm position to always be constructive. The amendments I am going to make in my second language. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u164	Tolerance has been very great, but there will also be other colleagues, because a total of six Members have been written. So we have this luxury today. But let an advice from the older ones be given. Articles in which parties agree do not need to be analysed. We mention them and say that these articles are in agreement with us and focus on the articles that disagrees with a party in order to develop the disagreement. There's no reason to say all the articles. Mr Koutsoukos, I should like to give Mr Statakis the floor for five minutes, because he has to go to committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u165	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u166	All right, let's do his thing. Immediately after you take the floor. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer to two amendments, namely general number 1450 and number 236, and to general number 1454 and number 240. The first amendment contains strict legislative improvements to the part of the bill that we voted on a few days ago, the multi-legislative bill, concerning the exploration and exploitation of quartz minerals and other provisions. They're strictly legal, all four. The second amendment concerns the limited extension of three months in the deadline for the finalisation of the initial entries in the register. I would remind you that this has been done. They have fourteen and fifteen years to be finalized. We're talking about this charge. We refer only to areas where this deadline expires in 2018. Therefore, we are referring, firstly, to a very limited extension of three months, to finalise the initial entries in the Register and to the category of areas which ends in 2018. This is a series of areas, some of them are in Attica, such as Elefsina, Vrilyssia, Nea Peramos, New Psychics, etc. and too many other regions of the rest of the country. This extension is deemed necessary due to the recent abolition of the company ‘National Register and Mapping S.A.’ and transfer of powers to the newly established entity ‘Greek Register’. We believe that this very limited extension is necessary so that no problems arise either in the administration's temporary failure to respond or in the defence of individuals. Therefore, with this three-month extension any arrhythmias have to be cured for both the public and private. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor. If you want to talk about the amendments, you will have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I hope that Mr Chakalotos will also come to plenary, since the bill we are discussing is his responsibility to describe how early the story of 'clean exit' collapsed. Because the Minister at Eurogroup the day before yesterday made a series of commitments beyond the exit date and attempted to cover the compliance report on auctions, which set specific targets for our country: ten thousand auctions by the end of 2018 and forty thousand auctions in the three-year period, without first home protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u170	Who says "without protection"?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u171	Conformity report, Mr. Manda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u172	Don't have a dialogue, Mr. Mada. Then when you talk, you answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u173	That's what the compliance report says, Mr. Manda. And because Mr. Tsakalots treats us in a horrifying way here in the House, when we ask him to submit the texts translated, because we have not had the happiness of being an english, confronting us and bringing us to the Internet. So we found her online, the compliance report, and she says that. And if you question it, call him here to testify translated. I'm talking about the SYRIZA colleagues who haven't been to Oxford. So the clean exit account collapsed because it has undertaken commitments for the post-exit certificate method at the end of the fourth evaluation. It has made commitments for the sale of PPC. And Mr Stathakis carefully abstained from referring to the amendment tabled by his Ministry and restricts PPC's ability to intervene as a buyer in the auctions of electricity. Read it well and ask for explanations. Nor did they tell us what commitments they made to the CECE, whose blog has gone, after the disappearance of the public holding company of the CEC, which was your own account of making use of the CEC and not selling them directly to the supreme. Of course, it is worth mentioning and we should be explained by Mr Tsakalotos, the closure of the communiqué which talks about debt arrangements if necessary and calls on the Greek Government to present a comprehensive development plan, in place of their debt arrangements. So, what did the Eurogroup tell you? Or a holistic development plan, so we will have a DSA, that is, a debt sustainability study that, based on growth rates, does not require debt adjustment or debt adjustment if growth rates require this to be done. So, we're going back to a new deadlock and to a new dilemma: Growth or stagnation - bankruptcy. All this is part of the electoral cycle, as you do with national issues. Nothing else. That is why I say that Mr Chakalotos should come, since the bill is his and the Eurogroup was recently to inform us. I now come to the same bill, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to make a point which I have made in committee in the well-known slogan 'I am voting - I am voting against', which said that you have forgotten and learned some lessons, but Mr Stathakis who came down from the Step said that we would vote against some provisions. In other words, you will be voting for them the day before yesterday. It's very fresh ink in the recent bill, in the bill. We're clearing them up. The Minister must now explain to us what we are going to do with the provisions of Articles 59 to 66 of the bill, which, because the government did not ratify the directive, did not include it, that is to say, in national law until 3-1-2018 as it was required to ratify them by means of an amendment before holidays. Here, from the 'I am voting - I am voting', we will move on to 'I am voting and I am voting again'. These are technical remarks, but they are of political significance. I now come, ladies and gentlemen, to the very provisions of the bill, which effectively abolish the provisions of Law 3707/2007, which had until now been regulating the issues of financial transactions with a view, as I said, of 3 January, to having the new framework, namely Directive 2014/65, and in conjunction with Regulation 600/2014 of the so-called MIFID II, which replaces MiFID I. The argument in the explanatory statement and the European Commission is that, following the 2008 crisis, the terms of financial transactions throughout the system, both in the main products and in their derivatives, had to be tightened up. Technically, a framework has been developed in which I will make a brief reference, which is very difficult, difficult, bureaucratic, strict, with more transparency, but also much more cost for companies, so it favours large companies and takes small companies out of the industry. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, because we want and claim the expression of the socialist and social-democratic ideas both in our country and in Parliament, to make an observation, which is addressed to SYRIZA's current colleagues and the members of the government, who accused us of being integrated into the neoliberal practices of the European Union and we are not trying to change anything, while they are changing Europe. All that has changed, of course, are the thanks for the facilities offered by the ministers and Mr Tsipras at meetings that end very soon, because they accept what they are told. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that if we want to have a progressive policy to control the speed of movement of capital funds - 'case', that is to say, those who invest and disinvest soon to speculate, assume and deprive the real economy of resources, because all the arguments - there is in the draft report of this bill - are that we need to ensure that we attract funds through the financial markets to boost investment and the real economy, that cannot be done when capital is there, which is too quickly depending on developments that are moving or many times they affect developments and lead to bankruptcy, as has been done with Merrill Lynch, with large companies and even countries. The progressive thought, ladies and gentlemen, has been recorded in the proposal on the so-called Tobin tax, which, as an economist honoured with Nobel in 1978, had tabled a proposal for a tax on financial transactions, a small tax, which would prevent the speculative movement of capital and would have had the financial markets to bear a cost and would not have carried it to the citizens when systemic banks and the other system had the effect of this policy. I must tell you, then, and I must remind you that the socialist leaders, Jospin and Schröder, since 2001, have been recommending the application of this tax to the European Union as well, considering that the European Union should lead this policy. The Federation of European Trade Unions since 1998 has been fighting this view. I, too, had the honour of presenting it at an international conference here in Greece - that the Socialist International with the presidency of George Papandreou had adopted this option and proposed that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs in October 2012, following a report by the European Parliament of the PASOK, Mrs Anne Moods, accepted the implementation and introduction of a financial transaction tax in the process of enhanced cooperation in eleven countries, including Greece. The European Economic and Social Committee had a concrete, documented report, which I will present in the Minutes, analysed the positive effects of such a choice and called on the European Commission to proceed quickly with the process of adopting a directive, which would be binding on the countries of the European Union. The United Kingdom has brought the European Court of Justice before it and lost it because the European Court of Justice has failed to accept its arguments. Mr. Venizelos, as Minister of Finance, on 4-2-2014, had welcomed this initiative by speaking to the European Parliament. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to talk from a progressive perspective about how to limit the speculative movement of capital and strengthen the real economy, there are other policies, which those who have to say would change Europe to put them where they should, I would like to inform you that since Mr Venizelos last spoke to the European Parliament about the Tobin tax, the so-called 'first time left' is the first time that he is the island. I say this to see how we can interfere with developments, because otherwise we will be confined to the role of a handler and because we - we have told you yet again - have a firm position in relation to the transposition of the directives, we will vote for them firmly both in the government and in the opposition, and you will occasionally depending on your position. Consequently, we articles of the bill, which - Article, mot a mot, as the lawyers say - transpose this directive into national law, will also vote in the first part through to Article 86 and the second part from Article 87 to 97, which has the specific arrangements for the operation of public limited liability companies and the third part, which has Articles 100-103, which lays down provisions for the implementation of Regulation 2015 and the fourth part, which has Articles 104-110, which contain provisions amending technical details to existing stock exchange legislation. We are raising an issue on issues that are national law and which were raised by the representatives of the bodies that we called on the committee, in particular on Article 106, as the GPSD said that there is also an incorrect legislative provision in relation to the notification of their decisions and plans in the Securities and Markets Committee, which has no competence and in relation to the definition of the term 'institution'. They have also formulated a request which they say can make the process of their investment more flexible. That is why I called on the Minister to take up this matter. He said he'd be placed in plenary. He hasn't been placed. We're waiting to hear it. I, for my part, have tabled a specific amendment to the government. There is also Article 109 for SNEs, which concerns representatives of small investment companies. They said that we cannot have EUR 150,000 of share capital and call on us to provide EUR 150,000 in the loan. The Minister said she'd see it. I believe that the request is reasonable and that is why I have tabled a specific amendment. I now come to the articles - and I will hear the President-in-Office's advice - on tax provisions. And I'm referring to the articles from 111 onwards. We are opposed to Article 111 which defines pleasure boats at 12 metres. We say that this is done arbitrarily, the Minister says it is done in accordance with the European directive. If, however, it is in line with the European directive, so far why have we lost taxes? Somebody has to explain it to us. I am also referring to the article on the lifting of the ban on ethyl alcohol of various origins for vinegars. And I ask: will the decision of the Ministry make it possible to indicate that this is a grape product, is a Greek product, or will it soon be placed on the market as vinegars from Ukrainian corn and Egyptian potatoes? This is the regulation, so that from alcohol of any origin we may have vinegar that will be released on the market. And, of course, I must express my opposition to you, as in Articles 116 and 117 there was a regulation that was positive for the citizens owed to the public - that is, they would not pay a charge for the whole month, but only for the days of the delay - and because of your inability to apply it you have been prolonging for another year. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I have raised my concern about the Committee on the Evaluation of Complaints, since, as the Minister accepted, the Ministry has not yet reached its conclusion on what it will do with the College of Inspectors, as well as what it will do with the issue of the Minister's ability, which, instead of presenting the expenditure report, will be submitted by the ADP itself, and the law says that it should be submitted by the ADP. I shall now come to the point, Mr President, to close - in two of my amendments relating to well-known matters to the Minister and to Mr Tsakalotos. One thing is very serious, another time it has been discussed. It is about the big wage difference that new recruits have in the Ministry of Finance. And since we all want to help in the fight against tax evasion, these, ladies and gentlemen, depend on whether we have a trained, experienced and qualified staff. Such staff have been recruited to the Ministry of Finance in recent years, and in some cases these new employees have also been relocated. Unfortunately, because the welfare of the law, which provided for the personal disparity check for these employees, has not been implemented, we have come to the point of hiring and leaving. Do you realize that with such high unemployment rates? Mr Pittsilis told us here, when last year in February he presented the activity of the AIA, answering my question and accepting that the request is reasonable, very correct. He said he has thoughts to solve it. Mr. Tsakalotos at the trade union leaders at the Ministry of Finance has said he will resolve it after the evaluation. I tabled this amendment to place the government, because too many majority Members found me and said that my initiative is very important and supports it. So you can solve it today. If you don't want me to take the glory, bring your own amendment. We will vote on it. The other thing I have tabled, Minister, is the well-known issue with the Albanian who got caught with the chicken. So, is it possible for an official to be made available and to be effectively at risk of his personal and family life, while you yourself - and you were right to do so - have you streamlined the disciplinary law of the other civil servants, accepting the presumption of innocence? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have therefore tabled an amendment to streamline these existing strict provisions - I would remind you that it is the 1999 Papadopoulos law on customs - because we need to link smuggling to the level of the offence. I shall end, Mr President, by thanking the government for its tolerance and waiting for it to be placed in my amendments as well and I shall speak in my dense words about the government's amendments, because I did not want to abuse this year anymore. Thank you for her attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u174	The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Evangelos Karakostas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u175	Today's bill is another legislative procedure for harmonising national law with European Union directives. In particular, as referred to in Article 1, this is to incorporate Directive 2014/65/EU. In addition to this Directive, it has been taken into account for the preparation of this Directive, Directive 2016/1034/EU, as well as Delegated Directive No 2017/593. Incorporating Directives concern the substance of the inclusion in the scope of the legislation to be adopted, companies whose usual business activity is the provision of investment services or the pursuit of investment activities on a professional basis. Given the adoption of MiFID II, as the directive now incorporates into national law, the introduction of new financial products into the so-called market and the establishment of new investment services results. Particular importance is attached to the definition and operating conditions of public investment services undertakings. This is evidenced by the fact that in the first forty-four articles of the draft law the relevant provisions are formulated, which tend to regulate the operation of GNIs. What, though, are GDP and what interests do they serve? Do the interests of the ordinary citizen be served, or are the bankers’ shops, where the large funds of dubious origin are placed for specific purposes? The main reason for this is the optimisation of the regulatory framework within which stakeholders will move, whether they are identified in the form of a credit institution or in the form of other companies of financial interest. It can be seen - if anything - that in this bill the conflict between the communist or Marxist, if you like, an approach of the government to the neoliberal capitalist legal applications and it can be shown that none of what you have said is actually in line with the legislative initiatives that you are taking. It is clear, therefore, that today's bill is, as we have said, a copy of Community Directive 2014/65/EU, so-called and MiFID II, which is the tool, according to European and other lenders, to ensure the protection of investors and the proper functioning of the financial market. It means, therefore, that you too are following Brussels's swept-offs and, of course, the Greek bankers' complaints. This was also the result of the relevant meeting of the committee, which was invited by the Banking System representatives to Greece. The extensive articles of this bill are found in economics, but they have little effect on the real economy, the economy, that is, the vast majority of Greek citizens, the Greek taxpayers, the employed person, the pensioner, the free trader. All these provisions relate entirely to the intangible economy of false figures and the elaboration of state economies, which are now the result of the uncontrolled invasion of the capital investors and, in particular, of the infamous 'cured's capital. Proof of this is the involvement of foreign funds, which will buy so-called red loans. Recently, there has been a variety of publications and legitimate concerns about whether or not such speculations will be confirmed and if so, exactly what interests will be served by such investment initiatives. Reference must be made here to Title 6 of Part One of this, specifying the competent authorities responsible for supervising the implementation of the provisions to be adopted. The competent authorities are the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Bank of Greece. This means that the European Bank will have the task of supervising which, as we all know, is the head of European banks and related investment services. We say this again to show that nothing in Greece is working without foreign control and to prove with imprudent evidence that the country is under economic occupation. This is an admission which you all welcome here, and yet you do not have the political guts to admit in public. Of course, as long as you are prepared to serve the interests of lenders and domestic bankers, the official data published by EUROSTAT are coming to break down the development tales. According to EUROSTAT: in 177.4% of GDP, Greece's public debt for the third quarter of 2017. The Greek debt increased to EUR 313,5 billion from EUR 309,1 billion in the second quarter of 2017 and from EUR 311,3 billion in the third quarter of 2016. In addition, at the same time as you celebrate the supposed exit of Greece from the memorials and the committee in the summer of 2018, you are disguised by the European officials after each other, such as the Commissioner of the European Union for Economic Affairs, your friend Pierre Moscovisi, who states without spins and without asterisks that Greece is not going to come out of control and comitology if he does not pay 75% of the loans he has received so far. In the field in which we do recognise that there is a lasting government activity, it is in the enlargement of the customer state, in a desperate attempt by the SYRIZA - ANEL to rescue elections. As far as the attraction of investors is concerned, we believe it is not achieved by harmonising national law with Community directives, as you expressly claim, but by strengthening the real national economy, which, however, you have condemned and attempted in every way to destroy completely. Therefore, since the current governance of SYRIZA - ANEL has not shown any such effort, we intend to vote against the current draft law both at the outset and on the whole of the articles. The first eighty-six articles of this draft law essentially concern the transposition into national law of the directive of the European Union. This is, as we have said before, MiFID II, which has been an attempt to protect European financial interests legally in the crisis that broke out within the European Union, after 2007, that is, from the'bubble' of housing loans in the United States. It is clear, therefore, that the articles are not of particular interpretation, given the need to incorporate them. As is clear from the articles in Part One, it is therefore worth mentioning the legislation on the operation, control and management of EEA GDP, i.e. the Annulled Investment Services Companies. During the committee, the invited bodies mentioned one, in our view, politeness, which highlights the legislative flexibility of the Member States of the European Union regarding the adoption of directives. In particular, it is important to say that more than thirty delegated regulations apply from 3 January in the Greek banking market, without any incorporation. Therefore, we all understand the direct application of regulations which are introduced into our national law and which the Greek Parliament has not worked out. It is clear and often said that the Golden Dawn is perverse to this kind of legislative and implementing function, especially when it comes to regulating the ways in which it is handled and exploiting huge economic capital that may also come from public funds in the broad sense. That is why we are saying that we are voting against all the articles in this bill. Article 3 of this Regulation also introduces certain exceptions to categories of legal and natural persons who are likely to manage large funds and provide various types of services, insurance companies, special negotiators, persons providing occasional investment services, but also persons trading on their own account. That is to say, they are excluded from the application of the directive in particular economic interests. What is important to us is if the above categories are ultimately excluded from the stricter control framework and supervision of the competent audit authorities. Let's go to the second part of the bill. Article 111 shows a poor legislative choice of the government, which can still be affected by an occupational sector which does not belong to the low income category, but which, given the increase in VAT in the course of its activities, is not affected. I am referring to recreational craft which can accommodate and transport passengers and where this increase is imposed, when other competitive tourist countries do not bear this tax burden. We are therefore voting against this technocratic bill as a whole, as it relates exclusively to the operation of a banking system, which in recent years has weakened the lives of Greek citizens. This is a banking system which acts inconsistently with the blessings of the state. In addition to this, Greek citizens must know that behind such legal obligations are the well-known economic interests that deprive the sweat and sacrifices of the Greek people in recent years of the economic crisis. And finally, it turns out for once that the most certain way to the faithful implementation of the neoliberal economic model, which is shaped by the capitalist system, is the very rule of the Marxist Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u176	The reason is the special speaker from the Potami Mr. Spyridon Dannelis after the courtesy of Mr. Vardalis's series because he must be at 14.00 hours out of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, my good colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law actually debates the markets for financial instruments, while allowing the creation and development of new investment products more complex than we have known to date, for example bonds or shares, apart from structured markets, for example, the Stock Exchange, the interbank market. Basically, the provisions that are introduced protect the security of trade, controls are carried out by the Securities and Bank of Greece and physical checks on the origin of the funds, both of which are established GDP and of the customers. We hope that this draft law will be a headline in order to submit original projects of investment products that are attractive to the public, so that the funds on the mattresses or abroad will reinfluence the Greek market. It will have a significant impact on investors' income through the application of the new regulations. Transactions will now take place in new trading venues and with particularly increased transparency requirements, which will primarily lead to increased competition and the reduction of spreads, i.e. the difference between sales price and market price. When this directive is incorporated, we believe that in the long term a more transparent and highly marketable financial market will be achieved within the framework of a united Europe. This creates important opportunities, especially for banks and market infrastructure providers, in the acquisition of market shares and in particular for those who invest in escalating platforms, reducing functional complexity for their customer base. However, in addition to the benefits and facilities provided by the new revised directive, it should be noted that there are significant cost impacts. For example, in 2011, the European Commission established as an estimated initial cost for the implementation of Directive 65/2004 between EUR 512 and 732 million and an upcoming total cost for the adjustment of EUR 312 to EUR 586 million. Compared, of course, with the cost of the original directive 92/2002, which was 2 billion, the cost of implementing the new directive is undoubtedly much smaller, despite the fact that the scope has been extended and could lead to costs that go beyond expectations. Taking into account the cost of the investment required to balance the market and to meet the new regulatory requirements, together with the increased amounts of capital and liquidity requirements, due to the Basel III Treaty, some companies will, unfortunately, cease to be profitable and, of course, this can apply to medium-sized enterprises that do not have to invest the capital required. Perhaps again, with the extension of Directive 65/2014, a shift will be presented to industry to more providers outsourcing. Enlargement of investment activities in more trading venues is likely to attract more small value transactions. However, the strengthening of trade in OTC derivatives as well as the financial system innovations will have a significant impact on the functioning of the market. Many capital managers and other intermediaries, who are unable to adapt to the new systems, will be forced to rely on an external outsourcing of investment services. These, however, should carry out the necessary procedures for the implementation of the regulatory framework and for the management of complex financial data. It will also have to be taken into account that Directive 65/2014 is not a simple directive. Its implementation includes thousands of regulations, which continue to grow as close as we are to its implementation. The implementation should have taken place on 3 January 2018, i.e. 20 days ago. But I would like to point out that, unfortunately, we are too late to go along with this directive. Of course, another comment concerns the selection of the Securities and Bank of Greece as supervisory authorities and their relations with the Ministry of Finance in order to implement the directive under discussion. I would remind you that in the other Member States the respective supervisory authorities are independent authorities. In our case, the Bank of Greece is both supervised and supervised, and this in itself raises some institutional issues. The purpose of the directive is to include derivatives and all transactions in simple products in order to record risks. Theoretically it aims to make all transactions recorded. This directive obliges anyone who orders this to be done by electronic means rather than by oral means. Thousands of billion-hour files will record everything and can be decoded. These orders shall be accompanied by a certified electronic seal with the accuracy of one ten millimetre of the second. The information to be recorded shall relate to at least sixty-five different types of registration information. On the substance, of course, the question arises: What normal company can have specialised executives who are able to know thousands of paragraphs of regulations, have a certified electronic precision seal of one ten millimetres, store information in sixty-five registration fields, and at the same time be able to demonstrate that they were the best transactions that took place in that nanosecondary world in any market? I fear that in our country almost nothing, given the size of Greek businesses. I would remind you that the stock market in our country is declining. Of the five-and-a-half thousand employment workers in 1999, eight hundred workers have just left today. We are talking about a registered fall of 85.64% in jobs over the last nineteen years. There are therefore thirty-five private Greek stock exchanges, which this Directive primarily concerns. They must be prepared to do so, as it seems to me that there is no necessary staff for the extra work that is being planned. In conclusion, I would also like to support a legislative improvement tabled by Mr Theocharis concerning the legislative improvement in paragraph 4 of Article 93 of this bill. The amendment relates to the rules governing certificates of professional fitness in relation to the respective Member States of the European Union. No country shall provide for a procedure for the renewal of a certificate of professional fitness when such staff are specialised and exclusively engaged in the provision of investment services. In our country, both the occasionally employed staff and the above members are forced to recertify their professional fitness. I think it is appropriate to distinguish between these two categories, the two cases. In principle, as we have said in committee, we are voting in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u178	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Vardalis Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law harmonises in Greek legislation Directive 2014/65 of the European Union on arrangements for the operation of public limited investment brokerage companies and public limited companies for the provision of investment services. What is the European Union trying to do with this directive? A number of views have been heard here from the parties' representatives before. What is the aim of the European Union with such a directive? First of all, the Directive extends the time to implement uniform rules for the management and information of investors and the competent authorities in trade in all types of financial products on the single European financial market. It does this mainly for technical reasons, because the Member States have slowed down to adopt the directive, but also because basic infrastructure is needed to implement it. At least that is what the European Commission invokes in its proposal. Most of all, however, in a climate of strong and increasingly escalating competitions of global economic sizes but also of states, it seeks to lay certain competition rules, as their permanent fear is not to be their economic rival, who will have a dominant position on the market, but to have themselves. Of course, these rules will be exceeded at the very next moment by the groups, which will ultimately gain more positions in this competition. Similar agreements and guidelines have also been decided at G-20 level, as this is not only about the European Union and its Member States, but about competition at global level. Another reason for adopting the directive is this: with the experience gained from the economic capitalist crisis that broke out in 2008 and because it knows that it cannot prevent such capitalist economic crises, it wants to shield financial markets, as naturally as it is done, in order to ensure their proper functioning in a corresponding capitalist crisis that can erupt in the future. The real problem lies in the capitalist economies themselves. The signs show that things are not as encouraging as they at least want to be presented by some. All of them would like to see great economic growth, but elsewhere there is slowdown, elsewhere recession and elsewhere anaemic growth. This is what they see and shield the markets in financial instruments. Finally, this directive forms part of the completion of one of the European Union's central objectives in the context of the difficult process - and with obstacles to competition - a process of deepening Euro-Union integration. It is about uniting the capital markets, a complement to the banking union which jointly seeks to ensure strong and uninterrupted capital strengthening of business groups, strengthening their profitability and position in competition with groups from other strong economic forces worldwide. The Union's 'psychology' is to significantly increase all kinds of funds invested in stock exchanges and outside them, which in turn fully fund listed business groups for free. You see, the banking lending of businesses is still difficult not only by the capital misfortune of many banks, but also entails a burden on interest and the freezing of their assets as a guarantee of these loans they receive. All of this does not exist in the case of the financing of enterprises from the Stock Exchange and from these over-the-counter transactions, from the money of investors playing in them. So all these rules you refer to relate to anonymous investment brokering companies and to conditions of competition between them and nothing more and nothing more to do with the protection of the people's interests. From this point of view, it makes no particular sense to discuss in detail the technical details of this directive which fall within the article in question, namely how these financial markets or aspects of their supervision and rules will function. Ladies and gentlemen, the directive puts forward the need for so-called 'transparency', 'control','supervisory','supervision','supervision','supermarkets' and exchange-trade derivatives to strengthen confidence in financial markets. It claims, in other words, that it imposes fair and transparent rules of operation. Which area? In the most parasitic and speculative part of capital, in stock markets, which accumulate accumulated capital and are a mechanism for redistribution and concentration of wealth produced by socially by the workers, it was ended up through goodwill called "profit", a part of which is led to stock market gambling, multiplyed or even diminished in periods of crisis literally within one night, as was certainly the case with the Greek Stock Exchange and the "fuss" of the 1990s, when with a systematic culture of developmental and stock market euphoria in a phase of capitalist development, thousands of small savers were drawn away from their savings with the crisis. No supervision, no transparency, no flow of information and rules can change this reality, they cannot secure and protect the people's saver. Large investors have, anyway, the protection of their position and, of course, the protection of every Member State of the European Union and of the European Union itself. Indicative in this respect is the recapitalisation of banks with people's money, the hunting of red loans in Greece and throughout the European Union, as well as the assistance of the urban state in general for the capital support of banks. It is therefore a contradiction for all the other parties to claim that some rules on information about transparency in trade can prevent the loss of properties and popular savings when these so-called investments are completely unsafe and vulnerable. It is, in the opinion of the Communist Party of Greece, a mockery when it comes to dealing with the most parasitic part, as I said earlier, of capital, with purchases directed by the large groups, where big fish eats the little fish. And for the buckle of small savers who become'micro-investors' nor a reason to do so. They are condemned to pay the price of their deception and credentials. Next, the only thing that is certain is that, on the financial markets, the only winner is the big capital, because, in essence, this is a mechanism in which money, cheap money, cheap funds, can be used to give the business groups an opportunity to invest, as you say, to develop the economy, i.e. the profits of business groups. Money markets with or without rules are and - as long as they exist - will benefit capital. It will remain a tool for big companies to draw easy and cheap money from the people. It will remain a robbery mechanism to make richer and poorer. Theft at the expense of the people through these markets will be made thanks to the laws of the free market. That is the capitalism you support by voting for such instructions too. People's strata must have absolutely no confidence in their financial markets and derivatives. The easy profits they promise at times and present in the eyes of the people are bait. Every time a cycle of operation closes, the people come out anyway has double and three losers. Workers must end up with the illusions that if they 'right' invest any small savings they will make their lives better. She can only get better with fighting theirs. It is time for the people to draw their own conclusions for the stock exchange, in general for the financial markets, for the causes of the capitalist economic crisis, but also for the political forces that serve the profitability of business groups. To draw conclusions because the attack on capital, government and the European Union will not be complete. Already, with the decisions of the recent Eurogroup, they are preparing the next round of the attack. The fourth assessment is ahead of us. The next period stands out the issue of auctions in the face of the need for capital to support the banking system so that it too can feed the business groups cheaply. An apocalyptic in this direction is the compliance report to which another Member referred earlier. For 2018, banks design ten thousand auctions, with further growth in forty thousand for the next three years. In other words, the next three years in total will come to the hammer of thirty thousand real estate. Of course, there are all the other prerequisites and we will also open up the debate on settlements in debt repayment, which means new anti-grassroots measures beyond what has already been agreed. All this proves that the suffering of the people is not perfect, since all the old and new commitments will apply for many more years. The main thing is that people do not seek solutions where they do not exist and then are disappointed. Now it is neither a waiting time nor a callippi time, but it is a time to organize, fight and strengthen the struggle. What is needed is profound changes in the economy and society. Solution for the benefit of the people can come only if the people's struggles against capital and the whole of anti-grass policy are strengthened, only if parties that serve the choices of business groups are weakened. Finally, let us see what is the key issue that as a Communist Party of Greece, on the occasion of today's debate in the bill and taking into account developments on this issue, we want to underline. If one follows developments with a little attention, it will be easy to see that all the European Union's institutions in their decisions, not only salute the Union of capital markets, but encourage and legislate accordingly to lead to stock exchanges and financial markets and the last remaining remains of people's deposits of all kinds. And because popular bank statements are falling under the blows of today's policy, the aim is to reserve the insurance funds and private insurance companies. These are huge sums which the European Union and governments consider unexploited and seek to'strate' them - in introductory terms - in economic capitalist revival, to finance their groups through stock exchanges. In fact, the Commission is taking a step further: it has adopted and proceeded with the creation of a single insurance product for the whole of the European Union, which will be purchased by those who have a minimum surplus, with the expectation that the level of charity at which pensions are present and even when these have been set to fall further in order to reduce companies and the State from non-wage insurance costs. Any insurance costs, any private insured person, either with today's private insurance plans or through the new single insurance product, are intended to be taken into the stock exchanges for the financing of companies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be out in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u180	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u181	That's not what we say. There is a statement from the Commission on the objective of creating this insurance product. The workers and pensioners of our country have not forgotten what happened with the reserves of the funds when they still have the freedom to gamble the workers' money. Then they told us this was a modernisation, so it all began. They delivered their workers and their funds to the yapids and the stock crows. In fact, then, you were all accusing the JRC of dogmatism because it disagreed with the gambling of the reserves, saying that insurance agencies are institutional investors. What we want to stress, therefore, is that precisely the pensions and reserves of the insurance funds must not only be placed, but also the withdrawal of any reserves placed on financial markets, precisely because the insurance funds are always lost from such a process, such a placement. What you are doing is making use of the money of the insured, who with labor and sacrifices have gathered a life to get a pension to ensure very cheap financing of business groups. As far as the fifth part of the bill is concerned, that is to say the other provisions relating to the Ministry of Finance, we shall be put in our vote and I shall refer to a number of amendments in second place. Overall, we will vote against this bill in principle, not just because it incorporates a directive of the European Union, but mainly for the contents it has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u182	Mr Konstantinos Katsikis, special speaker of the ANELs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u183	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance, consisting of five parts and a hundred and twenty articles as a whole, is a key tool for the functioning of the European capital market and strengthens the framework for regulating markets in financial instruments, including over-the-counter transactions. This draft law follows the regulations and provisions of Directive 2014/65 of the European Parliament. The aim of this directive is therefore to harmonise the conditions for authorisation to investment firms and the rules for carrying out their activities so as to ensure the interests of investors and, on the one hand, to facilitate the provision of investment services and the pursuit of investment activities throughout the European Union on the basis of supervision of the home Member State. In particular, the provisions of the draft law are limited to OTC transactions in shares and derivatives and the operation is ensured on the same terms of transparency in all trading venues. The provisions of the draft law apply to investment firms, market operators, data reporting services providers and third-country enterprises providing investment services or carrying out investment activities through the establishment of a branch in Greece. In order to facilitate better access by small and medium-sized enterprises to the capital markets, a specific market is established that operates as a multilateral trading mechanism for SMEs with specific obligations. The financial crisis has revealed its weaknesses so far in terms of the functioning and transparency of financial markets and has demonstrated the need to strengthen the framework for regulating financial instruments markets, including OTC transactions in those markets. The aim of this draft law is to increase transparency, better investor protection, strengthen confidence, address the unregulated sectors and ensure the provision of adequate powers to supervisory bodies to carry out their tasks. As extensive references have been made to the part concerning the markets in financial instruments at previous meetings, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to focus on a number of comments concerning other individual articles in the draft law. Article 111 concerning the exemption from the tax on the delivery and import of ships with a view to fully harmonising with the corresponding provision of the VAT Directive/2006/112 sets out the conditions to be met by ships intended to be used in offshore shipping to be covered by the exemption. By the new provisions of 1-1-2018, the delivery and import of tax-free vessels are for ships intended for use in offshore navigation engaged in the carriage of passengers by or through commercial, industrial or fishing activities, including spongiform encephalopathy. In addition, it concerns coastal fishing vessels, ships intended for dismantling, warships and public ships, seafarers and other sea aid vessels. Private vessels intended for recreation or sport are excluded. Article 112 lays down the detailed rules for calculating the annual traffic charges for private use of passenger vehicles from third countries under the temporary import suspension regime. In particular, it is laid down that as a criterion for the classification in the relevant engine rolling tariff table the date of the vehicle being placed under the temporary importation regime in Greece shall be taken into account. The following shall apply to year 2017 marketing fees and thereafter. The proposed regulation provides, for two years, for heirs instead of one year, with a six-month extension, the scope for releasing the vehicle received with an exemption from a registration fee for disabled persons. But if two years are over, a fine of 300 euros will be imposed. Furthermore, the Customs Region of Attica is defined as the competent authority for the customs settlement, release of wheelchairs, even in the case of late applications by the heirs of the deceased disabled without the mediation of the General Secretariat of Public Revenues. This arrangement is necessary for the more rapid service of the citizens of trade by direct submission to the Customs Region of late applications for customs clearance, release of the heirs of deceased disabled persons, without requiring prior submission of an application to the Secretariat-General for Public Revenue. With regard to the fixed settlement of debts provided for in Article 114, which extends to the earlier debt arrangement of L4152/2013 the right to a delay in the payment of a instalment, as from 1 January 2018 these debtors may also request a settlement before they are due to be due. First of all, this is a more rapid collection of public revenue, since taxpayers will not be obliged to expect their debt to be due in order to regulate it. In parallel to this amendment, both debts received under the Public Revenue Code and debts which fall within the scope of the Code on Tax Procedure and for which the possibility of regulation is already provided before the deadline for payment has expired is met. The taxpayers will now be able to submit applications electronically via TAXISnet, responsible for regulating up to twelve monthly instalments of their regular tax debts or up to twenty-four monthly instalments of their debts from exceptional causes, such as legacy taxes, before they even become due. In other words, the possibility is that taxpayers should be included in the fixed arrangement for non-currency debts to the State without having to come to the competent ILO for the submission of the requested applications and supporting documents. This possibility, now provided by the above provision, will help more than four hundred thousand public debtors in order not to lose the setting of a hundred instalments for their old debts. At the same time, it prevents the creation of new dues, which as of 1 January 2018, in accordance with the provisions of Article 4 of Law4346/2015, will now be due to the regulation of the hundreds of instalments for the older debts. Finally, as regards Articles 116 and 117, the provisions relating to the time of the entry into force of the new method of calculating the interest on late payment of public revenue are amended and an extension for the time of their application is granted. In fact, the debtor has an obligation to pay the interest for the whole month, even though he has been late one day to repay his tax debt. More specifically, the per day intensified charge that it was supposed to start from the new year will be postponed for two more years, because this software has not yet been put into operation. The proposed extension is deemed necessary in view of the prioritisation of the objectives and actions of the operational plan of the independent public revenue authority of 2017, such as the extra-judicial settlement mechanism. The Independent Greeks are voting in favour of this draft law, through which the relevant European Union directive on the markets in financial instruments is incorporated into national legislation and, at the same time, we support all individual provisions subject to the obligation to introduce future improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u184	Now here's how we keep going. Mr Theocharis has made an incredible dripla. He convinced Mr Michelonanakis, Mr Athanasios, Mr Karras, the Minister and Mr Tindemans that he had asked for the floor, because - he says - a strict professional appointment outside, to take precedence over it. I'm not very convinced this is a business date, but we're going to do his favor. You have the floor, Mr Theochari, for seven to eight minutes, since you are also in order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u185	I should like to thank, Mr President, you, the Minister, the Members who accepted the change in order, but also the House who accepted this change. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are incorporating Directive 2014/65/EU into national law on markets in financial instruments. The so-called MiFID II affects all those involved in the negotiation and management of financial instruments, namely, business models, as well as their systems, data management, human resources, customers and procedures. It is therefore an integrated intervention on the capital markets and, more generally, on the financial markets. It is a necessary step to move forward in the single European market of capital and, in particular, in a Europe in which banks are in a position that is not characterised as the best. You know that every year strasses find various problems, boosts trust in banks, but businesses are narrowing and looking to find outlets to find funds. In our country, furthermore, there is an even greater need, as the data on red loans, on red exposures to systemic banks, which are the main banks that control the banking market in our country, obviously have problems and therefore businesses need to operate a financial market with credibility and confidence. My agreement, therefore, to incorporate this directive into our national law, for the majority of the provisions to be voted on, does not mean that there are no specific objections, which we have been in consultation with the Ministry for the previous time. Some of these could be corrected, but some still need to be corrected. I am therefore going to be allowed to make this statement so that they can be recorded and hopefully that the Ministry's services will have a positive outcome and that the problems can be rectified. I would stress that these points have been pointed out to us by the institutions during their hearing, but also by the fact that there is a cross-party agreement in general. And by the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Pavlides, both from PASOK and from the Potami, but I am sure that from the other parties too, there is agreement to support these four requests that are reasonable and unreasonable. The market really is right when he's asking for them right now. Ladies and gentlemen, an economy that is now eight years in crisis, which has capital control, of which funds are leaking from abroad, and now the new minds are leaking, our children, but gradually, and therefore businesses are having too many structural problems, obviously need too much to come out of the crisis. One of these is to regain confidence in all areas. Trust is a huge social capital, which is seen directly in the areas of banking faith, but of course also financial markets. It is a first factor, which will enable investment and growth to be consolidated in our country as well and finally to find the Greek jobs, to reduce, in fact, unemployment and not just low-paid jobs. What are the problems we have identified? These are three issues relating to the investment services companies which, as I have said before, have been presented to the committee. The first issue is co-financing. These companies and, before, they had to put about 20% of their capital into the mutual fund, now is 100% of the minimum capital. While the liabilities in capital are reduced, they must give it to their mutual funds. This means in practice that the reduction you have made is not real, it will not be on paper, because obviously it is not possible for all of the capital of a company to be given the backup and therefore it will need more capital to be able to operate in practice. The Minister tells us that he will examine all the issues of mutual funds together so that they can be properly solved and not fragmented. That is acceptable. However, you can be sure that we will be following you in the next few weeks with nuisances until this problem is solved. And I will also call for the cooperation of colleagues, because there is - as I have said - a cross-party agreement. When you have a chapter of 50 000, it makes sense - let us say it - that about 25 000, that is, 50% of this goes to the pool. The second is the question of the renewal of licences, the renewal of the certification of professional qualifications. We're talking about people doing this job permanently, we're not talking about the bank employees doing this job, but they may also give loans, they may make Rotation and go to the cashier. Obviously in these cases there is a need for continuous recertification. But to people, Mrs. Minister, who work permanently in this area...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u186	We'll bring me legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u187	So I hear that there will be a legislative improvement in this matter so that it can be improved. And it is good that the Ministry has indeed heard this issue and solved it. The third issue is the question of prolongation. In particular, smaller companies need more time to be able to change their contracts and make the necessary changes. There is also the question of harmonisation with the GDPR, the directive, which starts in May. It would be advisable for the Ministry to examine this and in practice. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise the last point. It is an amendment I tabled for your use. It is a draft amendment. We didn't formally testify to her. But there is also a cross-party consensus for them. And Mr Koutsoukos who is following me, but other colleagues are also in agreement. At the moment we have a matter with the special property tax. The legislator has excluded everyone on stock markets from being listed companies. Indeed, because the purpose of the DAS legislator was to tax offshore companies or to disclose them in any event, not of course quoted who have nothing to hide. It came back then - since this law has worked in practice and had no problem - MiFID I, and now MiFID II, to repeat the definition and distinguish the listed companies or markets in two species. The other Nasdaq is Wall Street. Others AIM and the London Stock Exchange. And in this case there is a fear that, in fact, the legislator may want more to be interpreted by the services. So here we have a specific proposal. We are waiting, since you have not been able - as the Ministry has told us - to examine it with the services, that will be the next time. And we must as soon as possible be able to resolve this issue and not be taxed against the will of the legislator companies that have no reason to tax them. Thank you again for the fact that the show has changed and I have been able to speak. And we obviously agree and support this bill with the reservations we have mentioned. And we look forward to the Ministry's cooperation to solve them in the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. Mr Kaklamanis had already announced that the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy will speak. He is missing from the speakers - he is, anyway, - Mr Cavalellas from the Centron Association. Mr Tindemans, I just want to get to grips with this and of course with you first. He asked for the Minister to intervene at the end of the speeches of the speakers and rapporteurs. I propose, if you agree, that we give the floor to the last speaker, namely to conclude the parties' positions. Then the Minister will speak, and then Mr. Dendias will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u189	I shall also mention the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u190	Whatever you want. Does your intervention concern only the amendments, or will you also place them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u191	No, it's gonna be my total location.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u192	Okay, as you wish, there's no problem. Mr. Tendia, do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u193	I don't have a problem, I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u194	Thank you. Mr Cavalellas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary the draft law on the markets in financial instruments. It is a bill in which we have already formulated our reservations by explaining, of course, with arguments why the Central Association cannot vote in favour of it. I tried in my earlier speech to focus on some of the points which make it difficult for us to vote on this bill even though it is, of course, the transposition of a Community directive by MiFID II. You are all well aware of the pro-European attitude of our party. However, we cannot accept anything that is of European origin without a weighting. We believe that the bill with its overregulation will be disastrous for Greek small and medium-sized enterprises, for the majority of them, which will not be able to withstand competition from large companies, due to the excessive increase in operating costs involved in the new regulations and the inability of the banks to support some reforms and some small investments. In addition, we believe that an in-depth debate should be held on what the application of the directive will cause only European companies, as envisaged, in terms of their competition with third country enterprises. But let us look at some of MiFID II's forecasts more closely. Stock exchange companies either have their own products or third party products, such as distributors, must have specified which categories of investors are suitable or compatible. There must therefore be provision for product management. Exchange companies on their part should charge their customers for analysis services and if they do not want to do so, they should disclose which individual categories of customers exempt from the relevant expenditure. The McKinsey study states that the costs of analyses will be limited by banks and investment firms of EUR 1 to 2 billion. For our country, such an expenditure, which will be reduced, is important. In Great Britain they ask listed companies to cover the cost of analysis themselves. The listed passives, the Exchange Traded Funds, that is, the trading funds we could say in our own language, will develop because they will have very low comparative costs on every stock market. The intention of the regulators is to develop in the European Union more qualitatively independent research companies. Analysts who are not in three - four best of each industry, of course, will stay without work. Once a year anonymous stock exchange companies are obliged to inform their clients with financial statements, not only about their returns, but also about their amount. If the provisions of the stock exchange company were to be terminated, we are asking the inventional bureaucracy of Brussels and the Members of Parliament who voted for this provision, without, of course, reading the consultation, as follows. Without them, how can a company survive on a cause? We need to think about this before it is extended to all products sold for supermarkets, shops, etc. I note that the 'BLOOMBERG' in its study reaches the same conclusions at least for stock exchanges and companies, companies active in this area. Such a development clearly favours the OTC markets and, of course, the large foreign banks, which can become systematic internalisers. Instead of reducing the price openings, so-called spreads, through an increase in liquidity and thus investors having better price executions based on the absolute number, it is foreseen that spreads and investors will be well executed, but in a higher opening, in a larger spread. So the results will be bleak in absolute numbers, since the figures are the ones that determine profits and capital movements. The new directive on the execution of transactions stipulates that GDP will now be obliged to take those measures so that when the mandates are implemented they will achieve the best result for the customer. The best result is the total price, which includes, on the one hand, the price of the financial instrument, but on the other hand, the costs associated with the execution of a mandate. At this cost, that is, we could include all the costs borne by the customer and in the event of competitive trading venues, EEA GDP is obliged to compare them, taking into account the supply it takes itself, as well as the costs borne by the customer. In this case you should choose what will contribute to the optimal outcome for the customer. In addition, FVC should not receive any remuneration, discount, to direct customer orders to a particular place. This change may also open up a large capital, which is being discussed in the market for GDP profits, which will no longer exist. The EIF shall be obliged to inform its client of the place where the order was implemented. It should also inform its clients of the policy of executing orders that they will follow. Some information should be included in this policy, which explains exactly and in the simplest and most understandable way how the EEA GDP implements these orders. They are obliged, therefore, every year, to make public the five first places to which they have carried out orders, as well as information on the quality achieved, for the quality effect, we could say. The new directive also changes the framework for client pre-paid information. This directive also brings great changes to the requirements for the authorisation and operation of an EIF. The most important change, however, which will change the financial market a great deal, is the restriction of OTC transactions. The only thing for sure is that this directive will bring up, beyond the obvious changes that are generally described in the legislation. We can focus on the good execution of the orders, but there are issues and costs arising from the directive, in which many stock exchanges will not be able to respond. This will result in us soon seeing a new setting in this area, with smaller EEA GDP merged or even closed. Is it thanks to this directive, ultimately, besides investors, are the big players being protected? In conclusion, I would stress that these two regulations, MiFIR and PRIIPs, are being applied throughout the European Union and apply from 3-1-2018 and 31-12-2017 respectively. The mandatory MiFID II Directive applies from 3-1-2018. I would like to point out that the parliaments of the remaining twenty-seven countries have voted. The only exception, of course, is our country, because it is not because of a workload that the relevant bills have not been tabled in the House and so, of course, they have not been voted, nor are they to be voted on soon. Following the adoption of the law, implementing decisions should be adopted by the Securities and Markets Committee, and there should be a reasonable wait here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr. Cavadela. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that, under No 1290/893, from 25 January 2018, the President of Parliament's decision was to set up the committees provided for in Rule 46 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Parliament's Finance Committees and Parliament's Library for the IIIth Session of the IZ' Parliamentary Period. The decision in question has been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u197	The Foreign Minister, Mrs Papanatsiou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the special speaker of the Democratic Association is rushing to draw conclusions on the debt when there are today contacts between the Prime Minister and the Finance Commissioner, Mr Moscovisi, as well as with the Director of the International Monetary Fund, Mrs Lagard. The special speaker of the Communist Party is also in a hurry because he is concerned, if we settle the debt, who will bear the burden rather than the reductions. We have heard from the media in recent days that they have discovered an agreement and some have transferred it to the House. There is no government agreement to carry out thirty thousand auctions over the next four years. The Eurogroup's meeting decided to close the third assessment without mentioning the specific number of auctions announced. There is also no number of auctions in the official texts of the Agreement. These texts include the country's commitments for the next and final evaluation of the Greek programme. Reference to number is only found in the Report on the Compliance of Institutions for the Third Assessment, which is not a text of agreement, but information material for the Member States of the Eurozone. Here I would like to mention that bank auctions should not be confused with public auctions, or public confiscations with public auctions. I'm going to report a few facts again. In 2016, eleven auctions were made by the State and nine other in 2017, in fact for very high amounts and not for the first and only residence, the value of which is close to the tax-free amount. The State usually does not have an interest in opening an auction due to its ranking order. On the contrary, it makes seizures, i.e. essentially commits the property in order to ensure the public interest and not to waive the debt. Let's see the bill now. The bill we are discussing includes a number of articles in my portfolio, which solve a number of issues that I will explain at once. The regulation in Article 111 harmonises the VAT Code with the Sixth VAT Directive and makes legal adjustments for fishing vessels and for inshore vessels, which continue to enjoy the exculpatory provisions of Article 27 of Law 2859/2000. With Article 112 we have a legal vacuum, and we are dealing with the case of third-country vehicles, i.e. outside the European Union, which are in temporary admission suspension, as regards the payment of traffic charges. In particular, the levying of charges in these cases takes into account the rolling of the vehicle, in accordance with the date on which the vehicle was placed on temporary importation. The proposed provision of Article 113 extends the period for the customs settlement, the release of wheelchairs by the heirs of disabled persons who had received duty-free vehicles. The period from one year shall be two years from the death of the disabled person. At the same time it is determined and what will be the competent customs authority, which is the Customs Region of Attica. The arrangement comes to facilitate the heirs of disabled beneficiaries and to face delays that have occurred and made the period of one year insufficient for the customs settlement of inherited wheelchairs. Article 114 is now possible to provide for the adjustment of certified debts electronically before they become due. In this way, it will first be possible to collect public revenue more quickly, as taxpayers will not be required to expect that their debt will become due in order to regulate it. In addition, this arrangement avoids problems of losing the 100-dose setting. Here, it should be noted that, as from 1 January 2018, the 100 instalments, if there is no payment in time, as well as the payment of the new debts, may be lost. In this way, they now have the possibility of electronically, without going to the DU anymore, before they become too late to be able to regulate them. So this is a question solved, so that there is no reason to have an issue with the hundred doses of those who have joined. Article 115 provides for a permanent request by producers of vinegar and prohibits the processing of ethyl alcohol with other raw materials producing vinegar, as well as the mixing of alcohol vinegar with other categories of vinegar. The aim of this arrangement is to facilitate and assist the smaller arcs in the country, which do not have the technological equipment to fulfil the current requirements of vinegar production, but also to provide more general support for producers and the production of a basic export product. Here, I would like to say that the controls will be intensified and there will be the administrative decision to resolve control issues. I respond to the remarks made by colleagues in opposition. Articles 116 and 117 provide an extension to the time-limit for the implementation of the new method of calculation of late payment interest and the order of recovery until 31 December 2019. The previous time period was until 31 December 2017. We could not start with the daily interest, since the adjustments to the information systems of "TAXIS" and "TAXISnet" are not yet ready. I shall now refer to the amendments which have been tabled. Amendment No 1447, and specific number 233, amends Article 53 of L.4389/2016 on the residence tax. As stated in this amendment, he is charged solely with the hotel accommodation, room or apartment, after his stay in the accommodation and before his departure from it, with the issue of a special document in which VAT is not levied. It is attributed by the company to tax administration with monthly declarations until the last day of next month. The same amendment extends the VAT exemption applicable to defence works within NATO and to projects under the US Common Defence Assistance Programme, in implementation of the provisions of Decree-Law 2672/1953. With the amendment of a general number 1453 and a specialist of 239 we proceed with the concession of the former Camp Kodra to the Municipality of Kalamaria. The wider area of the former Camp Kodra is a super-local pole of green and free spaces, and most of this has already been characterised as a historic site since 2005. Parts of this have been described as monuments with decisions of the Ministry of Culture. In the current quarry plan Kalamaria, as well as in the current general town plan of the Municipality of Kalamaria, the area of the former Camp Kodra is characterised as an urban green area of a super-local nature. The proposed arrangement is granted for reasons of public interest the use of most of the area of the former Camp Kodra for a period of ninety years to the Municipality of Kalamaria. What is the purpose of the concession? It is the exploitation of the concessioned area of the former Camp Kodra with its incorporation into the urban fabric and the social life of the city as an area of super-local greenery and recreation and its simultaneous protection and promotion. The Municipality of Kalamaria will be able to develop and then manage the above activities and infrastructure in accordance with the responsibilities conferred on it by the current legislation. I would like to point out here that parts of the camp area have been excluded from the Ministry of Culture and the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, as well as those which are being treated as a procedural issue. The same amendment redrafts the provision in paragraph 1 of Article 74 of the National Customs Code in order to make it clear that for specific products the excise duty becomes payable when specific causes, such as their use, occur for sale as motor fuel, heating, etc. Hydrocarbons other than peat not provided for in Article 72 of the National Customs Code are also added in such cases for reasons of correct interpretation of the legislation. A new paragraph 9 of Article 109 of the Customs Code, setting out the time for certifying and collecting excise duty applicable to the products referred to in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of Article 73, various energy products and hydrocarbons which are to be used for sale or used as heating fuels or motors, shall also be added. This time shall be laid down in the 20th day of the following month from the month in which the sale or consumption took place. The proposed provision seeks to establish a common procedure for the payment of excise duty in all cases of products covered by those provisions in order to ensure uniform treatment of the said products. As far as the other Ministries' amendments - those supported by Mr Stathakis and Mrs Konordos - are concerned, I accept the general amendment by Mr Stathakis. The 1454/240 amendment again by Mr Stathakis is accepted and Mrs Connordou's general number 1451 and Mrs Connordou's special amendment 241 is also accepted. I now come to the amendments tabled by Mr Koutsukouko. As far as General Number 1451 and Special Amendment No 237 are concerned, because it has also been requested by other Members of Parliament, we will examine the regulatory framework for the co-financing - so that we do not look at them in part - and bring them to a next meeting. Amendment Nos 1452 and 238, with regard to disciplinary customs and Article 159, are not acceptable at this stage, because changes in disciplinary law must be made with particular attention. We will look at the proposal and come back when we think we can bring it back. With regard to the amendment, number 1448, and number 234-, it is a parliamentary amendment tabled by Mr Koutsoukos, which we cannot accept, because in essence it creates a special salary for the Ministry of Finance, the legal persons, the AIA and the Court of Auditors. I would like to make something clear about this amendment. There is no disagreement on the substance. We all agree and the government is in agreement and I also convey the Minister's view on this matter. There are no objections to the substance. Indeed, as you have mentioned, Mr Kutsuko, there are wage differences that do not have to do with the nature of work, but with when someone was hired or transferred. And we understand that this is not only unfair, but also creates rewards for services. We have already proved that our government is solving such issues. He's already done it with the 1K at the end of 2015. It will go on with these specific accusations, the ones you have raised. We're working on some solutions that will give an answer to this wage injustice. However, we must first start to resolve the issue. We will work with all interested parties and bring her in the next period, taking into account all the existing agreements in relation to the single wage. I now come to Amendment No 1449 and to specific number 235, by Mr Koutsoukos again. As far as the first paragraph is concerned, we do not change it. We're keeping the notification to the Securities and Exchange Commission. We think it should be done for the first and second paragraphs. Also for the fourth paragraph, the participation rate has dropped from 25% to 10%. We do not consider it appropriate that it should come down below. As far as the third paragraph is concerned, we are making it acceptable and it will be within the legislative improvements, which I must now present and report to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u199	I'm sorry, I don't understand. Do you accept Amendment No 1449, number 1449?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u200	From General Number 1449 and Special Number 235, paragraph 3, to Legislative Improvements. I should also like to mention what other legislative improvements are made, because several of them have been said in the positions of special speakers. First of all we accept Mr Koutsoukos' proposal to abolish the provisions of Articles 1 to 70 of Law 3606/2007 and Article 59 of Law 4509/2017, since more than all of them are included in today's bill. As far as Article 111, paragraph 3 is concerned, we have to say that in the Ministry of Finance's decision, we include the fact that there will be a joint decision by the Ministers for Finance and Maritime Affairs, since the institutions that had come in have asked for it. At the same time, we accept the proposal of the SIRENE Bureau for an extension of the deadline and 1-1-2018 is replaced by 1-4-2018 for the validity of Article 111. We delete Rule 119 after the remarks made by the rapporteur for the Civilian Representation. Also, with regard to paragraph 4 of Article 93, which was also a request from the rapporteur for Officers and special speakers and colleagues' seats, in this case we will truly retain the recertification for executives of credit institutions that do not have permanent professional certification, such as investment companies. As regards the managers of the investment companies, which are specialised on the one hand and are employed exclusively by the provision of investment services, they will not be required to recertify them. The rest are purely formal. You'll see them after all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u201	Will they be distributed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u202	Yeah, I've already testified them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u203	All right, thanks to the Minister. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr. Dendias has the floor. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not use all my time. I don't think that's necessary. With regard to the integration of Directive 2014/65/EU and the first four chapters - because the fifth chapter of the legislation concerns issues of the Ministry of Finance - I would just like to refer to the comments made by Professor Fortsakis, who analysed the legislation, with reservations of course. He correctly analysed, analyzed the reservations as well as accounted for. I think it has made a clear impression on this legislation, which, in any case, as it constitutes ratification of a Community directive, the New Democracy is traditionally standing positive. You will allow me to spend a few more minutes, to remind all of you that today it is St. Gregorios's and besides St. Gregorios, for which you will obviously wish, celebrate - you know - and the Margarets, to whom, I imagine - you will wish. However, apart from the Gregory and Margaret, for which I am not surprised that there has been no reference here, you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, are also celebrating. You have an anniversary. And I must tell you that I never met a silenter anniversary in my parliamentary life.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u205	You're gonna tell us a lot of years, huh?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u206	Wishes will come to the end. You completely forgot! And you will allow me to tell you that because in the parties and in the factions, it is not by chance that you want to forget something. And something you want to forget, and above all something you want to forget both the electorate and the Greek society. It's obviously not something you're proud of or something you want to remind yourself of. All parties always celebrate the day of their first political victory. Always! And they do an account, explain to society, formulate a programme speech. You squeeze fish! Awesome, inconvenience! Even the Prime Minister forgot to say it. You have forgotten this one and important date for you in your communications, which we, of course, cannot forget. I do not want to remind you of the magical number that haunts you, the 100 billion that you have cost us, but of course, since we are talking about finance, we cannot remember the 43 billion missing from the deposits. We cannot remember the 30 billion less Greeks have as a total asset now that we are talking about. In other words, you have cost around EUR 7.5 000 in each Greek citizen's pocket, regardless of whether he is economically active or non-economically active, if he is a child, if he is an advocate. You got into that kid's pocket that's a year old and you dived 7.5 grand! Also, as we speak of the total cost and the rationalisation of costs, we cannot remember that you have raised the public debt by another 25 billion, rather than falling. We cannot forget that, in the context of the election of the public administration, today, the Prime Minister's office, as I am told, is immediately supervised by forty two bodies. These forty-two operators cost less than EUR 2.5 million wages. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see - you know - I will not tell you, I am not going to tell you, the measurements tell you, the society tells you, your friends, your friends, your relatives, the people who believed you at some point, and now they are cutting your hands, they are going down their luck and everything else you can imagine, because they voted for you at the time - you are not going to be long-term. You know very well that you can't tell you many years because there won't be much. It's gonna be minimal. And I honestly say to you decency prevents me from limiting in weeks the wish I wish to address you. In any case, as I always end up with an anniversary speech, including the budget speech, let me repeat the wish 'and time in your homes!'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the list of speakers. We're starting with Mr. Michelonnakis. Mr. Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative of the Democratic Independence will be followed. Mr. Micholiannakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. We are incorporating European Union directives into our national legislation today. The organised trading mechanism, structured deposit, structured financial products are defined. The conditions for the operation of public limited liability companies are redefined. It is now possible for the market manager to manage a multilateral trading mechanism or a structured trading mechanism. The authorisation content of public limited liability companies and the procedures for authorising and rejecting applications shall be specified. There are shareholder assessment procedures. The obligations of public limited liability companies are defined. We're setting principles of professional conduct. A third country firm wishing to provide Greece with investment services or to engage in investment activities is obliged to establish a branch in Greece. The positions limits and checks for the management of positions shall be laid down by the Commission. Transparency requirements are laid down: the authorisation of the Securities and Markets Committee to provide data reporting services, licence control and organisational requirements to be provided by the mechanisms, cooperation between the Bank of Greece and the Securities and Market Committee. These may impose sanctions on the offenders and these sanctions are redefined. The SNEs and GNIs operating framework shall be redefined and the Capital Market Commission and the Bank of Greece shall monitor the compliance of supervised entities. The SNE, i.e. real estate, is allowed to invest in real estate. They are also defined as: Exemption for the delivery and import of ships, other than fishing vessels and tourists, the method of calculating the annual traffic charges for private use of passenger vehicles from third countries and which are the suspension customs status of temporary importation, the prohibition on processing ethyl alcohol with other raw materials from vinegar production, as well as the mixing of alcohol vinegar with other categories of vinegar, the abolition of the committee to assess complaints against services and officials of the Ministry of Finance, regulation - setting up the Special Committee for the Evaluation of the Legal Staff of the State Council. What does all this mean? We are achieving, firstly, greater transparency, secondly, protection of investors and greater confidence, and thirdly, safeguarding the delegation of powers to supervisory bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr. Michelonnakis. The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u210	I would like to begin with the amendments, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, Madam Minister, the amendment by Giannis Koutsoukos concerns a specific subject, a disciplinary matter, as you said, and perhaps the Minister for the Interior should take the initiative in this regard - but the issue is close to you, your responsibility, which he referred to as an example and is the occasion. It's been three years since you've been in the government. I remember before you took the view that Mr Mitsotakis and I had generally come to the disciplinary board of civil servants on the occasion of the education, where I had taken initiatives, and we would have brought this matter to Parliament. There is dialogue with education bodies and with ADEDY. These are ready things that you could have gone through in this three-year period. My colleague's amendment is very correct, and I hope that in the next few weeks with other legislative initiatives you will finally bring such a regulation guaranteeing the presumption of innocence, just as his colleague has put it in his own amendment. But you are bringing other amendments today. You explained them, you analysed them. I would like to mention, ladies and gentlemen, in the traps of the amendments, as much as they are sometimes very positive some of their regulations, which also require opposition to support them. I will tell you a trap and congratulate two of my colleagues, Mr. Vassilis Christou and Mr. Babis Vardikos, who have identified a "theme". In an introductory word. Life can pull out introductorys and be a spectacle. I would also like to thank two ladies and gentlemen from our parliamentary group, Mrs Venice Belia and Mrs Maro Karakaliou, who have helped us first and foremost, Mr Constantopoulos to say'residents' and not to vote for our prolongation not to have any guilt, but also to you of the majority who, how can you know each time an amendment with a wording which does not give rise to problematic assembling what you are voting on? So listen, ladies and gentlemen, what we have just voted on with the logic of the amendments that come after the institutions, not before the bodies, so that they can be asked, but after the bodies. I read: "After the first paragraph..." etc. ‘new paragraph shall be added as follows: ‘approximation operations drawn up in accordance with its provisions of 17 July, etc. Legislative decree on the expropriations referred to in the preceding subparagraph shall be revoked on a case-by-case basis.’; Such self-determination operations shall be revoked.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u211	What law are you referring to?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u212	I am referring to No 4495/2017, which signs half the Ministerial Council and more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u213	Is that the recent, the third evaluation?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u214	It's Law 4495/2017. I cannot understand who has taken a legislative initiative. From his first provisions, I understand it's the Ministry of Infrastructure. Let me read to you, Mr. Comrade, the title. Maybe that's where one can conclude. It is not always certain, however. It is headed by Law 4495: 'Control and protection of the structured environment and other provisions'. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, the names of those who benefit from this arrangement, if they exist and who they are. I don't know. If I'd known, I'd have said it first. I repeat, if I knew, I wouldn't hesitate, I'd say it first. But I don't know. The government must therefore answer us who this regulation relates to Athens, apart from Athens, in the region of Athens, throughout the country. Who's this about? Is he one? Is it two? Are there more? We want the names of those concerned. So, with the amendments that come to the ratification of contracts on a legislative initiative such as this, which the Opposition can and support, from such amendments, which, I say, are tabled once again after the hearing of the bodies, we should perhaps also oppose a decision, suspiciously, not to vote. Why would this rapporteur know, who will be after the journalistic universe, telling him "Why did you vote?" what is behind words that are not necessarily suspected of being taken strange? However, the Democratic Reconciliation did not vote for this. Mr Constantopoulos, with the assistance of our parliamentary group, said 'no'. And the government can erase the issue, make it a real issue, as I described it, or with the names it will make public the subject of a very big political issue. I don't forget three years later - the loss of a new memory why should we? -25 of January of the Salvation Year 2018, three years after the day you won the elections. In anniversaries you can wish - this courtesy requires - long-term, if it is nominal or if it is events of the past to ask for the maintenance of memory. That's customary. But not when it comes to black anniversaries. Because when it comes to these anniversaries, you must ask the people, the public, the collection, the collection that protects against demagogy, the populism that they are supposed to support. Abyssa ignorance, amoralism of ambitions that have been aroused with lectures like the word delusion, they do not hide responsibility for what has happened over the past three years, that is, when the economy was turning to growth, as you admitted, and where you did everything back. Today in the news I heard from the report from Davos that the Greek Prime Minister advised his counterpart FYROM to tell his people the truth, as he did, that is, our Prime Minister, who told his people the truth. And you say: did she say before the January 2015 elections, a good time like today three years ago? Oh, he says, no, we changed later. Did he say it before the September 2015 elections to the equivalents, the parallel program, no matter what? Not even then. She told her when she said she couldn't imagine people cutting off the CSCE and crushed it? When did he tell the truth to advise other prime ministers in other countries to tell their people the truth? Never. And we can now discuss the skeptic, for FYROM's sake, its NATO membership, but beyond this serious issue, the agenda from 1-1-2018 for the country and the citizens has other issues. It has the tax increase in wages and pensions. Madam Minister of the Ministry of Finance, has increased up to 45% to 50% in the Value Added Tax. It has for us the free professionals, including the contributions we pay our taxable income, not their exception. He's got reservations for employees with proof of expense. It certainly has a further increase in contributions. He's got taxes on hotels. I remember - and I remember it well - a ministerial council in which I participated in bringing the relative burdens on hotels and medicines down to 6%. I remember it like now. To withdraw to your memory what you have voted and what from 1-1-2018 will apply to these cases. We have a reduction in the heating allowance. We've got the auctions. What do you say about technical texts that are not there for non-agreements? Isn't it a living reality about auctions and you're not in complete contradiction with your last night's self? Strada Dolorosa, painful road is your path, the road you have drawn, the path of testimony for the Greek people. And yesterday and today it is impossible for a parliamentary representative to come down from the Step, having criticised all these very serious issues in the government, since he is a representative of a opposition party, and not to say a more timely word about the issues involved in the negotiations on the final name of FYROM. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we had a very mild attitude on this matter, because yesterday morning we were here in plenary session for the meeting of the two Prime Ministers. That's how we did it. Of course, Mr. Katrugalos raised the tone. He was saved after. I think that the opposition really showed our party, in particular, the responsibility with which it deals with foreign policy. And we think that this two-month time-consuming issue has taken the most serious attitude, and we have avoided conflicts with other parties or with the government on a matter. Despite the anti-ethic function of the government and at diplomatic and political level, we have kept tons low. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, having a few things more in mind about foreign policy, they know that Robert Cecil and Chancellor Bismark were the last who successfully exercised foreign policy in a secret way, the so-called secret diplomacy. From there, decades, centuries, from the end of the 19th century to today, diplomacy, which is being done in terms of transparency, is the one that helps and has been chosen by most, if not all, in the western hemisphere of the planet. It is incomprehensible, however, and I am tabling it. We had the statements from the two Prime Ministers yesterday. We have seen the serious issues of being outside the statements and statements being made on other issues, secondly. The seriousness was outside. So there's a future in this story. And those who were raped to say that 'February beginnings we closed' were either naive or unreasonable on foreign policy issues or made a serious mistake, misinformed. There is a future for this story, we have not gone through the essentials and serious ones. However, party controversy holds well. With threats, in words of the air, with shadows that don't help. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen - and this is my last phrase - the controversy between the government partners is exacerbated. What do we call the Democratic Reconciliation and the River? We are talking about having the first official briefing, so that we can also speak of opinions on general issues. For the general and specific. For the package of the topics. There's no name issue. There's a set of topics about the language, about the nation, about a lot of them. Only anyone who has seen the Constitution knows what the set of issues is. We must therefore have the official approach on the part of the government and then place ourselves in the most responsible way. This is where the two government partners collide. It's not that they don't end up in the same position. They're confusing! Yesterday we had conflicts involving government and parliament officials. On the one hand, Mr. Skourletis and on the other hand Mr. Dimitris Kammenos. And today I listened with my ears to the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, calling his government partner a far-right issue. Are you going to drive us crazy? On the basis of the fact that anyone who says what he says about Macedonia is far-right and referring to MPs and officials of the New Democracy, asks whether what ANLL says is equal to a right-wing tone with the previous ones he said 'yes'. Are we going well? We're not doing well!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u215	It was a horrific mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u216	We do not go far enough if there is a consultation on foreign policy in this Chamber. As far as the rest of the matter is concerned, the draft law, which is abstract by Minister, from the amendments, from the point of view that is very serious, but also from the wider points of view of your economic policy, applies what Mr Koutsoukos has said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u217	We will give the floor to Mr Athanasios from New Democracy. Mr Karras will be followed by the Democratic Integration and then by Mr Megalomoustakas, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go into the whole bill because it has fully developed our party's positions on the bill, our rapporteur, Mr Fortsakis. I shall refer specifically to Article 111 of the draft law, which concerns the islands and the shipping to them. It is something that concerns the whole island of Greece today. The purpose of this Article is to harmonise national VAT legislation with the corresponding provision of Council Directive 2006/112. What, then, is it regulated by this provision? The imposition of VAT on services relating to inland waterway shipping activities. However, the possibility was that, like any other Member State of the European Union, it would be possible to apply for exemption for VAT on these services. In other words, those relating to inland waterway shipping. And since, of course, each country has developed or even raised its own peculiarities and Greece was the country that has these peculiarities, because of the island policy and one island is very close to the other. However, this is not the case with our country, as other Member States have done. I am referring to Portugal and France. Greece is now obliged to comply with the directive and impose VAT on services relating to maritime activities within territorial waters. Let us now see what this directive provides for. I am referring to the 112/2006 Council. It stipulates that the VAT exemption now only applies to ships used in offshore shipping and not to commercial shipping, as was the case so far and we of course had no problem with it. You see, the whole philosophy and the structure of politics are changing. Exemption from VAT by the introduction of Article 111 of the draft law, which replaces Article 27(a)(1) of Law 2859/2000, i.e. the VAT Code, requires other conditions referred to in the Act, namely cumulative, that is to say, a maximum length of the hull of 12 or equal to 12 metres. I wonder why it must be 12 metres. Where does it come from? I have analysed the whole directive and found no limitation on the length of hull. Where does it come from? We have put this in committee as well, and we have not taken it to this day. Now imagine what will happen with all the shipowners who have ordered ships under twelve metres, what a burden they will bear when the ships they have ordered are under twelve metres. It's a big problem. The other condition is specific to the route. Of course the third and most important one, which will concern us, is the conduct of offshore activities, of course now, in accordance with Article 148 of the directive. The concept of maritime transport, which is given to offshore seas, is maritime shipping outside territorial waters, so the exemption from VAT relates to seagoing vessels, namely those of which most in maritime miles, that is, the distance they travel, most of the boat, takes place outside the territorial waters of the approaching States. Asked now: What level of VAT will be imposed? If we cannot make a broad interpretation - and I say this more about the lawyers, I think we can do so - of the provision in Article 148 of the directive - and the Chamber of Navy here also claimed - that the VAT exemption should be investigated when sea transport is the exclusive or most appropriate economic or social way of transporting goods and passengers and as a ship used for offshore navigation to mean any ship used for navigation. If we cannot make this broad interpretation - which, as I have said, we can - then a zero or minimum VAT rate should be set. Will anyone be asking this question? Do we have a legal basis? Yes, we have a legal claim. I would like to mention here a criticism we have previously received, that many times, Mr Carras, we are 'wrapping' things up by the lawyers. If, however, the provisions as we have said were analysed and introduced, our legislation would have been more plausible than the law-enforcementers and the world would not have been inconvenienced and the courts would have been reduced. In any case, yes, there is a legal basis and this arises from the second subparagraph of sub-paragraph II of Article 111 of the draft law. What does this arrangement say? ‘The decision of the Minister of Finance defines the terms and conditions and any other details for the application of the provisions of Subsection II.’ So, by ministerial decision, this VAT can be fixed at a low level, although I think there is a constitutional problem here, because I have the impression that the constitutional limits of the legislative authorisation are being violated, because it is very broadly authorized, but in any case, let it be taken into account that it can be regulated by a ministerial decision. If it is necessary, much more today that the reduced rate of VAT has been abolished and the reduced rate of VAT on our islands is required for our islands, because the reduced rate has been abolished. You realise what a heavy burden consumers in the island regions of our country, who already bear 23% VAT will bear. The reduced rate has been abolished for all the small islands and for the five large islands, Mr President, as you know, it starts from 1-1-2019 and will be in all the islands in general. There will also be a great problem for our fishing with their vessels.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u219	Excluding fishing and sponge fishing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u220	I didn't know. I'll see it and, if the fishing is excluded, I can make it up to you if it is. Did you bring it in an amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u221	No, he's in the article.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u222	But the interpretation, if you see in the annex that has back, you will see that it is included. In any case, I think you can commit yourself today, Minister, and the VAT is zero, because you do not have the whole grid of the provisions of the directive. I'm not talking about the law that's being transferred. In the directive you do not have such a problem or in any case put a symbolic VAT of 0.001%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u223	Mr Karras has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u224	Mr President, with the Bureau's permission and the tolerance of colleagues, because it is my first speech in plenary following the announcement of my cooperation with the Democratic Alliance, I consider it my duty to place myself here and comment on a number of topical developments concerning my face and that is why I will give very briefly. The impression has been that anyone who leaves the party with whom he is elected and then cooperates with another party will be either a seat-holder or a renegade. This, at least, is an insult to democracy, as, at least, the situation has been attempting to appear in my face in the last ten days. I am therefore obliged to stand before you and say this: who is a renegade? Apostate, in fact, if we go back to 1965 and to similar examples, it is the one who goes away that tears down a government that has received the declared one. Because that is where the will of the people who have declared themselves to a ruling party is now being violated. However, at the time when a small party leaves and political balance is not disturbed, political stability is not at stake, it is not a apostate, whether they want to write it or not. And why isn't he a renegade? Because it does not change the political status. He has the right to disagree. The Member has the right to express his opinion, but, if he really wants to be useful to the people, to serve the oath he has given, ladies and gentlemen, he must speak and be heard and remain silent and not hide. That's what I did. That is what I have done, and I am bold enough to say that I have not been afraid of anyone, I have not been disturbed by any criticisms, which I accept, whatever it may be, but I am given the right to reply. And you want me to tell you what the answer, the progressive one, is in this particular case? I will go back to 1965 and say this: then a government elected was dropped, the declared one was questioned. They were therefore called democracy apostates. However, those who, during the parliamentary term, do not change the political balance are departing, who do not insult democracy, who do not affect democracy, where appropriate, affect the one with whom they cooperated. But if, on the way, we have a change of political positions, we have ambiguities about the identity of the party with which they were elected, they have a duty, ladies and gentlemen, to state it, to place them. They have no right to remain silent. They have no right to hide. And that's what I did. That is why I decided, as a result of centralized payments, to work with the Democratic Integration and then work with the Change Movement, contributing to its ideology. I will remind you of this and I will end. In 1965, when the conditions of apostasy were particularly critical for the country, the Communist Party was politically placed. In conclusion, I would appeal to the Central Committee of the Communist Party's political office in February 1965, as I said, 'He is the apostate of democracy', as I said, 'He is the one throwing a government with the declared. Is he apostasy, however, the one who disagrees with his party and leaves even if he is part of another party?' With the political wisdom of the time, the Communist Party said 'no' and considered it justified. That is not my word, ladies and gentlemen, it is the Communist Party. It is in the book recently published by the journalist Apostle Diamantis and includes all the themes and history of apostasy. I'm putting this down for the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Georgios Dimitrios Karras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I think, Mr President, that I should not waste any more time. I think you've given me the opportunity to put me on the right track. From there on, I am in the criticism of anyone, but in the good criticism, not malicious criticism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u225	The Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Megalomustakas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will follow today's speech and try to be brief and concise. I will not repeat what is contained in the provisions of this bill. I will only briefly refer to some of them, so that my word can continue. This draft law of the Ministry of Finance therefore consists of five parts. The first part consists of Articles 1 to 86 and is divided into six titles, incorporating the European Directive on MIFID II into Greek law. The European Parliament and the Council are coming here to give us their legislation, in order to include it in the debates on financial instruments. The second part of this bill deals with issues relating to the licensing and operation of public limited liability companies, the SNEs, as well as issues relating to the operation of public limited liability companies. These arrangements, according to the explanatory statement, constitute national regulations and necessary for the proper functioning of the market companies. Let us take this into account for the criticism we are going to make. Part Three defines the Securities and Exchange Commission of Greece as competent authorities to supervise compliance with the provisions of the Regulation of the European Union 2015/2365. This regulation therefore regulates issues, transparency of transactions, financing of securities and reuse of securities. The third part also lays down administrative penalties and measures in the event of an infringement of the provisions mentioned above. The fourth part gives us the opportunity to know about anonymous real estate investment companies, which are now investing in long-term leases, at least 20 years of age, while commercial and industrial property leases are also regulated. The fifth and last part of this draft law regulates a number of issues of responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and amends specific provisions of the Customs Code, extends the validity of transitional provisions of the Code of Tax Procedure and of the Code of Conduct for Public Revenue. It also recasts a provision of the VAT Code to be harmonised with a corresponding VAT directive and contains other provisions. What is bothering us in this bill, and that is why we will not vote for it, is that it is drafted by a European legislation which, however, has not been adapted to Greek data. We, as a Union of Centres, are in favour of strengthening the transparency of financial markets and we are also in favour of strengthening regulatory rules on the financial instruments market. However, those markets should provide the opportunity to act on healthy investment forces, while always respecting existing rules. Basic care should, in fact, be the best possible protection for investors and an increase in the sense of trust in a system that is effectively and rationally supervised. As you all know, the Centro Association is a natural European party, it supports these legislative initiatives which are incorporated into Greek legislation, much more on the issue that we are debating today, because of the way this sector operates and its cross-border nature, there must be European coordination. However, we cannot accept the fact that you have ignored the size of the national financial market. And in my previous speech on the energy market, I made reports that we see small investors, small and medium-sized investors, such as Greek companies of this kind, affected by your policy. Our main concern and of course your own law and rule should be the possibility of evaluating the impact of these new MIFID II provisions on Greek financial capacity. You should have examined - and that is what we want - with a realism of what impact MIFID will have on small and medium-sized enterprises, which are, as I said before, the Greek entrepreneurship in this sector. You should, indeed, have a thorough and exhaustive dialogue so that they can cope with the competition that is being created. In all of this, you should also bear in mind the operating costs, which are greatly increased by this draft law. In fact, the burdens themselves, which are more easily dealt with by large companies than the small and medium-sized enterprises currently in existence in Greece, and this overloading of responsibilities may lead them to close down or even to other unpleasant situations, where some may still stay on the road and lose their bread at a time so critical for Greece. We are not entitled to make such mistakes, we must very carefully examine any legislation that we bring to the vote in the Greek Parliament. You must also bear in mind that such provisions and directives have not been incorporated by competing states such as America and other markets. So how are we asking for a small regime in this area like the Greek one, to go into conflict or to be competitive with such colossals, such as those based on other continents and other markets, and to be equal and worthy? There's no care, there's no provision. We have the impression that there was absolutely no real consultation with the operators in this sector. We cannot therefore vote in favour of such a bill. You must always bear in mind that you are not in the government of the country because you must only serve the great investment, because that is what you have shown us to date. You're here to serve the people, and that's what you have to do. The interest of the Greek people, unfortunately, is not supported by this legislation and we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr. Megalustakas. Mrs Rapti has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what are the main points of the draft law we are about to discuss? It is the incorporation of Directive 2014/65 of the European Union, the known MIFID II, which is coming to replace MIFID I. And this is the result of the changes that have taken place in recent years in the financial markets, which we have had an increase in the number of investors, the emergence of new trading markets and the creation of new financial and OTC instruments. All of this created the need for a strong control framework, which will at the same time include stable conditions for the smooth operation of markets. Unfortunately, we are among the last European countries that have not yet incorporated the directive, which is very important for our country's financial sector. Consider that it should be in force by 3 January 2018, and we are now discussing it. I say this on the one hand because, after its vote, implementing decisions will be needed by the Securities Committee and therefore further delays, but also because it will take time to adjust market factors to the new data. And, of course, it means damage to the country and to domestic investment companies, it means delaying the authorisation of the Athens Exchange by the European Union, it means steps of importance for the Greek Stock Exchange, which we all know is a crucial lever for the development of the Greek economy. The new directive also protects investors active in the Greek market and this means a safer environment for the presence of foreign investors. It improves, inter alia, the operating framework of investment services, investment managers and investment advisers and certainly strengthens pre-trade and post-trade transparency obligations, which are necessary for the smooth functioning of each market. In particular, the new Directive promotes significant changes in IT systems, risk control and management mechanisms and staff training. The banks are now invited to adapt to a much more demanding operating framework by reassessing the financial instruments they offer, the investment services they have to their customers, their trading relationship with investors and the computer systems they use for the process. The new directive strengthens the powers of supervisory authorities and now differentiates many financial procedures, such as the concept of the new multilateral trading venue, transparency in transactions beyond shares and other products, such as bonds and derivatives, limitation to over-the-counter transactions, increasing organisational requirements for investment services companies and creating a market for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. With the new framework, the structures of financial markets become more effective and stable. Computer systems are being modernised, with the aim of increasing trading speed and protection against systemic risks, and transactions are gaining greater transparency. Of course, the new directive is very likely to lead to a concentration of the market, including the small size and the problems of domestic stock exchange companies, while the new framework is expected to create additional obligations for investment services in order to meet the requirements of the new law. Ladies and gentlemen, the incorporation of the directive is our country's obligation. And it is obvious that it is a step in the right direction, even though the government has delayed its incorporation into national law. We cannot talk about developing and modern investment environments and continue to have an incomplete framework for the operation and supervision of the financial market. The Greek Exchange must acquire the necessary armour and operate as part of a large international market. This will only happen if it is imposed on the validity and safety of the new provisions. It is clear that, despite the consequences of incorporating the directive, bureaucracy, a reduction in competitiveness, and so on, the directive provides the minimum quality criteria necessary for the compliance and the equal presence of our country in the international money market club. Finally, we look positively at the provision of the draft law on exemption from the end of registration of disabled, laundry and others. Perhaps it is the only good news we have heard, ladies and gentlemen, lately at legislative level. Baraz legislative initiatives by the Government, with the reduction of their social benefits and the culmination of the recent multi-brand plan but also of PPC's luxurious invoice, for which I also tabled a question. Any measure that helps the multitude and sensitive categories of citizens is certainly positive. To provide incentives, however, to take a car and five days before cutting off social benefits, do not have the illusion that it is a social policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u229	The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Panayotaros, has the floor. Mr Amyras, a Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, will then be followed by a speaker and we will close with the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative the circle of speakers and interventions of parliamentary representatives. We will have the secondaryities of those of the rapporteurs or of special speakers who wish, of course, the Minister, if she wishes, at any time, to intervene. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. The burning issue of our days and it seems that it will also be the burning issue of the next few months, and we hope with a happy ending, will be the so-called 'popular issue'. It is the problem of the name of the neighbouring 'country', of this form which is the result, the abstraction of pan-Slavic expansionism, nationalism - say as you wish - of the idea of Great Bulgaria and all those who wanted to serve interests that were created at the end of the 19th century. Epic battles had taken place in the region in the early 20th century, two Balkan Wars were followed, then the Second World War, which was then played by the Communists of Bulgaria and unfortunately various Greeks the genus, who always supported the creation of "independent Macedonia". Let us not forget the various fullhearted decisions made by the Communist Party of Greece at that time and created internal issues among them. But it is not what many use and it is the reality. The big problem was created at the end of World War II, where Tito's Yugoslavia created out of nowhere, took the part of southern Serbia, Vardarska Banovina, as it was then called, and called it "Macedonia", one of the democracies that made up the then Yugoslavia. World War II winners, the winners of civil war or gang war, for others, for us, did nothing when they saw Tito say southern Serbia "Macedonia". And when we went to whisper something in 1951, in 1952, our allies at the time of NATO, those who saw that Yugoslavia, Tito was in hostile condition with Stalin, so we shouldn't bite him, forced us to silence, do nothing about this big issue. And then the so-called 'right' governments ruled. They didn't rule left-wing governments. That does not mean that we want to justify in any way what the Left says and yet in our country. The years passed. Macedonians' generations grew by lying in their books and everywhere that they were "Macedonians". And we arrived at some point in 1987, if I'm not mistaken, when we took a first cold shower as Greeks, when the then President of the Republic, Mr. Sarzetakis, went to Australia and the so-called "Macedonians" tossed him yoghurts and eggs and called him various altrotic games of their own. Let us not forget that - and now they see the light of publicity as one - a number of documents - and Constantine Karamanlis in 1953 in FEK of the then government - there is and was tabled by our Parliamentary spokesman Mr Papa - he had recognised that there is "democracy of Macedonia". And in 1977 the United Nations had recognized, in a treacherous manner, the existence of this form, because unfortunately our reflexes were not very good at times. And when the Greek people in 1990 realized that one more betrayal is coming, they rose up, they came out on the streets. And while everything showed that it would in no way allow the use of the term "Macedonia" from the neighbouring country, again ludicrously a right-wing government of Mr.Mitsotakis at the time - New Democracy ruled and let them be found in the New Democracy, whether it was Mr.Mitsotakis or Mr. Samaras or both, who betrayed the name - brought it as magically, sky-bathed, the interim solution of FYROM, which includes the term "Macedonia". There are many other betrayals. Many people read, many hear, many come out in the light of publicity, such as business relationships between Greek politicians, who wanted in this format to do business and to help them not to get a tension. We've seen a lot of other things. The fact that hundreds of countries have recognized Skopje as "Macedonia", does not mean that we as Greece, as Greeks, should in no way accept these tragic mistakes of the past, the murders of others and the flaws of Greek politicians. We'll have to fight until the last minute. Never accept, in any case, the term "Macedonia" or its derivatives, either geographically or on another criterion. Skopje is a state that dissolves, has an expiration date. We've said it and we'll keep telling you. That's what all the top analysts say. Because it is quite simply a very small state, the population of which is about 50% Albanians, who in no way care what happens, what happens to this case. All they want is to be attached to the upcoming "Great Albania". We hear a number of excuses. We heard about this grand rally, which took place a few days ago in Thessaloniki, which many are going to downgrade, they are going to smash it. The essence, however, is that it has been the biggest gathering ever in Greece over the past twenty years and possibly only overcome by the upcoming rally that will take place in Athens over the next few days. We are constantly seeing - and here we would like to focus on a little - the role of Officerial Opposition, the role of patriots - in or out of introductory terms, put it on your right-wing or off-importation. This attitude began in 1992-93, which basically accepted as a government the term 'Macedonia', since it is within the word FYROM. They accepted the term 'former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia'. The fact is, so many years, they haven't done anything to change the data. And in 2008 in Bucharest - which presents it as a huge success - the New Democracy then proposed a complex name for all uses, which will include the term "Macedonia". So what patriotic part, what patriotic duty are you talking about, gentlemen of the Opposition? And then the deal went astray, because the Skopje had absolutely no intention of changing either their Constitution or their school books or anything at all. This is all about "alutism" within many introductorys, the false "alutism" of Skopje, former Bulgarians. And you present it as a success. And we now come to a point where we wish - unfortunately the overwhelming majority of Greek politicians, other than Golden Dawn, accept in one way or another the term 'Macedonia', whether as a derivative or as a complex name or as something - and to rely on the Skopje intransigence - that is to be done - which, of course, are not going to change anything at all. The promise he made at this great and terrible meeting, which took place yesterday in Davos, Greek Prime Minister Tsipras from the moderate - here we laugh at him - Mr Zaev, that they will change the name of the airport of Skopje, which is also their obligation from the interim agreement, or some routes in Skopje and elsewhere and possibly the national road, which also "Mesh Alexander" is said for those who know, of course it is like the beads that the colonists gave to the natives of America when they went there. What about the entire establishment of the city of Skopje and elsewhere, which is erected, built and orbited on this algotism? What about school books, which, like all the neighbouring countries of Greece, speak of their pervertism - and well they do from their side - other than Greece, where we have deleted them all on the substance? What about the Skopje constitution? Because Mr Zaev yesterday said "we can't do this, we're going to change the way to some part of Skopje", and something's going on in Roma, so we can be and we're also supposed to be cultural correct, as you say. You didn't get anything at all. You wouldn't get anything at all. All you care about is - and that's the strange thing, how all politicians stick to it, and the Government and Civic Opposition and others - that there must be a complex name. The Greek people, who elect you, although usually on the day of the election, suffers amnesia or something, and burdens their vote with very wrong criteria in general, said to you with this grand rally: "No, no use of the term “Macedonia” by our neighbours, do not allow this." And he'll tell you again in a few days, and he'll always tell you. And we also see the hypocrisy of the New Democracy, which has not yet told its official position. He said, “Okay, let anyone who wants to go, let the North Elders go to the rally of Thessaloniki, so they can go,” to mock the world there for a while, their voters that “we are against the term “Macedonia””. He also gave the free one here to go whoever wants. But the first-class members of the New Democracy come back to order all those who want to believe otherwise. We have heard Mrs Bakoyannis, who is mocking the rally. We have heard Mr. Dendia, we have heard many others who clearly or secretly say what is the official line of the Anti-Population Officer's party. We really would like to see the rally of Athens be most of the MPs and go there with their souls, go out and bruise about the Greekness of the one and only Macedonia that is present and not the galantzis that you want to bring us. Because when - we hope that this will never happen - you are doing these things that you are preparing, these reducing efforts, not to say anything worse - we expect to see this secret diplomacy of the plate, which only leads our country over time - you will understand that, even if this motif of Skopje is dissolved, you will have done a huge damage, you will have thrown water not just on the mill of pan-Slavism and pan-Bulgarianism, but you will have opened the Aeolus ambience on many other issues to the detriment of our country. We have also heard this incredible statement from the President of the Republic of Cyprus, Mr Anastasiades, that it is no matter whether it is also called "North Greece" or "North Macedonia" or something else, as if it were to say that the occupied part of Cyprus is inconsistent with us and if it is called "North Cyprus". Because somewhere in them they want and would want this pseudo-solution, which will be given, if ever, to the issue of the name of Skopje, to be a brake on the Cyprus issue, to be a wheel brake on other national issues, always on the basis of not the interests of the country and of Hellenism, but the interest of all the rest of them and those who - because they too - have done or want to do or want to do even better business with Skopje and do not give them a nail on our national issues. I say again, ending up: Let's hope - where we're here! - that Skopje's intransigence will cancel all these unwilling actions that are unfortunately carried out by the Greek Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u231	The Parliamentary Representative from Potami Mr Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I would say that it is a happy time that we are here today discussing a bill on the competence of the Ministry of Finance, of course, with the Minister of State present, in order to inform you and not from the outside what decisions you have taken in Brussels and what debates are taking on the next day in Greece. Unfortunately, all of us in economic matters are the interviews of foreign officials, not the most importantly responsible information that the government has to make to Parliament and the Members of Parliament on these crucial issues. I hope, at least, that you will not have to inform first of all the leadership of the Church, first of all the Archbishop, of how the negotiations are taking place in the Eurogroup, so that you can come back and let us know. Reading the official texts notified at the last meeting of the Eurozone Finance Ministers, a lot of questions have been raised about what you have finally agreed in Brussels and what commitments you have made. Let's go see an example. Auctions. In the official compliance text issued by the Commission, it is explicitly stated that 10 thousand auctions will be made this year and forty thousand auctions per year during the three years 2019-2022. When these texts were published, you rushed as a government to deny them. But do you know what it is? That from the Step of the House, about a month ago, Nikos Philis had spoken of forty thousand auctions this year, which should be seen and prevented.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u233	Were you in the committee?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u234	I was on the board. Yesterday it was also known from a reply from Mario Draghi, the European central banker to the MEP, Ms Hounti, that Greece would have to make greater efforts to cover the country's full geographical coverage as regards the auctions and changes in the Katseli law. So, by collecting all this information, we would like you to tell us again, I will say, what is going on with the auctions. Will it be forty thousand a year, as the Commission says, and had Nikos Friends predicted a month ago? How many strategic poor payers are there? Is it possible for the Minister of Finance to deny the texts of the Eurogroup compliance report?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u235	You're not reading right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u236	But he took part there, talked about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u237	You don't read the announcements properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u238	Something you haven't read right!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u239	With regard to changes in the law of Katseli, I would like to ask: What changes are you going to make to the law of Katseli? Secondly, after the auctions. The red loans of the soldiers. It is close to the issue of auctions because it is linked to the stability of the banking system. So we have heard Mr Kammenos, the Minister of Defence, announcing that the government will buy the military loans from the systemic banks at the price that these banks would sell to the collecting companies. I ask, is this the design, these announcements were made in collaboration with you, the Ministry of Finance? In addition, if this happens with the loans of the military, the same model will apply to the loans and other civil servants as well as to the private employees, will I say? Let's see who's selling "fake news" and who's not, see who's selling hopes, who's not reading the texts, and who's keeping the flag of populism high! Don't make faces, Mr. Manda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u240	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u241	I'll be waiting to hear you, to hear what you're going to say about it. One subject on which there is complete confusion is the duty-free limit. I hope, Mr Mada, in your speech, after me, that you include the subject of tax. The Ministry of Finance had denied reports that there are pressures from the IMF to apply the tax reduction to 5,600 euros from 2019 rather than 2020. In the updated memorandum you signed on the closure of the third evaluation, there is a reference, Mr Manda, to the fact that, in May 2018, the institutions will decide, depending on the level of the primary surplus in Greece, whether the further fall of duty will take place in ten-11 months from now, that is, on incomes from 1-1-2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u242	Why, didn't we know they'd decide in the future?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u243	He needs a clear answer. Please pass on to Mr Chakaloto that he does not have to say again that he will resign for the second time if the tax falls. We don't have to, because we know she won't. You're laughing, huh? You personally went out on the TVs by election, I'd seen you, Mr. Manda - now you're going to pay for the facets you've made! - and I saw you at the ERT say you didn't drop the tax free under 9,500 euros, and now you're taking it to 5,600 euros. Go out on TV tomorrow and humiliate the civilians. Suck those who get 500 euros a month, Mr. Manda, and thanks to your government in ten months from now, their tax will be taken from the fall of a month's tax-free bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u244	What's wrong with you now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u245	I don't like it when they make faces and get ugly. Understood? That's why I told you I'd include you. But I'll include you with evidence. So tell me about the taxfree, you were crying and saying it's not falling and it's treason if it falls under 9,600 euros. Where have you reached it? And where are you going to take it? There to humiliate those who get 500 euros a month and you will get them a monthly year, because you are an incompetent government, a government of lies. You based your political career on lies. And the faces, not me!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u246	I never make faces. I don't like making faces!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u247	We're on. Clear exit from the memoirs. The Vice-President, Mr Drasakis, spoke of the need for a EUR 19 billion pigeon. So I'm asking you, where will this pigeon be found? Secondly, why do you reject the preventive credit line that Portugal had used in the past when it was at the same stage? Debt relief. Do you remember what you were saying, Mr. Manda, about public debt? You'll pay your faces now! Do you remember what you said yourself, Mr. Mandas? You have to take the floor on staff to answer me, because I have everything here. Do you remember what you were saying about the debt? That they were deceptive and that we had to erase it. Nowadays, the debt has been widened, don't you know? You know that, but you don't talk. The Commission's basic scenario therefore provides that the public debt for 2017 will be formed at 181% of GDP. Well, you made it there too, I mean. The debt is widened, it grows, that you would erase. So yesterday in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, when a fellow SYRIZA Member, remembering what his phony-revolutionary vocabulary was, he said: 'Mr. President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, re-establish the subcommittee on the examination of public debt'. Do you remember that subcommittee, coming with sandals and white socks, foreign experts are supposed to tell us that they are detestable, shameful and everything else? That's when you were applauding, Mr. Manda. I therefore proposed to the Subcommittee on Public Debt, which the Government said would probably reconstitute, as the first speaker, to bring Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou. Together you were saying that a year and a half ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u248	Well, "The Little House in Livadi".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u249	So I keep going. Debt has been widened because GDP is falling. It was a small growth in 2017 and there was a recession in 2015 and 2016. Achievements! The closer we get to August 2018, the more we will learn what new measures will take since September 2018. And you're telling us we're getting out of the memoirs? Are you kidding us? Haven't you agreed on the high surpluses by 2060? Haven't you mortgaged the public property by 2115? Don't you take the tax free? From 1-1-2019, in less than a year, won't all pensions be reduced to 18%, by your own decision, because of the Katrugalo Law? Where's your faces? You know, make fun of joy, but you do it when you vote for these measures. And you tell us we'll get out of the memoirs. Amy, we're not going out! I wish we could go out! The lenders will come out of the memorials. The lenders, who are exempted from their obligation to lend us at 1% interest rate. The measures, however, remain until 2115. Congratulations! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please forgive me for the intensity of the voice, but I cannot see any colleagues underneath that they do not respect and go through all of them by means of procedures 'vote, wipe and finish'. Cut tax-free, cut pensions, dismantle the Greek economy! We still have capital control and you're telling me about regularity and exiting the memos? On the bill, I have a question for an amendment, Minister, on the end of the stay. The amendment has a general number of 1447 and a specific number of 233. As you know, this is another achievement of this government. Tourism goes well on its own as a train. Well, why let him run like this like "The Little House in Livadi," you said before? My dear colleague, with your vote, you put in every residence from January 1st from half to four more euros. That's your accomplishment, Mr. Comrade. There are the green fields! Please tell us, Minister, if this amendment extending the fee and the residence tax include, if I understand it, the Airbnb rooms. What exactly is it? I want a clarification on this, because a few months ago you voted for this tax. If you wish, please explain the amendment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, Mr President, thank you for the tolerance - Mr Dannellis told you how to vote on the bill. We shall be voting in favour. He's got positive provisions. It's a Community, European directive. I look forward to the answers to these specific questions, which I have raised with Mr Manda. And I repeat, not to me when I speak. I'm talking with evidence! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u250	Mr Mardas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. We can answer you with information on what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u252	Amen!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u253	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I come to the amendment which refers to the Kodra camp and its use. According to this amendment, the camp will be exploited by the Municipality of Kalamaria. This amendment puts an end to the well-known policy of previous governments, transfers and postponements. This camp did not suddenly come out in 2015. Since 1996 he has been waiting for its exploitation, which finally came. I would like to point out in this context that there has also been a job in Thessaloniki. There is a Think Tank called "Intervention", where five engineers and architects have submitted a report quite detailed, both in the Municipality of Kalamaria and in the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace. The report and all of this was submitted in 2014 and provided for the use of this camp. The report is detailed with drawings, with photographs, with studies, with opinions and can constitute the beginning of the exploitation and exploitation of this particular camp, which, I repeat, has been waiting to be exploited since 1996. I come to express a few views on this bill. As you all know, there has been a tendency for a long time to stop the flow of black money internationally, and much more at European level. We have some initial 2002 and 2004 directives, which are trying to put order on the financial markets and, more generally, on the financial instruments markets, as these instruments, as we know, are the channel for the use of black money or money that is evading. At European level, very serious efforts are being made. This directive, which is incorporated into Greek legislation, aims to achieve a class on this subject. Of course, it is worth noting that these efforts at European level have also been developing at international level for some time now. For this purpose, two organisations have been set up, the Financial Action Task Force, which deals with money laundering and money used for terrorism, and the OECD Global Forum which deals with tax evasion. These agencies, in addition to their interest in European states, are interested in and involved in the control and supervision of the black money and money that they escape - they are two different things - in some other countries that are considered tax havens and are outside the European Union, such as the Cayman Islands. They have some standards that these tax havens have to follow since 2009 and then there is a supervision of these tax havens. We have, for example, a first report on the Cayman Islands which is on 4-3-2009 and in the context of these reports they seek to see the adjustment of the entire financial system of tax havens to the standards they give. Of course, as I pointed out before, we have two different things. One is the black money that escapes and another part is money which is justified by invoices, documents and anything, which is also tax-free. Therefore, we have two elements to check on the agencies concerned and, as I have said, since 2009, we are seeking to achieve a class that was not achieved in the year, but from 2009 onwards, and before there is a black hole, we can say, as it is very difficult to control all of these funds that have been moved towards tax havens, so that we can see what is happening. In any case, we believe that all this effort, which is developed at European and international level, will bear fruit and have to bear fruit, as if banks or financial institutions outside the European Union are left outside these controls, understands anyone who understands that banks or any financial institutions or any organisations engaged in sales of different shares, bonds, etc., are in an unfavourable situation within the European Union. I would also like to stress the international dimension of the problem, which is of particular interest to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u254	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Mandas, has the floor, which concludes the circle of interventions by parliamentary representatives and speakers from the list. We'll move on to the second lists of rapporteurs and speakers. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u255	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end with one thing which I do not think can be a matter of misunderstanding or misinterpretation. Because George Amyras too, but other colleagues know me, I never get used to grumbling. And if this was taken as such, obviously I'm also asking George Amyuras for forgiveness.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u256	You don't have to. Not even. We've clarified it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u257	I am trying, as far as I am concerned, to deal with all my fellow Members with arguments. It's human sometimes and I think we can all fall into such a situation. Some arguments that we hear repeatedly in this Chamber have been answered in one way or another. The answers may not be satisfied. All this can cause a situation where I may - and I accept this - I may insult you. In any case, you know very well that it was not, nor is it, my intention and you know my attitude to the parliamentary procedure in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u258	That's why I'm surprised!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u259	So we solve this so that we can go to the essentials. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a common place from much of Parliament's political forces regarding the ratification of the directive. I also think that as far as possible the incorporation of this directive can help, following the major crisis in 2008, to do some lessons from this crisis at a pan-European level and in our country and are in a positive direction. However, we must not forget that the 2018 crisis, which changed very deeply, was not something that came from heaven, was not a natural phenomenon. Like other crises, which will come as long as we live in this system or have been in the past, they are crises at their core - if you want - the basic elements of the contradictions - to say it mildly - of the same system, the capitalist system. Let's not forget that. And at least we do not forget it, even though we often have a criticism of the fact that we have forgotten - it has distorted all our perceptions on these issues and that we are now the best servants of the system. And I close this only by saying this: apart from the incorporation of the directive, which obviously contains things that regulate in a more positive direction the existing situation, and the other provisions - I think that is most of them, and that was also a common place - are moving in a positive direction. I would like to remind you again in this Chamber, because I think it is important for Greek citizens and Greek women to know this, the article which refers to the possibility of adjusting certain debts electronically and before they become due. This provision is very crucial. It is important not only for those who have entered the regulation of the 100 doses, but also for the citizens, for the Greeks and Greeks, who will find themselves in front of this possibility, so that they can take their measures before the dues become overdue. It's a very important arrangement. There's more of them. I think we will keep them, and I think that there has also been an attitude on the part of the Ministry, in particular, I would say to the logical amendments that have been made by colleagues in anti-Population, that there should be a procedure to keep them to the extent that this is done and that it does not overturn more general things. I am also talking about the workers at the Ministry of Finance and the wage differences, and about other matters, which have been clearly stated by the Minister, that there is the mood and will to see them and to correct them to the extent - I say again - that they do not overthrow the general framework, etc. Let me now refer to two very critical, very important issues, which I think are topical, since I say first of all that those who prepared left-wing parentheses each year count additional years that this SYRIZA and ANEL government, the left as a majority, have at this very difficult time the responsibility of governance for our country. And despite the great difficulties we have encountered, despite the omissions - if you want - and the mistakes we have made, one we have not abandoned: a constant attempt to get out of the crisis, keeping the society upright. And in January 2015, when we first found ourselves in governance, in the first half of the year we made a very difficult effort, an effort that was recognised and I believe it will be historically recognised by the history of the future, but also by the peoples of all Europe and the whole world. It will be recognised that this small country has tried - if you would like - with great difficulty to attempt to challenge the austerity of this strict framework that existed, in order to reach a difficult compromise, in a painful compromise in the summer of 2015 and to bring it, as the only government in the history of this country, before the crisis of the Greek people. You forget that, you always forget it. And the Greek people gave us this mandate, which we will reach the end, so that we can actually get the country out of the crisis with society upright. And as the memories are recent, I would particularly say to the Parliamentary Representatives of the New Democracy and Democratic Independence - because some things have been heard - that they are less devastating when they refer to the course of the SYRIZA, because some have short memory in this Chamber. Some have forgotten who are the main responsible, what policies have the main responsibility for the fact that the country has reached this point, that it has lost its productive power on this path, its wealth, that unemployment has spread to 27%, that the country has been structurally destroyed, that it has suffered the greatest disaster as if it were war within a period of peace. These are very easy to forget. But I think that our people recognize an honest, cruel, contradictory effort that we are making, and I believe that at the end of the day, when we are judged by the Greek people, we will indeed be able to defend this course. And to be a little more specific in relation to the third evaluation, some have hurt them too much that the third evaluation was closed. Some forces, some interests, would never want this government, the left-wing government - and I speak on behalf of SYRIZA - to have the slightest success, because this puts the seal on future developments. It goes away - if you want - and it ends and incorporates dreams for left-hand parentheses, because I believe in SYRIZA that will be the end of the day. And I say this, trying to respond to some of the issues raised for the third evaluation and for our progress from now on. I will also say two words - in two, three minutes, Mr President - on the issue that is currently on the agenda, the Macedonian, the issues with the neighbouring country, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. We have forgotten that, that we already recognise the complex name. One, one, then. For the third assessment, I think that the Minister replied in relation to what is written for the auctions, which are not in the official text, but in the text which each time - take all the evaluations and see all the reports - it is accompanied and is not signed by the governments concerned - not just ours - and goes to the other Parliaments. Look at them, please, one - one. There it is described - but it is not a commitment - a course. The essential issue, which we must discuss with full honesty in this Chamber, is this: Is there a question of red loans and poor payers? There is. Clearly there is. We all know in this Chamber that, if we do not respond to this issue, using many views, which also exist in the opposition parties, in the best way possible, then we will indeed be facing very serious risks for both the stability of the banking system and the economy as a whole. This is an issue which, anyway, we either had or did not have a programme - because the red loans came to 100 billion euros - and they did not come out of one day to another - and we have to deal with it first of all by pushing their money out in every way - institutionally, with controls, etc., and we have such possibilities - the strategic poor payers ending with this anti-social, I would say, their attitude, their class-defined, but who make their money very nicely outside or declare zero incomes and do not pay what they have to pay. If you analyse the figures, if you see exactly how red loans are formed, you will see that large packages are in a few, compared to the rest, which is actually spread over a large part of the country's population, but they are much smaller. We are determined for two things: firstly, to continue to protect the people's home and with additional possible measures if necessary and to see very carefully how this is going to be the case. However, we are not going to allow strategic malpractices to continue this game that is not neutral at the expense of the banking system, but is ultimately at the expense of the economy and society and the Greek people. We need to see this with openness from all sides. Secondly, we have - and I conclude with this - the issue on which there is indeed a commitment at the statement of the last Eurogroup. We are committed to presenting a comprehensive development plan for the next period. That is where all our attention is concerned, and I think that all the political parties there should be a focus. You know very well that there are difficulties and issues for Greek society. No one refuses them and no one stands mockingly against them. We are barely standing up with absolute respect and with full consciousness of the injustices that exist in large parts of the population, even there will be, because it is difficult to overthrow the whole situation. Nevertheless, at the end of the day what I think will count is, coming out of the programme in August 2018 - because no one is talking about continuing the programme and I think it is confirmed by too many aspects - if we can - and this is the big bet - the next day, which will not be easy at all, because there will continue to be supervision, but we will have far greater degrees of freedom, to re-establish the country on its feet. And that also requires wider consensus, I would say. It's a big bet not only for the SYRIZA - ANEL government, but it's a big bet for the country. I conclude with the national issue, for which there is a great deal of discussion. I'd say that. Our Government is trying in a very clear way and in the national position that was shaped in 2007-2008 for a complex name against everyone. This is the position which basically exists in a very large majority of the political forces, even if today - and I will say about it - they are unfortunately slippery on other routes. So with this national position and no evidence of secret diplomacy - where did you see it just so I could understand it? - and together with the whole other package, which is the issues that are going through the forces of the neighbouring country and which have at their core issues of insulating and extreme nationalism, we are attempting, in a systematic way, very clear and very targeted, to deal with an issue that has been misguided for twenty-five years. There are responsibilities for this on the other side but on our side too. It is worth wondering how the New Democracy can say that the negotiation must really be stopped here, because there is no appropriate juncture and at the same time the leader of the European People's Party is saying that there is a window of opportunity. One must explain this to us, because self-immigration also has certain limits! It is not possible and one more chance must not be lost, and that is my final call and I shall finish, Mr President. We owe it to the political system, which I think contains within it and very serious people on the arc of democratic forces. It must not be lost another chance. I think that, if we deal with this problem soberly and seriously, we can actually find a solution that is both nationally advantageous, but also will contribute to peace and stability in the region, in a field where the two peoples - and they know that people in northern Greece - are in constant contact. People go and come from here and there. No one can tell me that the country is threatened by the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia or that this is a serious argument! The juncture is even more favourable because we have a moderate political leadership in the neighbouring country. As was seen from yesterday's meeting of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras with his counterpart, Mr Zaev, there is much room for us to have a solution. I imagine that every man with common sense really wishes to find this solution, which I say again will help both peoples and peace and stability in the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u260	Good. We continue with the seconds of the rapporteurs and special speakers. I don't know, Minister, do you want to give any answers to any questions that have been asked or to make some kind of action at the end? I don't want to pressure you, I'm just asking...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u261	I will say it at the end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u262	So let's start with the seconds of special speakers and rapporteurs. Mr. Fortsakis, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u263	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u264	Mr. Pavlidis, you will speak at the end. Next, Mr. Koutsoukos, then you, Mr. Karakostas, then Mr. Katsikis and Mr. Vardalis. So four rapporteurs - speakers. Mr Fortsakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u265	How much time do I have, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u266	The time you are entitled to dentology is half as much as you deserved in your protology. Shall we agree at six minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u267	Somewhere there. Six to seven minutes, tops.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u268	Okay. There's gonna be a tolerance. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. I did not intend to give a second thought because, in fact, the issues relating to the bill we are discussing have been exhausted. There is only a lack of clarification about the amendments that will be taken at the end. However, after what I have heard, I would like to give some answers because these cannot be left unanswered. First of all, I should like to begin with the last time I heard from my colleague, Mr Manda, on the change, allegedly, of the positions of the New Democracy and the slip, it is assumed, in nationalism or on the right, as I understand it, that Mr Mandas in the New Democracy. Skopje is really an issue that, as we all know, concerns all Hellenism. I personally do not believe that there are Greeks less or more patriots than others. The question is whether the manipulations are done as they should be, and whether a solution can be found in the present situation that serves the interests of Hellenism. I think that the government with great clumsiness has handled the issue from the outset because, instead of creating the conditions for a consensus which could then lead to a solution, it has taken a course that would rather be described as a course of secret diplomacy and has brought some people to bear, in the belief that it will be able to impose them, without considering whether the conditions that would allow such acceptance are met. The New Democracy from the outset said that as early as 2008 the conditions had been created which, if met, would have been able to accept a solution as a minimum national acquis. It is well known not to repeat them. In summary, it is the complex name, as the government, Erga omnes, has then accepted, with regard to all, recognition and, above all, the resolution of the problem of alkaliism. Today we all know that these conditions cannot be satisfied because Skopje is not in a position today to change their constitution. Without the change in their constitution, a solution cannot be found which meets these conditions. We have seen this even recently in yesterday's statements by the two Prime Ministers. The Prime Minister of the former Republic of Macedonia said he would do nothing but change the name of the airport and one way and it is very difficult for Skopje to accept at this time to change their constitution. So what kind of conversation can we have? How will we be able to meet our main demand for a solution to the problem of aluterism? I think that the pressures we may have from abroad to retreat to national issues should be dealt with in the same way that Kostas Karamanlis treated them when, in 2008, he refused to accept them, with the known results. So let us not seek to find far-right evidence when we have rallys, where a set of citizens from all political parties is mobilizing. Because this rally, this rally was primarily a protest by all the Greeks who got tired of seeing the country's prestige down, they got tired of being insulted from everywhere and they finally wanted to acknowledge that we have a country that has sovereignty. This is the main request of the rally, if you please. The fact that there have been extremist voices, which I neither accept nor accept of the party accepts, does not alter the dynamics of the protest submitted to this rally. I think, therefore, that the political leaders should have been informed long ago, that a framework has been established for us to be able to discuss a solution today. At this point in time, this kind of perspective, unfortunately, does not seem to be eradicated. I wish things would change and be shaped differently. But this is the situation right now. And instead of accusing the New Democracy of allegedly turning right, of realising that there is neither right nor left on these issues. There is the national demand, which, I repeat, accept that all Greeks want to succeed, but also the proper manoeuvres, which are now missing. As far as the economy is concerned, we are talking today about investments that will come with the adoption and introduction of the new framework provided for by the European Union, but we cannot deny that the exit from the memorandum remains false. Falsely composing why? We know that we have commitments that go far beyond the end of the memorandum. The cut in pensions and wages is coming. Here comes the tax reduction. The other commitments, which are multi-annual, are coming, while at the same time stopping funding for Europe at a very low cost for Greece and Greece, are being called upon to look for markets at multiple costs, even though this has been reduced in relation to the past. It has indeed been reduced, but it remains much heavier than what the European Union is giving us today. So we don't have a real way out. In order not to talk about capital controls, which are, of course, always here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Even - and I close with this in terms of economic aspects - what kind of manoeuvres are they the government is doing, which, at the time of a horrific overhaul of Greek citizens from a tax point of view, increases public workers, increases public bodies and increases public structures? We have about six hundred and eighty - nine thousand public workers in the public sector going to more than seven hundred twelve, perhaps if I'm not mistaken. In the wider public sector, we have been through the two hundred twenty-seven - I compare the years 2015 to 2017 - to the three hundred seventy-four, that is an increase of 65%. We have been to these agencies, from the thousand sixty-eight to the thousand two hundred eleven, an increase of 13.5%. In the fixed-term contractors and in the hourly wagers we have an increase of a thousand five hundred. Of the about ten thousand, we've spent nearly eleven thousand seven hundred. The same happens with the categories of poster, hereditaries, presidents or members of the board of directors, who have increased over six hundred eighty in two years. So we have here a breakthrough, if you want, of resources and powers, at the same time that Greek citizens really melt in taxes. Is this a behavior that may not be described as a populist or opportunistic behaviour? I think that the figures are too indicative and I would really like to hear an answer to these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u270	Mr. Fortsakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u271	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to say about the amendments, so that I do not go far enough, that we will not accept any of the ministerial amendments. For the articles, I shall be speaking at the time of the vote, Mr President, so that I do not take any more time at this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr. Fortsakis. Mr Koutsoukos, from the Democratic Reconciliation, has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. Because in my position I referred to the fact that in the last Eurogroup, the new commitments made by Mr Tsakalotos through the compliance report, they confirmed what we said earlier, that there was no clear exit, that the government was right, through the competent minister and the Parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, to answer the issue of auctions. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] There is no disagreement about how the strategic mispaid, ladies and gentlemen, should be dealt with. There is a disagreement that we are going to a universal system of electronic auctions, which, with your latest legislative intervention, can also be made possible by the Heads of the DU for over EUR 500, that you have undertaken to make ten thousand auctions by the end of 2018 and forty thousand in the next three years, with a specific economic performance plan and that despite the fact that we have pointed out to you that you do not protect the first home, you continue to say the opposite, and as a result the media is concerned with the case of a fucararia, somewhere here in a neighbourhood of Athens, which for 5,000 euros accepted the confiscation of the tax collector. It's the first step of the confiscation, because then the auction follows. Instead of putting your friendly press, the one you bought, to make headlines "how to protect the first house", with circulars of the Ministry of Finance in 2010, at PASOK, which prompted the taxpayers to check that this is not a first home before they proceed to auctions - in these provisions you look at, in our own and in Katselis law - we have tabled you with a legislative proposal, which defines with very specific characteristics what is the first house, how much square and how much value, to exclude it from this process of automatic auctioning process, which the other learns when the clerk comes to him. It's just things. Do it. Ladies and gentlemen, when you say that you will present a comprehensive development plan, we are pleased to present it. Have you seen the Eurogroup's decision, the one Mr Tsakalots has agreed and voted, which puts it in contrast to the need for long-term measures? This decision is very much behind the 2012 Eurogroup decision, which had specific indicators for the debt-to-GDP relationship. Can you compare them? I could say more. But the most characteristic was today. I could, for example, say about the pressures that are being made on the government for the forward application of the tax that you voted to come from 2019 to 2018 and more. Is there a more specific example than what happened today and did not show it in the Chamber? At the time I was up in Stepa, Mr Stathakis spoke to us earlier and presented the provisions that we are voting on - you are probably voting on - which we voted on last week in prerequisites for the quarries. The amendment tabled by Mr Stathakis, however, also has another article on PPC's ban not to participate in the daily energy planning trading system as a buyer. When did you discover this setup? And why is he coming here today? And why when I challenged Mr. Statakis to tell us two words, he took the backpack and left? Aren't these new commitments? We could say too much about the fact that you have committed the country hand and are playing in the election cycle. Nothing else. And from there on, defy what will happen in relation to the episcopal risk, you work in the logic of the "cushion" resulting from overtaxation and bleeding of households and middle layers. And that is a policy that you are doing on all issues, as in the big issue - Mr Lovers told you - that is linked to the scorpion. And that one in the logic of the election cycle. Blame game, who's gonna charge each other the dead end, instead of seeing the front. Because you're weak. I have spoken about the articles and I have said that we will vote on the articles concerning the ratification of the directive and the regulation. A number of articles that are purely fiscal in nature, and with which we disagree, we shall vote against them, for example for vessels or the impossibility of applying the favourable provision calculated on the basis of the day-to-day increase. I would like to say that while it was recognised that the provisions that I have introduced in the amendments I have tabled have been rejected with many praises, as we say at some time between us when we want to tell someone that you did 'good, but leave it, it's okay'. That is the logic of the government. Everyone recognises the law and the issues of equal pay for equal work and the fact that we cannot punish anyone with more burdensome than other provisions. I now come to the government's amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, the first is about the fact that the government, instead of listening to the protests by the hotel owners, is 'upgrading the cost of accommodation', making a legal wording and saying that the tenant will pay it. Does it change anything in relation to the cost of accommodation, that is, the competitiveness of Greek tourism? Apparently not. The other thing about PPC's share I analyzed earlier. There is the next one on the National Customs Code. I really don't understand. I want the Minister to ask her associates to take the floor and tell me what the feasibility of this is. So that we're making a correction to the provisions of Law 2960/2001? In any case, Minister, at least make a commitment that at the Kodra Camp, which we will give in return, nothing will be done about the "Pavlou Mela" Camp that you brought after a while to pay for the municipality. We have also experienced these practices on the part of your Government. We will vote for the extension of the deadline for finalising the original register and for the extension of the Commissioner's term of office to the former GNI. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. Mr Vardalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. I have taken the floor for an amendment, but you will allow me to make a comment on the controversy that has evolved before us. Politics, I'll talk. There's no personal matter. I take the stand of all the opposition parties, but also of the government, in relation to today's bill that we are discussing. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman noted that there is a common place - so he said - between the government and the other parties to vote for this bill. That is a good idea. But why is there a common place? The workers and the people who are listening to us must consider this issue, because in the opinion of the Communist Party of Greece there is a common basis on which all of you stand. What is this common basis? The need to support and shield financial markets, the need to support and shield banks. That's what you agree. Why do you agree? Because banks - and so it is - are considered a key pillar in this way of organising the economy, the capitalist one. In other words, this capitalist system that we are living in - and you tell us about 'wooden language' - is a key pillar in order to bring growth, as you say. That's why you're supporting this. So while all parties agree on these key pillars, while you have voted on the third memorandum together, in which there is provision for banks, for dealing - for example - with red loans, for the support of banks in general, you are now coming and weeping on the legacy of this very policy that you are implementing. Why are the loans sold, like? Why are auctions being promoted? But, just to address this problem with banks, the problem of red loans. That's what they want to solve. Didn't you vote in the third memorandum? Why support the banks? Even in this, you agree: to have liquidity, to give cheap money to business groups. They will bring your development. That is why priority in designing this period is - and will remain until such issues are resolved - the auctions and they will never stop. For the same reason, after all, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government shielded the entire process with electronic auctions in order to make the auctions uninterrupted. For the same reason, of course, it criminalised the people's reactions to auctions. I now come to talk about the amendment that we consider to be important. I am referring to Amendment No 1453/239, which incorporates two completely different issues, regardless of each other. We, for example, agree with one another and disagree with the other. On this basis we are proposing to separate these issues in the vote so that we can express this agreement on one issue and disagreement on the other and with our vote. For example, we disagree with the provisions relating to excise duty and we will vote against it. But there is also part of the same amendment - and I stress it - of the Kodra camp in the Kalamaria Municipality. Madam Secretary, why part of the camp? Why, for example, are private individuals not compensated for leaving and being given to the municipality so that the entire area can be exploited to the benefit of the people? Obviously you know that in the same space there is a NATO camp. Why isn't he leaving? Why don't you put that aside, so that this piece can also be given and exploited to the benefit of the people? And that is what I imagine you know: the request of the people of the region, but also of the municipal council, is to grant the entire extent of the camp. To combine this - there is a recent decision by the municipal council - and with the concession of the coastal front, which is a single section. They also call for the preservation of those declared to be granted to be used by the municipality for cultural activities. And finally, there is no provision for resources. You're talking about exploiting. Who's going to use them? The municipality has no money. In our opinion, the people of the region and the particular municipality - and not only - but also the wider area of Thessaloniki must be alert, continue to fight, to pass the entire area and to benefit the people, to ensure the necessary resources and not to privatise a piece - through the municipality, which is now going to pass. We, despite the fact that it is half a step, despite the fact that it does not solve the whole issue of the granting of the whole area, despite the fact that the resources have not been provided for the benefit of the people, we are not opposed and will vote for it. But if the amendment is adopted uniformly, we will vote 'at present' as a whole, clarifying the reasons why we will vote 'at present', as we disagree with one another and agree with the other. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Pavlides now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u277	I thought, Mr President, that we would have had our seconds very quickly. Unfortunately, there have been some issues which I must also address, first of all, starting with the slight episode. I'm not an episode fan for two and a half years in here. I actually dislike them and avoid them. Political behaviour, however, works reflexively against an environment of political exaggerations and a lack of arguments. And, in my opinion, it is politically impossible to discuss today the opposition to the 2014 election tactics of the SYRIZA in 2018, i.e. after three years of SYRIZA-ANEL co-existence, most of all when this story was politically ratified by the second elections in 2015, creating a new political planning for the country and for the government and a new development programme, which, in my opinion, should be a political priority for all of Parliament's parties. I was impressed by Mr. Loverd's position, which was a perception of betting on black, destructive. I think that in the roulette policy, as in the regular roulette of games, the "playing" tactic of investing in black - that is, investing permanently in one color - is a lost "playing" tactic. And, in my opinion, all these issues, at least, are being disproved in too many ways. We cannot discuss this in an environment that is unrealistic. The results of the Eurogroup are recently, the performances of the Greek bonds are recent, the gradual creation of the'safety pillow', so that we can get out to a clean exit on the markets, is a process that works and is growing. Contrary to the view of the Democratic Integration, the Change Movement, with European social democracy is also evident in political considerations in relation to the state of the country and the results of economic events, much more so when discussing these issues, at least in the context of the environment of the adjustment programmes and the Memorandum Programmes, everyone can have a different view and, in the context of an opposition, can misunderstood some assessments. On the question of urban and political reforms, however, if nothing else can parties and representatives of parties who have made very important fouls and who have, in fact, favoured the nuclear element in the DNA of the Hellenic Social Democrat Republic, which is, for example, a mere analogue, an historic demand of the Greek social democracies over the years, to vote against Parliament and, on the other hand, to point out politically, to the issues of the economy or political management. The second thing I want to say is about Mr. Dendia's wish: 'and your time homes', which I consider to be an indirect confession that elections will take place in 2019 rather than in 2018. It was also a contradiction in terms of counting a few weeks until the elections that he wished us "and of your time at home". I personally think it's rude to wish you no more. That is why I would like to say: To live with him the new political motif which has been shaped by the latest developments and attitudes of the Officerial Opposition, in fact by transforming the whole political line and position regarding the foreign policy issue in the Skopje nomenclature, and much more so that, as I have seen today, he has been'shooting a door' and a criticism specifically from the President of the European People's Party, Mr Joseph Dol. In my opinion, this change of position of the New Democracy as a party, obeying the extreme right-wing rhetoric concepts and the people who came to New Democracy as a transcription by LAOS, if anything else is not a change of attitude of a party, but it is, in fact, an attempt to change a national line that has been shaped all the previous years. I think it is a very dangerous tactic, an act of political atomicism to end it with a word: 'For us this has closed now'. I think he doesn't honor anyone and we'll find it in front of us if we adopt it. I will now come to the question of Mr. Amyras' position. I think we should talk about real data. The real facts are that everyone can have a different assessment of the economy, of the country's course and of the government's political choices, but not forget what environment we are operating in and what environment we are legislating at. The fact that we are living in a budgetary adjustment programme requires targets as a percentage of GDP, number, requires commitments in public revenue policy or pension expenditure commitments, I mean the government's commitments. 1% of pension expenditure as a percentage of GDP were commitments that entered the second assessment, unreasonable in our opinion, and we declared it against the positions of the European institutions, even as irrational demands of the IMF. Let Mr. Amyras tell us what we have to do. It will either call on us not to implement the budgetary targets that the country is obliged to implement or we will have to tell us what other areas we have to implement them. I agree. To tell us 'you have done this poorly, but this budgetary adjustment as an obligation of the country to apply it to another sector' and to indicate it to us. To tell us nothing, only to show us what we have legislated, without suggesting anything else and not giving us the resignation of the programme and to get out of the programme, I think that it is not helping anyone and it is just an exaggeration, without being a political argument. I would like to stress this for a very specific reason, because it was an absurd demand from the IMF, given that in the first assessment and in the resolution in May 2016 and the tax and insurance bill - with the approval of the institutions both bills - were not tax-free nor were there any incorporation of the contribution into the net taxable income. It was two absurdities, because the figures after the bills were passed were positive and the course of the EFKA was positive and the revenue course of 2016 was positive. There was no economic reason, no argument to change the architecture of these two bills. However, the IMF required it, given the pessimistic forecasts it had for the economy, in contrast to the forecasts of the European institutions and the Greek Government. So let us not talk about all this again, and let us not make such easy positions. To conclude, with regard to the draft law, I would like to say, with regard to the amendments and interventions that have been taken out of public consultation and from the parliamentary debate, that several of them also work as improvements to the draft law. For some, although there are no objections to their adoption, there is a need for a procedure, both through the approval of the services of the Ministry or the General Accounting Office of the State. As far as I know, and in communication with the Ministry, it is in a positive direction, but there needs to be such a procedure. The property tax on multilateral trading companies is also in the same context. So, with regard to these amendments - although I in two - three of them I agree - they will not be tabled today. They will go through the forced procedure of the Ministries and control so that they can at least be submitted in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The debate will be closed by the State Secretary for Finance. Ms. Papanaceu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u279	First of all, thank you very much. We did not want to begin with our anniversary today, but you reminded us of it this morning, and even some people made announcements this morning. They honor the three years of their election defeat! In fact, the victory of SYRIZA in the elections on 25 January is a milestone for the history of the European Left and despite the negative correlations of power, despite the unfavourable conditions in which we fought for all these three years, the results, as our Parliamentary representative said, will be for the benefit of society, will be for the benefit of our country. We kept her up, which you couldn't do all the previous years. We held her up, took her out of the memoirs. And here it was mentioned by some, some are burned because we don't get a new loan again, because the lenders are leaving and leaving us the rest. Do you want us to continue getting loans? Do you want us to keep them here? We don't want to. We want to move on to a home program in our country, what we have done so far. All those three years we've put the country in order. We used the Greek people's money - which we really know what trouble the Greek people gave - with great wisdom and all that brought the results of the surpluses we have brought over these years and the successes we have had in this area. It is in no way going to come the tax-free earlier in 2019. And it will not come sooner, as the 'cutter' has not come, as all the other measures have not been taken. We will deal with all the things that we have to deal with in the next period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u280	Until 2060.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u281	I shall refer to the Macedonian issue, because there is a great specula here too. The former Foreign Minister, Ms. Bakoyannis, said that "the parties have drawn up a common political line in 2008, in which Mr. Tsipras was hit". Do you not agree, gentlemen of the New Democracy, with the policy of 2008? Do you not agree that this should go back to support now and move on for the country? Do you not agree with Mr Kumucako, the foreign policy officer who said today is the best time to solve the problem? Why do you want to leave outside and want to follow the extreme right forces that are currently dragging you? Let's also say some information about the state here, after a announcement from the Department of Administrative Reform. You have referred to evidence from ‘ERGAN’. You said that the government's agencies in 2015 were two hundred twenty-seven and three hundred so many in 2016. You did not mention that in 2014 the government's agencies were nine hundred sixty-seven and that we abolished seven hundred forty. So, let's see, because the numbers here can change our Rota. December 2014: five hundred seventy-seven thousand eighty-six permanent employees. With the "bad" SYRIZA, who hired me, I don't know how many civil servants, October 2017: five hundred sixty-sixteen thousand seven hundred sixty-three. Elements are from ELSTAT, Independent Authority. Contractors, December 2014, missing persons. Nobody knows how many people they were, they weren't registered anywhere, they weren't in the government register. In 2015: forty-eight thousand eighty-four. October 2017: forty-seven thousand four hundred seventy-two. These contractors will transfer them to the permanent employees. We don't want to keep them in a hostage one day. It's the only sure thing about the SYRIZA government. For the residence tax, I'll give some explanations on the bill. We have voted for the residence tax, and what we are now coming to do is to implement it. Regarding the implementation of explaining: You will have travelled to too many countries abroad, Mr Amyras, and because of your work. Everywhere you go to the hotels, when you left along with what you had used in the hotel bar or anything else, you were told that you had to pay a fee. That is exactly what we are doing today in our country. This residence tax will be paid by everyone who will visit with his departure from the hotel along with all the rest. Here we come to say that it will be with a separate document and not only will it be with a separate document, but it will not have VAT. We are not burdening it with VAT. Also, hoteliers, who will receive it, should return it to the next month. Mr Athanasios mentioned it - I think that we have clarified it, but it is important that it be heard from here too - in fishing. There is really no problem with fishing vessels. Paragraph (aaa) states that vessels intended for fishing activity as well as (b) coastal fishing vessels are not included in the VAT. Since it also states that the conditions are also operating mainly on the high seas, I note that this is where the explanatory statement comes from saying that the exemptions to a taxable person engaged in fisheries, irrespective of the VAT arrangements in which they fall, are included in paragraph (a). So there is no question of fishing. For Article 74 of the Customs Code, which Mr Koutsoukos asked me to give some clarification. As far as you know, a lot of people take oil from cars, pancakes, tires and various materials, which in modern times are no longer thrown into garbage. All of these work out in some ways in terms that respect the environment. And since the material that comes out, the final product - apart from the other residues that in various ways are destroyed - can be engine fuel, heating and so on. We had to come to see how we should put some excise duty on these new materials. When these are used as fuel, that is to say they are used for engines, heating and so forth, we come to include in the code precisely this legislation. It's a change in the form of a product. We do, if you want me to say more specifically, in the case of Diesel. Some of these materials come in this category. And here we come to say that, you know, we don't put it to you on the day of production, but when you use it, or when you sell it on the 20th day of that, as is the case with all the rest, you will come to the state. To conclude, and so that there is no issue on auctions, I say again that there is in the institutions' compliance report on the second assessment - the one Mr Mandas has very well analysed - an information material to all the Member States - members of the Eurozone, which refers to a number of auctions. It does not refer to either SMOU or TMU. None of the official texts mention the number of auctions that we have to make. And here, because he was also mentioned about the Pugratium DWO, with Ruvikon and all that happened, I want to say it again too many times. The Greek State does not auction for small amounts. The figures I gave you before show that this is the tactics of the Greek public. In fact, the Greek state makes seizures. Mr. Koutsouko, and as a tax advisor you know very well that the Greek State must ensure that its interests are safeguarded and guaranteed by making the seizure on any property when it has found no other way to collect its money. And he makes the confiscation precisely because, when he transfers it, he will sell it or whatever else, or he will be auctioned by anyone, he will have the right to take his Greek public money as well. With his ranking, the Greek State is now fifth. The Greek State will not do its own auction for the interests of others. The Greek State simply wants to safeguard the interests of the Greek people, with respect and away from the strategic poor payers, who, as we have said, really exist - and this has also been analysed by Mr Manda - neither of us will preserve them because they are at the expense of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u282	Mr President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u283	Please, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u284	Mr Vardalis made a very good comment. It is not just this article that has the 'Must' Camp and the customs provisions. It is also the other amendment, the first, which has the residence tax and VAT on naval projects, etc. I see that in the body you shared us, they are incorporated as separate articles. Isn't that right? So we will not vote for them as amendments, we will vote for them as articles in the bill, the individual parts. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u285	No, Mr. Comrade. I am told that amendments will be voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u286	No, I'm sorry. I have the body here in my hands and it says a hundred and twenty and it puts the residence tax in the first piece and then a hundred and twenty Greek-US defensive programs. Then we go to what Mr. Vardalis said. So we have separate articles. So the services solved it without asking you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u287	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u288	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u289	I am aware that they have not been incorporated into the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u290	One amendment has not been incorporated. The first, which is the residence tax, has been incorporated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u291	Let us clarify this now so that we know how the vote is to take place. I would like to inform you that nothing has been incorporated into the committee. They have been voted as they have been. You may be right, Mr. Kutsuko, but we'll go as they let us know now. There's got to be a little misunderstanding. It's okay. We'll move on. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Business of financial instruments and other provisions' is adjourned. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u295	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u296	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u298	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u300	The Treasury bill: ‘Business of Financial Instruments and Other Provisions’ was therefore accepted in principle by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u304	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u305	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u307	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u308	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u309	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u313	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u314	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u316	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u318	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u322	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u323	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u326	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u327	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u331	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u332	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u334	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u335	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u336	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u340	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u341	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u345	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u349	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u350	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u353	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u354	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u358	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u359	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u361	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u363	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u367	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u368	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u370	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u372	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u376	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u377	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u379	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u381	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u385	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u386	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u388	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u390	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u394	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u395	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u396	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u397	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u399	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u400	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u403	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u404	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u408	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u412	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u413	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u415	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u416	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u417	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u418	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u421	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u422	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u424	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u426	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u430	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u431	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u435	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u436	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u439	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u440	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u444	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u445	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u448	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u449	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u453	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u457	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u458	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u460	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u462	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u466	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u467	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u469	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u471	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u472	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u475	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u476	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u478	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u480	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u484	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u485	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u487	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u489	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u490	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u493	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u494	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u496	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u498	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u499	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u502	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u503	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u504	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u507	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u508	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u511	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u512	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u516	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u517	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u520	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u521	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u523	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u525	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u529	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u530	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u532	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u534	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u538	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u539	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u543	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u544	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u547	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u548	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u551	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u552	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u553	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u556	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u557	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u561	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u562	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u565	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u566	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u568	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u570	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u571	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u574	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u575	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u576	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u577	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u578	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u579	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u580	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u583	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u584	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u585	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u586	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u588	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u589	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u592	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u593	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u594	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u595	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u596	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u597	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u598	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u601	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u602	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u603	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u605	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u606	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u607	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u610	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u611	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u612	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u613	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u615	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u619	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u620	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u621	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u622	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u623	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u624	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u625	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u627	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u628	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u629	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u631	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u632	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u633	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u634	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u635	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u637	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u638	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u639	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u640	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u642	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u643	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u646	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u647	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u648	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u649	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u650	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u651	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u652	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u655	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u656	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u657	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u659	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u660	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u661	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u664	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u665	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u667	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u668	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u669	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u670	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u673	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u674	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u675	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u676	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u677	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u678	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u679	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u681	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u682	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u683	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u684	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u685	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u686	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u687	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u688	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u689	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u690	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u691	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u692	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u694	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u695	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u696	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u697	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u698	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u699	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u700	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u701	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u702	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u703	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u704	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u705	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u706	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u708	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u709	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u710	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u711	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u713	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u714	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u715	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u717	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u718	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u719	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u720	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u722	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u723	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u724	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u725	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u726	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u727	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u728	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u729	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u730	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u731	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u732	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u733	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u734	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u735	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u736	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u737	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u738	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u739	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u740	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u741	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u742	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u743	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u744	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u745	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u746	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u747	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u748	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u749	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u750	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u751	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u753	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u754	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u755	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u756	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u757	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u758	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u759	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u760	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u761	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u762	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u763	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u764	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u765	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u766	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u767	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u768	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u769	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u771	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u772	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u773	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u774	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u775	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u776	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u777	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u778	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u779	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u780	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u781	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u782	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u783	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u784	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u785	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u786	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u787	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u788	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u789	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u790	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u791	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u792	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u793	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u794	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u795	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u796	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u797	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u798	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u799	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u800	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u801	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u802	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u803	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u804	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u805	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u806	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u807	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u808	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u809	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u810	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u812	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u813	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u814	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u815	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u816	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u817	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u818	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u819	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u821	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u822	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u823	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u824	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u825	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u826	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u827	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u828	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u829	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u830	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u831	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u832	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u833	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u834	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u835	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u836	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u837	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u838	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u839	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u840	Article 60 has therefore been accepted as such. Does this House accept Rule 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u841	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u842	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u843	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u844	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u845	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u846	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u847	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u848	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u849	Article 61 has therefore been accepted as such. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u850	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u851	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u852	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u853	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u854	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u855	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u856	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u857	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u858	Article 62 has therefore been accepted as such. Does this House accept Rule 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u859	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u860	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u861	Yes
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u862	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u863	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u864	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u865	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u866	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u867	Article 63 has therefore been accepted as such. Will Rule 64 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u868	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u869	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u870	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u871	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u872	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u873	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u874	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u875	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u876	Article 64 has therefore been accepted as such. Will Rule 65 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u877	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u878	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u879	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u880	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u881	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u882	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u883	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u884	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u885	Article 65 has therefore been accepted as such. Will Rule 66 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u886	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u887	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u888	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u889	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u890	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u891	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u892	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u893	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u894	Article 66 has therefore been accepted as such. Does this House accept Rule 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u895	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u896	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u897	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u898	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u899	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u900	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u901	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u902	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u903	Article 67 has therefore been accepted as such. Will Rule 68 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u904	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u905	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u906	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u907	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u908	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u909	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u910	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u911	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u912	Article 68 has therefore been accepted as such. Does this House accept Rule 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u913	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u914	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u915	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u916	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u917	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u918	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u920	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u921	Article 69 has therefore been accepted as such. Does this House accept Rule 70 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u922	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u923	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u924	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u925	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u926	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u927	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u928	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u929	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u930	Article 70 has therefore been accepted as such. Does this House accept Rule 71 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u931	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u932	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u933	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u934	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u935	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u936	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u937	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u938	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u939	Article 71 has therefore been accepted as such. Will Rule 72 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u940	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u941	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u942	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u943	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u944	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u945	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u946	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u947	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u948	Article 72 has therefore been accepted as such. Will Rule 73 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u949	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u950	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u951	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u952	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u953	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u954	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u955	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u956	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u957	Article 73 has therefore been accepted as such. Will Rule 74 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u958	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u959	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u960	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u961	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u962	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u963	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u964	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u965	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u966	Article 74 was therefore accepted as such. Will Rule 75 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u967	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u968	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u969	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u970	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u971	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u972	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u973	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u974	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u975	Article 75 has therefore been accepted as such. Does this House accept Rule 76 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u976	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u977	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u978	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u979	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u980	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u981	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u982	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u983	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u984	Article 76 has therefore been accepted as such. Will Rule 77 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u985	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u986	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u987	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u988	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u989	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u990	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u991	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u992	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u993	Article 77 has therefore been accepted as such. Will Rule 78 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u994	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u995	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u996	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u997	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u998	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u999	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1000	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1001	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1002	Article 78 has therefore been accepted as such. Will Rule 79 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1003	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1004	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1005	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1006	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1007	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1008	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1009	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1010	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1011	Article 79 has therefore been accepted as such. Will Rule 80 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1012	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1013	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1014	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1015	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1016	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1017	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1018	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1019	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1020	Article 80 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 81 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1021	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1022	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1023	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1024	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1025	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1026	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1027	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1028	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1029	Article 81 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 82 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1030	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1031	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1032	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1033	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1034	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1035	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1036	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1037	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1038	Article 82 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 83 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1039	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1040	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1041	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1042	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1043	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1044	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1045	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1046	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1047	Article 83 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 84 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1048	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1049	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1050	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1051	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1052	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1053	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1054	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1055	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1056	Article 84 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 85 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1057	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1058	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1059	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1060	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1061	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1062	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1063	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1064	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1065	Article 85 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 86 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1066	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1067	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1068	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1069	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1070	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1071	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1072	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1073	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1074	Article 86 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 87 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1075	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1076	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1077	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1078	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1079	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1080	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1081	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1082	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1083	Article 87 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 88 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1084	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1085	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1086	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1087	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1088	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1089	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1090	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1091	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1092	Article 88 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 89 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1093	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1094	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1095	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1096	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1097	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1098	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1099	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1100	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1101	Article 89 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 90 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1102	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1103	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1104	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1105	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1106	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1107	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1108	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1109	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1110	Article 90 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 91 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1111	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1112	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1113	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1114	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1115	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1117	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1118	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1119	Article 91 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 92 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1120	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1122	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1123	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1124	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1125	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1126	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1127	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1128	Article 92 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 93 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1130	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1131	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1132	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1133	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1134	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1135	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1136	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1137	Article 93 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 94 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1138	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1141	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1142	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1144	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1146	Article 94 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 95 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1148	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1150	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1151	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1152	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1153	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1155	Article 95 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 96 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1156	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1159	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1160	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1162	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1164	Article 96 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 97 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1168	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1169	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1171	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1173	Article 97 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 98 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1177	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1178	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1180	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1182	Article 98 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 99 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1186	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1187	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1189	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1191	Article 99 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 100 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1195	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1196	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1198	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1200	Article 100 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 101 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1204	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1205	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1207	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1209	Article 101 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 102 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1213	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1214	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1216	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1218	Article 102 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 103 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1220	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1221	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1222	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1223	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1225	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1227	Article 103 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 104 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1231	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1232	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1234	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1236	Article 104 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 105 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1240	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1241	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1242	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1245	Article 105 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 106 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1249	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1250	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1254	Article 106 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 107 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1258	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1259	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1261	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1263	Article 107 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 108 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1267	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1268	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1270	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1272	Article 108 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 109 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1274	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1275	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1276	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1277	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1279	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1280	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1281	Article 109 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 110 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1284	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1285	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1286	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1288	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1290	Article 110 has therefore been accepted as majority. Can Rule 111, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1291	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1292	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1293	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1294	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1295	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1297	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1298	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1299	Article 111 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 112 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1300	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1301	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1303	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1304	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1306	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1308	Article 112 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 113 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1312	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1315	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1317	Article 113 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 114 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1318	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1321	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1322	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1326	Article 114 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 115 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1327	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1328	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1329	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1330	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1331	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1333	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1334	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1335	Article 115 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 116 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1337	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1338	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1339	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1340	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1342	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1343	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1344	Article 116 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 117 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1346	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1347	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1348	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1349	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1351	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1352	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1353	Article 117 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 118 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1355	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1357	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1358	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1360	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1361	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1362	Article 118 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 119 shall be deleted; Can the House accept the new Rule 119 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1364	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1365	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1366	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1367	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1369	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1370	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1371	The new Article 119 was therefore accepted as a majority. We are entering the vote on the amendments. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1447 and a special number 233 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1373	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1374	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1375	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1376	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1378	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1379	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1380	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1447 and a specialist of 233 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1450 and a specialist of 236 in its own right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1381	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1382	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1383	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1384	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1385	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1387	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1388	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1389	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1450 and a specialist of 236 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 1453 and a specialist of 239 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1392	Mr President, I am necessarily voting 'at present', but I want our vote to be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1393	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1394	They are present with the same clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1396	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1397	They are present with the same clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1398	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1453 and a specialist of 239 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1454 and a specific number of 240 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1400	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1402	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1403	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1407	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1454 and a special 240 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1455 and a special number 241 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1408	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1409	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1411	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1412	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1413	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1414	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1416	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1455 and a specialist of 241 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as an article itself. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1418	Oh, no. Mr President, I would like to make it clear that 'no' means that we wanted an extension of the deadline for the entry into force of the law, as provided for in the directive.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1420	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1421	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1425	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. The Finance Ministry’s bill: ‘Business of Financial Instruments and Other Provisions’ was therefore accepted in principle and in Articles. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1429	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1430	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1431	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1432	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1434	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Business of Financial Instruments and Other Provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and on the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1435	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1436	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-25-S1-commons.u1437	With the agreement of the House at 17.19 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, January 26, 2018 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and b) debate on Question No 13/8-12-2017 to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the anti-agricultural policy of the Government, which causes great discontent to farmers, according to the agenda distributed.
