ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's Statement of expenditure, 2017, B) of 24 July 2018 of the Parliament's Draft Budget Forestry Act, 2019, C) of 29 June 2018 of the Government of Cyprus Act of Accession ‘Extension of reduced VAT rates on the islands of Leros, Lesvos, Kosmos, Samos and Chios’ (A115), (b) of 24 July 2018 Act of the Legislative Area ‘Specific account for the aid of fires broken down in areas of the State of Lesbos, Lesbos, Kos, Samos and Chios’ (A135), (c) of 26 July 2018 Act of the Legislative Action ‘Speciency of Special Accounts for the Assistance of Fires broken down by fires in the Conservation of Other Areas of Conservation of Conservation of Territages and Territages of Territages’ (Augused Territory of Territory of Territory of Territory of Territory of Territory of Territorial Measures) (Agory of Territorial Measures of Territorial Areas) and Territorial Measures for the Cons of Territorial Areas of Territorial Areas of Terrestrial Areas of Terrestrial Areas of Terrestrial Areas of Territorial Areas of Terrestrial Areas of Terrestrial Areas of Terrestres’ (Agages of Territory of Territory Nos of Territory N.]] [[They are announced to the House by Mrs Aphrodite Theopevtou, MP of Kefalonia, the following:]] [[A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES]] [[To enter page 17 a]] [[B. REQUIREMENTS OF SUPPORT IN BUILDERS’ REQUIREMENTS]] [[To enter page 17 b]] [[CHANGES BACK FOR CHANGING MATTER]] Ladies and gentlemen, today the procedure provides for the reading of petitions and a debate on topical and urgent questions. Starting with the meeting with a decision of the Conference of Presidents, there will be a report by the President-in-Office, namely, in this case, on the anniversary of 17 November on the revolt of the Polytechnic. I would like to begin by reading the press release that this House is making today. "The House honoured the anniversary of the Polytechnic insurrection. Parliamentary delegation, honouring the Polytechnic fighters, came this morning and filed a wreath in the gallery, since a group of strangers prevented the MPs from entering the Polytechnic monument. Head of the Parliamentary Delegation was Mr Theodores Dritsas, as the representative of the President of the Parliament." Mr. Dritsas made the following statement: "The Greek Parliament, even under these circumstances, submitted its wreath in the Polytechnic Hall. The struggles for democracy, the struggles for the Polytechnic insurrection, united forces very differently into a goal that resulted. The times also insist on today's conditions, on the great difficulties faced by our society, our people and our place, the message of the Polytechnic to be a message of racing, promotional proclaiming and not splitting. Parliamentary Representation was attended by the MPs Aphrodite Theopheptatus, Annetas Kavadias, Nikolaos Manios, Christos Mandas, Aristides Baltas and Dimitris Rizzos and as far as I know, it was also a delegation from the Association of Officials of the Parliament, which had called for this. Ladies and gentlemen, forty-five years after the outbreak of November at the Polytechnic School, the collective memory and confidence in the historical offer of this event, which had pan-European and global resonance, not only for the fall of the dictatorship, but also for the formation of a democratic conscience and the democratic education of the later generations to date, is common and solid, but also for the establishment of democracy itself all these years. The tribute to the victims of the uprising - for example, I mention the young children at that time, Michael Myroyannis and Diomedes Konninos, is with us today his sister - as in the victims throughout the seven-year period of tyranny, is the Greek Parliament's minimum obligation. The notion at every juncture of the slogans of "Psomi - Freedom", of the democratic, anti-distant, anti-fascist demands and, of course, of the broader framework aimed at imperialism, wars and enormous social inequalities are elements of a history written with blood, self-sacrificing and with an extremely autonomous mass movement embraced by the Greek people and in which they played a decisive, important role in the field of the Left. Real signalling in the price of the November uprising has today in its heart the need to condone all democratic forces in Europe and Greece in the fight against those who are working out hidden or uncovered, confessed or unspeakable, new fascist aberrations, new dangerous occults and divisions, new warfare. We must augurate and condolence with all those who see strong forces targeting refugees and immigrants to build a Europe of fortresses, to those with this pretext to build national, nationalist, xenophobic folding and uphold new borders that deepen and the socio-taxial conflicts and try to build up the values of solidarity, democracy, coexistence between cultures, peoples and religions. It is also important to strengthen the struggles that bring to the surface the systematic effort to resolve the everyday life of our own societies, to break up at the forefront of young and older raids and violence against all different colours, origins, the particular preferences of life, that is, racism in practice, even selectively against our weak and vulnerable groups of domestic and foreign citizens. It is of great importance for our own democracy and democratic development in all aspects of focus and social democracy and equality that we do not leave open doors and windows to form or revive dangerous review, historical, propaganda mechanisms which channel the poison of oblivion and false narratives for the heroic heroic heroic heroin of donation of dolphins, fungus, fascists throughout Europe and, of course, in our country, which has its own very special historical route and its own global recognition of allegiances, heroic forms, riots, with emblematic, leading moments at the very same time the uprising of November. The Greek Parliament has proceeded with the publication and publication in collaboration with the House of Representatives of Cyprus of all the minutes of the Cyprus file. I think it is a substantial contribution from the whole democratic spectrum of the country's political forces, to communicate with the new generations, not only with Cyprus's own tragedy - which ultimately led to the fall of the dictatorship in the summer of 1974 - but above all to see the historical criminal responsibilities of the pigs, the coup d'états and, more generally, the free regimes of the time that led to the terrain, to give an opportunity and pretext for Turkish intervention and the continuing forty-four years of tragic situation in Meganissos. That is why it is an incredible energies, or at all times a defence from the political nostalgics and supporters of the then coups within the very House of the perpetrators and their criminal responsibilities. The inspiration given by the struggles of the anti-dictatorial mass and student movement and, in particular, the uprising of November, colleagues and colleagues, has clearly widened the limits of the democratic and social struggles themselves. It provided the indiscriminate right of every citizen, worker, youth, but also of any political collectiveness to manifest at the borderlines affected by popular sovereignty and the common constitutional framework, the right to resistance, indifference, non-institutional manipulation of extra-institutional and institutional functions and powers, which at times threaten citizens' rights and status. This deposit is not enclosed in stereotypes, it does not enter a mausoleum, it does not have owners, it does not close in circumstances, and it does not allow the constant intimidation that they expect to disarm it as a driving force in the end of social, political developments and democracy itself and history. Armouring with the legislation and in the context of the Constitution and its successive revisions is a sign that there are forces working to concentrate democracy, freedoms, solidarity, respect for man and respect for the struggles that anticipate the overthrow of social inequalities and divisions that want to put a barrier to new wars, but also to encourage all the forces that make the neo-fascist outbreaks in Europe and our country. Just a little comment, finishing up. It is clear to all of us that the Polytechnic, when the uprising of November is honored, cannot have closed doors, especially those who want to honor it, and they have deposites and a right to do so. That's self-evident. Because closed doors show closed ears and closed horizons in developments and in the future. That's like a deposit from the Step of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-16-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Following the report on November 17 and the resilience of this anniversary, we are going directly to read reports. I would ask the Member, Mr Aphrodite Theopontato, to announce the references to this House:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-16-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First of all, I would like to say that today only one question will be debated, because of the impediment of the competent ministers. To avoid delaying you, I will then read you what will not be discussed, so that we can get straight to the question that is being discussed. The second question will be discussed under number 798/20-8-2018, the question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Laconia, New Democracy, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Enjournment and upgrading of the Peloponnese University Nursing School in Sparta". Here, Mr Davaki, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-16-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, as the President of today's parliamentary intervention has foretold, this is an important, hot, issue for Laconia, which concerns - within many introductory words, I would like to believe - 'transfer' to Tripoli of the University of Peloponnese operating Nursing School in Sparta. At the beginning of the summer, in July 2018, the regular assembly of the university nursing school considered it appropriate to transfer the school to Tripoli for specific reasons, which he mentioned. This is, of course, according to information, without becoming more or less known to the institutional or local bodies of this kind. I would like to stress at the beginning of my speech that since 2005, which this school has been set up to date, that is to say, almost 13 years, the school has created a good prospect for the subject they have been working on. It has adequate and newly built facilities, as you will probably know. It has a well-trained and active teaching and administrative staff, a modern and flexible curriculum, an active research agenda and so far has been very important. I think it will be a bad dream, so I can describe it, in order not to use a more unfavourable expression, this decision of the regular assembly of the Department of Nursing. I believe that the fabulous and multitude expressed in this Chamber must be the political will, despite the fact that - and I will consent to that - there may be some specific problems, such as the basic invoicing of the regular assembly, the clinical education of students, linked to our local hospital. In any case, I believe that even now this case, the second nursing school - and I close, Madam President - which operates in our country must be strengthened on the basis of lighting, if you wish, of its interconnection with the hospital, giving it the opportunity to have students' clinical training. I expect with anguish, like all the Lacones, your answer. I do not want you to connect it with a topical demand, because I think that everything I have said since 2005, up until now, is that Sparta's nurse must continue to be in Sparta because she has the guarantees and the evidence to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-16-S1-commons.u5	Before giving the floor to the Minister, I would like to make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Eleftherios Venizelos Chamber and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, twenty-seven members of the Association for the Protection of Children and Liberties. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-16-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Madam President. In the concerns expressed by the President of Parliament about today, I would like to add that one of the things that must not be forgotten, and many times when historical events are forgotten, is the daily life that has led to the end result. The daily life of the University was then an anthem in democracy and democratic processes, and that is forgotten by everyone who today sees it as the exclusive expressions of such a tradition. Mr. Davakis, your question raises many issues. I understand that you don't want to ask me about the university clinic, because that's not the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, it's a matter of...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-16-S1-commons.u7	Of course, I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-16-S1-commons.u8	Since you have it in your written question, it is the responsibility of the universities and the Ministry simply consents. Here's what's going on. There is the general meeting of teachers who decided to transfer nursing to Tripoli and there is a negative position, say, in local society, so that we do not generalize it. Here, then, once again, something has been afflicted with us for too many years. Who finally decides on the future of higher education? Do the municipalities, the metropolitans, or do academics decide, along with the state? "Decision" does not mean that they do not listen to the others, but we, as you know, have a very negative experience, because the programming of higher education throughout the country was made after local pressures, where sections were founded and left to their mercy. So, what we are trying to do - and we completed it in the Ionian Sea, we completed it in Yannina with the Epirus TEI and tabled a bill now, which will be voted and related to the University of Thessaly, the TEI Thessaly, the TEI Stereas, the University of Athens, etc. - there are two things. Firstly, we should open an extremely important debate on the future of universities, which has been going on for too many decades and part of this debate is synergies with TEI. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So the same thing we do in the Peloponnese. In other words, a working group has been set up in which there is only one representative of the Ministry and there are representatives of the University of Peloponnese and the Peloponnese TEI, who have been designated by the Foundations themselves. We are therefore waiting for the conclusion of this committee and on the basis of this conclusion we will make the political decisions. We don't want to do it vice versa. Now, it does not mean that the political decisions that will be taken are either sincere or that they will be in dramatic conflict with the committee's proposals. That is exactly what we have tried and managed in the Ionian Sea, that is what we have achieved at Yannina together with the Epirus TEI and, with excellent results on both sides, that is what we have achieved in Thessaly and Centrally, an extremely complex project and what we are putting forward differs from the committee's proposals, but that was the basis for discussion. I say, therefore, that we wait for the findings to come and take into account all the other issues. That is what I would ask, and I think that is a process that the state follows and accepts its conclusions, I think, for the first time after the Century. There's nothing that the Ministry should impose from above, but there's a process down, taking into account, as I said, local peculiarities.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-16-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Davakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-16-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Madam President. I will agree with the Minister. I think that the future of universities is not defined either by the metropolitans or by the mayors, or by the Members of Parliament, with the famous tom blocking of political costs. They define it, as you quite rightly said, the university community and the state. So I now ask for the state’s assistance, in carrying out the process of issuing the findings, to come to your words. Because if the state does not collide with the main problem, which is the student's clinical education, if it does not collide during that period, I fear, Minister, that the conclusion will be what we are afraid of. I believe that in order for the university community to be able to formulate a positive approach to what we are calling for - and here I express the will of local society as an institution and representative of it - there must be State assistance. There must be assistance from the university community, which is impossible, since there can be no clinical education, as you have said. And I say that because there are some data. On October 17, about a year ago, you meet with the colleague of the ruling majority and now Minister, Mr Arachovitis, and you mention your intention to upgrade the Nursing School in Sparta and to set up a university clinic. We are not talking about it because it is missing, because the Minister for Health is not here. You also referred to a press release released after your meeting, which said that this case can be strengthened and with educational humanoids, the famous human patient simulators. And we discussed the possibility of supplying these humanoids, that is to say, clinical practice on mortars and others with Community resources. In other words, there seems to be a state's intention to strengthen the Nursing School in different ways. And we welcome that. On the other hand, there must be an important intervention with the famous political will. Does the current state, the government, want to continue the nursing at Sparta, interconnected with Sparta Hospital? If he wants, he must start with an important effort - and with the administration of the hospital, which is trying - to upgrade the student's clinical education immediately. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some more time, Madam President. And I think you can do it with good cooperation. If we leave the matter in the committee you mentioned, in the working party, to formulate the finding, the working group will simply say that we do not have good clinical education, because the hospital does not provide it for the third-year, fourth-year student, so that we can lead to the unfavourable, as I said, result. That is what I wanted to ask, and that is what I wanted to make. I believe that as a university, you understand that it is a pity that a thirteen-year-old school is at this moment. I think there can be a good prospect for the school with your own intervention. In conclusion - and I think it is easy to be sloppy - I want to refer to - and I would like an answer for this because I have you now and you have the honour of attending the House and you are the only minister - in the school gaps. We have thirty gaps in Laconia of major specialties, like philosophers. There is mobilization in the Areopolitan, the High School and the High School of Areopoli in Mani. There is a document from the School of Naples, NAPAL - I would like to say that - which states that there are no basic qualifications. You said at the beginning of the school year that there is no gap. Okay, we may say this many times, but you need to see it specifically for Laconia, where there are thirty gaps of major specialties. Thank you for your tolerance, Madam President, and I am anxiously waiting for both answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-16-S1-commons.u11	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-16-S1-commons.u12	I hope I have not said the word 'humanoids' because in this context you mentioned it it is not a good word.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-16-S1-commons.u13	It's a press release of... I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-16-S1-commons.u14	I don't think it's my press release. Now I'm saying it for the sake of joke. Look, I am pleased, first of all, that we agree on how education policy should be developed for higher education institutions. It's important that we leave from past sins with consensus. As it happened, we are mocking Greek society. We're really trying to untie a bucket that's been created. They are responsible for persons and policies. I know there were reactions from different places. I note this so that we don't level everything. We must both agree that the aim must be to upgrade nursing. Another is the upgrading of nursing, another is the upgrading of nursing in Sparta. It's two different things. The first is an academic risk, the second is a mixed risk, academic and local. It is obvious that we will not go to any dramatic solution before we run out of the possibilities for upgrading where they are. That means intervention at the hospital in Sparta.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-16-S1-commons.u15	That's what we're asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-16-S1-commons.u16	Except that's not technical. There's no medical school to be a university clinic. There are such problems. But to agree that our aim is to upgrade the department. This does not mean that Sparta will be without a nursing school if this solution is decided, although I tell you that beyond this decision you have referred to, there is nothing else. However, you should know that the law on higher education creates for the first time other structures such as, for example, the two-year curriculum, to which children can go from the ESDP without examinations, and they will receive European qualifications certificates for the first time. We must strengthen these very much. Too many cities think it's disgraceful. There's nothing degrading about the education of our children. We all have to agree on that. I conclude with the question you raised in the statement 'After the Minister is here, let me ask him about the others'. Let's both of us agree again, because I see a climate of consensus. This year was better than last year, last year was better than before. This is a 'blue' in one direction, which I think we all want to have. Because of administrative problems throughout Greece, there is often only one weakness to know the exact number of gaps. If I'm not mistaken, Wednesday was published in the "Government Newspaper" the possibility of getting another thousand alternates. They will cover the gaps throughout Greece. Unfortunately, many times there are difficulties in communicating on the substance with certain training directors, who, for reasons that they themselves can only understand, instead of giving us the exact number, give us much more voids. We, knowing the local conditions, think it's not that much. Sometimes we fall out and cause this problem. However, from Monday, the issue of gaps throughout Greece will be solved as a result of the day after tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-16-S1-commons.u17	Thank you both. Now I will read the questions that will not be answered because of an impediment to the competent ministers. The first one under number 147/12-11-2018, a top-stage question by the New Democracy MP, Christos Dimas, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Absorbing the resources of the NSRP 2014-2020", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Stathis Giannakides, who is on a government mission. The second question under number 143/12-11-2018 of the first cycle of the MP of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The situation of the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ) will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Stergiou Pitsirla, who is in Thessaloniki. The first one under number 148/12-11-2018, a topical question by MP I Piraeus, New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The government is calling for a selective partition of municipalities with micro-party criteria, just before the municipal elections, causing confusion and inconvenience", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of the Interior, Alexandros Haritsis. Cause: Disclosed liabilities. The third, with number 117/30-10-2018, topical question by the MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister of State, on the subject: "Directly addressing the problems of Argolida GERFA - G.N. Franciscos - 2,000 producers, 400 and 700 workers in the air," will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of State, Mr Alexandros Flamouraris. Cause: Workload. The first question with number 124/18-7-2018 about the circle of petitions and questions by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Gregorios Stoyannidis to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Amendment to Article 116 of Law 4495/2017 concerning additions or conversions that have taken place in traditional settlements such as the old city and the Samakov region in Xanthi", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of the Environment and Energy, Mr. Yorgos Stathakis, who is on a government mission abroad. The fourth under number 121/1-11-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Mixed Interdisciplinary Committee of Experts" will not be discussed. The fifth, under number 74/16-10-2018, topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaou Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "The planning for maritime education" will not be discussed. The sixth question, under number 53/11-10-2018, on the second question of the Member of Parliament I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: “Strengthening the Port House in view of the establishment of an EEZ and the extraction of hydrocarbons and natural gas”, will not be discussed. The seventh question, number 20/3-10-2018, on the second question of the President of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaou Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Turkish Challenge continues in the Aegean", will not be discussed. The second question under number 140/6-11-2018, the second question of the Independent Member of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “There will be an amendment to the Staff Regulations of 6.1714/5.1504/2016 on “Promoting employment through programmes of a public nature in the framework of the NSRP 2014-2020 for all the beneficiaries, as for the workers in municipalities and services of acceptance, asylum and management”, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The Ministry responsible is the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 19 November 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 149/12-11-2018 of the New Democracy MP, Konstantinos Karagkounis, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: ‘A good implementation of the Integrated Judicial Affairs and Criminal Justice Management System’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Laconia of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on "Delays in the conduct of patients from the EKAV in intensive treatment units due to the lack of medical personnel". 3. The Question No 153/13-11-2018 by F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisi of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health about the problems of Larissa's General Hospital. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 150/12-11-2018 by MP Achaias of New Democracy Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The former 409 Patras will remain. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 127/5-11-2018 of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Back to the state's supreme property in Dodecanese'. 3. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Procedure for the authorisation and retroactive taxation of online betting companies’. 4. The Question No 132/11-2018 by Congressman I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Evaluation of the account of the contribution of n128/75 for the help of the East Attica". 5. The Question No 136/6-11-2018 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "For redundant workers of the Associations of Agricultural Cooperatives (ESA) Larissa, Elassonas, Farsalon". 6. The question by No 128/5-11-2018 of the Greek Parliamentary II of Athens, Mr Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the radio medicine. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No. 131/6-11-2018 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Yiannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Why does the Ministry of Finance refuse to answer for the rest of the “Molyviati Fund”? 8. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: “With tied hands to the Greek Police, while the illegality rises to Greek universities.” 9. The question by number 99/24-10-2018 of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need to increase military service". 10. The Question No 55/11-10-2018 by Congressman Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga" is uncontrolled. 11. The 2/1-10-2018 topical question by Congressman Pireos of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagos to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "An urgent violence was carried out by ELAS in the demonstration of Thessaloniki against the Prespecies Agreement". 12. The Question No 109-10-2018 by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Proclamation against the Governor of the Kilkis Hospital for the rape of a worker”. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 11/1-10-2018 topical question of the Athens Parliamentary I, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Safe in the city of Athens". Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-16-S1-commons.u18	With the consent of the House at 10.53p.m. the sitting for the next Monday, November 19, 2018, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
