ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Thursday 5 July 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. - The 1908/2-7-2018 topical question by Mr. Athens, New Democracy, Mr. Olga Kefaloyannis, Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The operation of archaeological sites and museums in the middle of summer tourist season". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. - The 1903/28-6-2018 topical question by the MP Argolidas of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Giannis Manatis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Immediate need to include now the extensions of the Ascension to Ermionida and Fichtia - Mycenaeans - Monastery in Measure 4.3.1 of the Rural Development Programme (PAA)'. 3. - The 1888-26-2018 topical question by MP MEP I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Macedonian Museum and other institutions, associations and associations of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement". 4. - The 1915/3-7-2018 topical question of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport concerning the "conversion of the contracts of the 23 Aquaridic workers of EKDAP S.A. in indefinite time and their inclusion in the Staff Regulations and Collective Contracts (VA).’; 5. - The 1895-27-2018 topical question by Z' Vice-Chairman of the Parliament and MP of the Athens I of Potamio Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The situation in the area of Mars is boundary". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. - The Question by Mr Metarakis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Metarakis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on 'Reassessment of Pensions under Law 4387/2016'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. - The 1906/29-6-2018 topical question by Mr. Dramas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Charas Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: “Electronic ticket: the day of Marmota.” 3. - The 1914/3-7-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: 'Recognition by the public of the pre-service which has been placed in the private sector'. 4. - The 1812-14-2018 topical question by Piraeus I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga". 5. - The 1554/24-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hatzisavvas to the Minister of the Interior about the building for the accommodation of the Department of National Roads of Paionia. 6. - The 1151/26-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on "Questions about the agent's case on the basis of P. Kammens' revelations". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. - The 1836/19-6-2018 topical question by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: 'Mr. Syriza is presented as a Macedonian with an appeal against Greece'. 8. - The 1808/13-6-2018 topical question by Independent MEP II Athens Mr Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Continuous cases of violence in the fields of the Greek football championship". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all draft laws of the Ministry of National Defence: 1. ‘Principalisation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Defence of Denmark, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of National Defence of Portugal and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain on Multinational Cooperation for Directed Nuclear Accuracy of Air - Territory, as well as the impending 1st Amendment thereto and other provisions’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Structuring of the technical arrangement between the Ministries of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Hellenic Republic and the Portuguese Republic, as regards the Battle Formation, with the Participation of the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Portugal’. The drafts were passed on to the relevant Standing Committee, by a majority. They are being introduced into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, those who object to their ratification may be given the floor. However, because of the fact that a ministerial amendment has been tabled, 1636/87 and a parliamentary amendment, 1639/88 in the Memorandum of Understanding concerning directed air-ground ammunition, I would firstly suggest that those who voted against or expressed reservations should be placed at the beginning of the two conventions, as well as the Minister responsible for five minutes and then - I am now able to read it out - that the amendments with parliamentary representatives, rapporteurs and special speakers should be discussed, as well as the relevant ministers speaking for five minutes. For the debate on the principle, I imagine you are unanimous in agreeing. We expect the Minister to tell us about the parliamentary amendment. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I have now seen the parliamentary amendment. First of all, I have no objection, but I would prefer to see the whole thing and bring it back next week, which we have a bill again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u3	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u4	First of all, I have no objection. It seems reasonable, it's about the civilian fireworks. Of course, if they have an accident, and they have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u5	On duty.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u6	On duty. We'll see. I just want to see what impact it has, to conduct a study of the economic impact, and I am committed to my colleague...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u7	Good. Therefore, there is no placement for the parliamentary amendment. We'll discuss the rest together.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u8	Would you excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u9	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u10	I would like to say that from the General Accounting Office of the State, the amendment we tabled on the question of extending the allowance to Epirus and Macedonia is now signed. The Minister had not signed, he has signed now, and the amendment is coming. At the same time, in the amendment on the shares, which we had discussed and withdrawn, because the Minister for Civil Protection had a disagreement, there was a protest by the trade unionists of the Greek Police because there was a reduction in the level of the General 3 euros. Okay, I get it. I would like to say, however, that the soldiers of the respective ranks pay 2 000 euros reservations and the police pay 1,000 euros reservations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u11	For the border.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u12	It's irrelevant to the border. I'm talking about the shares.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u13	We are talking about the amendment that does not come.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u14	I hope that by the end of the meeting I will bring her. Because, in order to eliminate these 3 euros, we are also making a small change to the Brigadier's from 24.5 shares to 25 shares and to the sergeant from 8 shares to 8.5 shares. These grades don't exist in the Greek Police. If there is no question with the Greek police, I hope that Mr Toskas has signed Mr Toskas by the end of the meeting, otherwise the other two paragraphs of this amendment relating to our military forces, who are hostages in Turkey, will have to be tabled as parliamentary amendments in order to move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u15	I now - and not only myself, but also all those present in the Chamber - have just one ministerial amendment on the possibility of posting teachers, who are the wives of the military.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u16	There's two more coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u17	The other two you say have not even been filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u18	No, they were filed and retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u19	No, they have not been submitted to the Bureau. To say they've been filed, I have to have them. I'm telling you, I don't have them. Therefore, they have not been submitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u20	These are the amendments we had discussed in the previous committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u21	They didn't testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u22	Minister, here's what I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u23	These are the amendments that we have withdrawn, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u24	You're talking about the committee now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u25	In the committee, we tabled them in the previous bill, and Mrs Canelle and other colleagues have asked that we withdraw them to discuss them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u26	No, Minister, some of you have been confused. Mr. President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u27	Wait a minute, Mrs. Canelle.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u28	Because he referred to me, I'm asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u29	For dividends, Mrs. Canelley.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u30	There was no such amendment. Look at the Minutes. Minister, there was no amendment to the dividends at the last sitting. He was Mr. Kouvelis on the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u31	No, I'm not talking about this committee. I am talking about the previous bill, which we had in as an article, and you have asked us to withdraw it to think about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u32	Wonderful. But today, you can tell me by what procedure you tell us that until the end of the meeting...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u33	Mrs. Kanelli, I'll clarify that. Mr President, I would like to ask you to begin by congratulating the Minister on his excellent report. I assume that it will be widely accepted by the House. For the other two things you say, if it is not an extremely urgent matter and given that next week you will have another bill of your own, I would like to ask you not to mess with the story and bring it up next week, because today we have a limited period of time, with the waiver of immunities, which must begin at a certain time. If this is an extremely urgent matter, after the debate on it has been concluded, we will see whether we can have one of the two. Otherwise, I'd like to beg...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, it is two very simple, which we have all agreed together. One is the extension of the border benefit to Epirus and Macedonia, which all the Members have asked for. Of all the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u35	All right, when they come, after we finish the debate, before I close the sitting, we will see whether it is something that everyone unanimously accepts in the Chamber. Well, then, all right. Otherwise, I would like to ask him to go next week.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u36	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u37	Mrs. Canelle, when you speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, I object to what you have just said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u39	About what? I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u40	You said, when she'll be brought in to discuss it, if everyone agrees. I say to you that I agree, and I do not agree with the process of running the meeting, to have an amendment on the pretext that we have asked for it and we shall vote on it. For if we start accepting it, when we complain about tabling amendments...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u41	Good. Let us move on to what we have in front of us and when the time comes, we will see how we deal with this if we need to handle it. As far as I can see, the parties' positions on these were as follows: SYRIZA was in favour. The New Democracy was reserved. The Democratic Reconciliation was a reservation. Golden Dawn was against it. The Communist Party was against it. The ANELs, the Potami and the Centro Association were in favour. In the order in which they are here, they will also be given the floor. Therefore, from New Democracy, it is Mr Athanasios Davakis. Mr Davakis, you have the floor for five minutes to talk about the contract and about the already known and tabled amendment that I have read. Only for her. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, we have made a reservation on the sanctions for the two conventions, given that various issues have arisen during the debate, attended by the Deputy Minister. In order to be better organized, we have asked, like most colleagues in this Chamber, for the reservation. We are positive about sanctions. But a number of issues arise. One of these issues is our country's position in an international environment by updating the Skopje agreement and the general relationship of how the country can oppose a veto, a veto, on issues, as provided for in Article 14, to include new members in this memorandum of understanding, which we are dominating today. I will give you an example: If Skopje asks as a working hypothesis for future participation in a specific multinational alliance, what are we going to do? You know what we do in the first contract now. With Article 2(1) of the Agreement, the country cannot refuse to refuse any request by a Member State of the alliance, which will come from this agreement. So you realise that there is one issue there, and that is a glorious field about the various cubes and - I would say - recurring, which the government partner, co-government Mr Kammenos, has already suffered in relation to this agreement. Indeed, today, Minister of the Government in question said that this agreement had no effect. Secondly, the last case of the ratification of the Convention we have is the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment, the change in the term of office of the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment. The argument for transparency is indissolved and we agree with it. But there is also the institutional memory and experience of GFCM officials, which is completely undermined by this regulation. And we would like, as we are negative, to have a better approach on behalf of the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence. When I say a better approach, I would like to say - and I remind you - that these officials, whose residence limit is now set in the GDR, have an excellent experience, have a capacity to negotiate with corporate colossal companies, as we all know, and people who have the specialty in promoting products and have, of course, the problem of opaqueness or corruption. But if that is the case, then the law that we recently voted together, Mr. 4494/2017, on a specific body to combat opacity, what is it, Minister? We could therefore, energised by this law, cover the issues of transparency and not undermine the institutional memory, the experience, the ability and all these elements that make up excellent GDR officials, unless you have some specific elements to say. I think, in other words, - and I repeat my position - that any issue of legitimisation on the ground and on the basis of transparency is indissociable. But I repeat that, at last, the continuity of the state should not be self-evident in matters relating to experience, tradition and institutional memory. Because here we are talking about and if you replace the X strain on the basis of this amendment, this strain as infinite will have a relevant connection with the one he has restored to tell him who is Mr. Kammenos, a arms dealer, who is Mr. X, Mr. P. I think you should see it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u43	The civil servants are equating with the soldiers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u44	It doesn't play any part.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u45	Don't make a dialogue between you two.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u46	Also, I think that... I shall also speak about the amendment. Or do you want to talk about the amendment later?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u47	We said, together, everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u48	It's all together.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u49	You will also talk about the amendment that has been tabled with a short time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u50	Arrangements for teachers interacting with spouses-military staff are a case that no member of any wing can deny. I would like to remind you that some years ago, when I was a State Secretary of State for National Defence, we were guilty of trying and asked the Army General Staff - from where most of the cases are, most of the members who are applying for this regulation, and I think it is right that the direction and choice you make and institutionalise - should tell us the cases that have not been satisfied. This list was sent to the then Minister of Education in order to give the most appropriate regulation and to meet all requests. However, there has been no legislative regulation. After all, we did not have as a State Secretary and a legislative initiative, as you know, Mr President. In any case, however, I believe that this is positive and will be counted against the very least positive that your government has adopted. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u51	Good. Mr. Loverdos has the floor now. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Loverdo. You can also speak of the amendment in a relative comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, thank you. I was generally in favour of the committee as well, and I kept my guard for the well-known reasons. I would like to repeat to Parliament that, following the debate that we had with Mr Kouvelis in the committee and in both cases that we now have here, in the Memorandum of Understanding in one case signed in 2016, but also in the sanction for forming a battle involving four states in the other case, we have no reason to say 'no'. Nor do we see any reason to say 'no' to Article 3 of the draft law, which incorporates an amendment tabled to the Standing Committee. And we had that in a way that we had commented on. As far as today's amendment is concerned, I have to say, like Mr Davakis - I imagine the Minister - that it is necessary. I remember her as a topic and as a Minister of Education. Finally, a solution is given to the historical attempt to resolve it, in addition to the efforts that have been made and then. I note that it has recently been launched by the Association of Military Regional Units of Larissa, which is part of POMENS, such an effort, especially after the Magnesia Prefecture, because it has as its prefecture a number of difficulties with its islands. The Volos Union was also given such a request and such a message through the POMENS centrally and to our side. I think it gives a solution to the problem that Mr Barriots, too, as a Member of the Democratic Union and of the Change Movement, had put in Parliament and had received a positive answer. So the time has come for the solution, and we have no objections, obviously. By exploiting - not - yes - the presence of the Minister here, I would like to ask him a question, and I would ask him to answer us, because, with his intercourses and his members coming out of the media, confusion arises. Minister, you are well aware of the special procedures that have to do with NATO, when a new, candidate Member State is invited. You know very well that on 11 July in Summit, at the NATO summit in Brussels, FYROM will be invited not to join, but to start the processes. And if the old experience is repeated, the Prime Minister of this country will go there to address the twenty-eight. That's how it used to happen. I don't know if anything else is going to happen now. We'll see. From that day on - you will be there too, we have learned - the accession negotiations are starting on defence, rights and obligations - we have very much experience in the issues of NATO enlargements, we know them well - short negotiations, which in two, three, four months usually close. So we are talking about something that will, in the next few months, be completed in the next few months. The relevant protocol is then drawn up, signed by the Permanent Representatives and entered for ratification in the Member States. I said this in my speech to the House during the days when we discussed the motion of censure. So I was saying - and there is no possibility of denying this - that, once the agreement has been signed, it produces some legal works - and I say'some', because this contains guarantees which extend it to time - what I have said, and certainly a lot of political successes. When this process develops, they sign the protocols and they turn to ratification from country to country, you realize that the margins then become narrow for anyone. Yesterday you once again raised one more confusion. What you said this morning was different from what you said at night. Now we're at the National Representation and you're coming to the National Representation. Now, now that you are here, give a clear answer to these issues that I have mentioned, and at least make your position quite clear to the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u53	We move on to the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Nikolaos Kuzilos. Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor. You will also be placed on the amendment already tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u54	The Memorandum on Multinational Cooperation and Directed Precision Fires is a formal ratification, in the context of NATO widely. Our position on NATO is of course known. We do not think that they are our friends or that they serve our national interests. This penalty is for directed ammunition. It is intended to facilitate the head of nation or service to auditors for access to specific data. That is to say, everyone who ratifys this agreement will be able to have data on a very sensitive piece, such as the directional air-ground precision missiles or information for inspection, where there are provisions for exchanges of information and data. Here are the following questions: We have seen in many sanctions an extension and other countries enter. And we say, Skopje. Turkey? Should we put in Albania that we have heard that you have tried to put it in the European Union and NATO? Of course we are negative in this wide-ranging form.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u55	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u56	In the European Union. From there we will then go to the next penalty to see what happens to the Eurostraat with this sanction. I should like to continue my position on the next ratification, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u57	As I said for both of us and for the amendment already tabled. That's why I'm leaving a little more time than five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u58	Now in relation to the second sanction, the SIAF battle form. It is a question of general conditions for the formation of an amphibian battle-shaped European Union. I would like to say here that we are completely opposed to this. We've said that a thousand times. I should also like to stress that, as we have said in committee, these formations have a history. All of this starts at the 1999 NATO Summit in Washington, where the mission of troops across the world has been institutionalised with various pretexts, such as terrorism, economic hardship, the collapse of political order, the disruption of vital resources. In other words, NATO - and now the Eurocrat, the European Union - has legalised the intervention in which the interests of the great are affected. Where America's interests are affected, it can in fact intervene. It is very simple what NATO puts. With the creation of the European Union and the Eurostar it has been decided exactly the same. The European Union, on the pretext of addressing the threats and effective crisis management in time, decided and proceeded in 2003 in the framework of the European Union's common security and defence policy, which is against our national interests. I'll explain right away why. Through such policies, the European Union - which is trying and everyone knows its role, controlling two - three large states and the rest of the world do not really exist - and NATO can interfere in any territory not only in Europe, but throughout the world. Do we accept that? Is that national sovereignty, a national independent state, to accept and sign that we can or can intervene with NATO? I am telling you again the pretext he has put: To deal with the threats of crisis and the collapse of political order, terrorism, economic hardship, life-threatening, vital resources. Do you all accept this in a country, in a sovereign state? I'm on it. In this case, for SIAF, it will be possible for crisis prevention, stabilisation, reconstruction to intervene in our country as well. Do we accept it? That's what we do today. All this can be validated by a sovereign state, as you say we are? As opposition, SYRIZA and ANEL, all of this, would you accept it? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Remember what the purpose of NATO was in 1949? To prevent Europe from being a communist danger. But now, what we see is that the terms have been reversed and what NATO is doing is defending the interests of the new order in globalisation. It defends the interests of globalisation. What we want to say is that - and we will also look at parliamentary scrutiny for this, ask questions and get answers - with the events currently in Macedonia and Albania can we, as NATO and the European Union, intervene in possible haircuts or dividends? Is it a cause to intervene? Can we intervene? Because, if we can, let's go to other data...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Kouzeli, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u60	I shall conclude, Mr President, but there are two sanctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u61	Yes, I've already left you, as you can see, seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u62	In conclusion, let us say that we do not believe in Europe where you believe, in what is currently in place, in Europe with the sovereignty of Germany. We believe in the Europe of nations and we will never stop fighting for a great Greece in a free Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u63	We conclude with Mrs Liana Kanelle from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start with the amendments to make it easier for you, and of course, we will say 'yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u65	We're talking now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u66	For today's testified. One is the amendment for teachers accompanying spouses and relatives. There is an objection which you have not taken into consideration, and I would ask you, in your speech, to put on the one you have incorporated, namely the civil servants in the GDR who cannot be at a different time than the military, appointed after six years. Don't waste time now to analyze it. There we had an objection and we raised it, which is why I had reservations about the plenary. Now you've incorporated it in it, and I'm obliged to put myself in it, too. You have no clarification as to the management staff. Because, if it relates to all the staff of the OSCE, that is where we will have a problem. You're going to hit, supposedly, a possibility of creating suspects by definition. It's disgraceful to say this, as we speak, between civilian and military personnel that, if you stay for a long time, you are corrupted. In other words, there should normally be no such thing as thinking, but the way mentality is offensive even to talk about it. But it is intact now of the regime in which we live as we live, not here, but in urban culture: "Don't stay and get acquaintances and because you'll get acquaintances, you'll get to know them." But when we talk about civilian staff, we say this: it can be done tomorrow morning on the pretext that it cannot serve there and start a parallel flow and pay it off by a political staff who has no privileges. I would like a clarification on that. I'll accept to hear it. It's forcedly contained in it, that's what I'm saying. In any case, we will not vote, but we will say 'no' to these two conventions that you have brought, which take the form of law. I do not want to repeat everything I have said. Our position is well known and, unfortunately, historically justified. And that, in these days, seems more than anything, because we should not be in a formation like NATO. We have nothing to gain. We send soldiers to eleven of the twenty-two missions that he has in the world, cost us the giggian sunshine, do what they want and literally eat at the heavy insult that the country is hinges in the western Balkans. The Western Balkans were in Yugoslavia. That is what you now say 'the Western Balkans', with the exception of Albania. What else do you think? You are talking about the fragmented NATO bombardment - and not only - of European ethnic cleansing ups of nationalism, until they are cut to pieces, protectionism. Mr President, I was amazed to read - I am telling you that you want to unify the Western Balkans under the umbrella of NATO - that all the non-memorandum, social and non-Skopje, including the former President of the Kosovo Parliament, his wife and children, his former Prime Minister, his wife and his children, and conceived artists, athletes, managers and managers, have called for Albanian citizenship in time in Kosovo. I say this to preside over the world, which listens to what NATO integration means in the Balkans and designations such as 'the Western Balkans', 'North Macedonia', 'North Epirus', 'North Cyprus'. Mr Kotzias also comes and says that we have similarities to Vietnam in the Aegean for the law of the sea. I hear here today that there is no need for NATO to exist, because the communist danger has evolved. I know that Mr Trump said to Mr McCrone: 'Do you not give up on coming with us, leaving the European Union?' I say this now because Mr Moscovissi came yesterday - not to say French - so that people understand what we are coming here and voting, that is to say we will also find them with Putin, so that we can see who will build the Shia or the Sunni front down with Iran, with Turkey, with Saudi Arabia, with Lebanon. Are there simple questions: Does Lebanon have EOZ? Is Gaza an EOZ? Have the Palestinians recognised rights in the sea front area? We are not talking about that at all. We never open any of this type of conversation. We open negotiations with valid or invalid signatures, with a hundred or fifty or eighty, polling, elections, elections, with purpose. I come to tell you this: Go now and take part in a process to get missiles on the Air Force, the so-called 'directed ammunition'. Good! Who tells you he doesn't need it? We'll tell you first. I'm talking to the soldiers. Sarx of the flesh of the Greek people is. We know their needs. Do we have a war industry? Couldn't we make them ourselves and not enter such alliances? Don't we have scientific potential? We have people who have a mind, the possibility, who are trained by the Greek people themselves at heavy cost. Don't we have natural resources? Don't we have any expertise? Couldn't we have jobs and exploited people and not send them for a extra title or a portion on 11 foreign missions? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We have any institutes here that tell us what we can and what we can't make ourselves? And we're going to go to the one dragon where they serve their own interests? So we are saying 'no' to this agreement for these reasons that I am telling you, which are astonished by our more general political position with regard to NATO. You know what? One question arises from this battle form, as NATO's anti-missile shield is completed or is to be completed. So we've been living for days, what can I tell you? Just before Cuba! In NATO's rhetoric, we live a few days when the missiles come and we need to build an anti-missile shield from Estonia down to Syria and go all over the body of Greece! We hear statements that NATO will save the economic disaster that the Skopje people live in. NATO's coming to invest there like Bondsteel. So, with the bases? Do you want to tell me that the tourism and wealth of Crete has increased because it has the basis of Souda? Fly Greek doesn't enter Souda. Based on the contract, if something breaks down, a Greek plumber cannot enter! But they can bring anyone who wants from any part of the earth. Guantánamo was thirteenth in Europe. Thirteen Guantánamo! Fifteen questions we have asked in the previous years about Guantánamo, of which Souda was not excluded, and have moved from here forward and back terrorists. When did the people get rich when NATO went there? Do you know what NATO produces - we insist is visible - wherever it goes, wherever it turns out? Refugee. With regard to the recent proposal in Albania to get refugees, now that the Germans and the others, Mr Kurts - who has the least, but who is the most fascist of all and wants to re-establish the Austro-Cypriot empire on the bodies of immigrants, why have we turned the history back a hundred years - you know what he said about the preparations? He had made ground preparations to welcome one million Albanians from Kosovo. I mean, the play...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u67	Mrs. Canelle, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u68	I shall conclude, Mr President. Listen to me. Here you must come one day with an account and answer how much it gives us for this war preparation and for whom and NATO and the European Union. Because we need to know the price of the United States congratulations for Greece that is hungry, which does not have to eat, which cannot satisfy even their military and military needs as civilian staff and give them their reward. Why do we need to know how much, in the horn, this sum for NATO is total and does not people have to eat and treat refugees as non-critical material, which NATO must take care of? Be careful, people, living, refugees, are not vital. They have no life, they are'res', they are obviously objects, I mean non-critical goods, objects.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u69	Mrs. Canelle, I can't give you any more time. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u70	We therefore vote 'no'. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u71	Before giving the floor to the Minister, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights forwarded to the House on 1-6-2018: Criminal forensics, concerning the Deputy Minister and Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Olga Gerovas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, I would like to take the floor on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u73	What amendment are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, on the amendment we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u75	Your rapporteur has been posted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u76	It wasn't placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u77	He said he was 'in favor'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u78	You said you would give us the floor on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u79	Here, Mr Pappa, you have the floor for two minutes only for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Loverdos can speak at all times as a PASOK Parliamentary Representative and Christos Pappas...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u81	Your rapporteur, too, has spoken more generally.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u82	Look, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u83	Look, you are taking the floor under the Rules of Procedure, which you know very well, perhaps better than me, for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u84	I don't believe you, Mr. President. You're charming!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u85	In the two minutes I give you, say you want to, but for two minutes please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u86	Minister, with regard to the amendment which you are about to put on the border, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as long as these areas have not been in force at the border, they have not been at the border. As far as primary and secondary teachers are concerned, for the spouses to co-operate, we could not agree. It is a constant request to the Armed Forces, which the speakers have asked many times in the context of parliamentary control. However, I would like to say - and perhaps you will bring a second amendment to this today - for administrative staff who are in schools and who are not understood as teachers. In other words, we have secretaries, we have other staff, who are part of primary and secondary education and who will not benefit from this privilege. So you must look at it and bring it soon, perhaps another amendment or withdraw it and include it. As far as NATO is concerned, I would like to point out, Mr President, and it is an opportunity to say that we, the rulers, as loyal allies of the North Atlantic terrorist alliance, who currently does not serve any Greek national interest, are offering over and above the cap set by the President of the United States itself, namely 2% of GDP. In other words, you are offering 2.4% more than GDP to other countries that do not. Greece is giving more than Germany is contributing to NATO. In 2017, we gave $6 billion. For what? To serve the interests of whom? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. For us the only interests defended by the European Union and NATO are the interests of various tugs, large multinational companies, industrial weapons, banking agents, sticks and clubs, where you are being fed. We admired you all yesterday, you of the democratic arch, in the US Embassy, where you stood in line for a photo, to worship the praitor, the ambassador of the United States, Mr Piat. But that's who you are. You're with allies, anticipating that you'll be equal managers of things and loyal submissives of them. We are with Greece and the Greek people, who are struggling in the streets and squares. That's why we're going to win. Greece will win.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u87	Minister, you have the floor on the two conventions, on the tabling of an amendment on the training wives of soldiers. I have been informed that you also have a legislative improvement. With a relative tolerance and in your time you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. I will begin with the legislative improvement so that we can get to grips with each other better. Following a correct comment from colleagues from SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, as well as those said by Mrs Kanelle, in Amendment No 1634 and Amendment No 86/28-6-2018, referring to the staff of the FAO, paragraph 4A added by the above amendment to Article 72 of Law 3433/2006 (A 20) after the words ‘policy employees’, the words ‘except for staff specialties which are not involved in procurements’ are added. That is to say, quite rightly, the driver or the plumber or maintainer, who is in the IAEA, is not involved in both the contracts and the supplies. We cannot give him the time limit of three years, it is not right. I accept it. We're making this legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u89	Here I want to begin by telling you that we do not consider any suspects, nor civilian personnel, nor military personnel. But when military personnel for reasons of transparency - the New Democracy had introduced it - we have three years to stay in the IAEA in order to prevent this friction, particularly with arms dealers, with companies and can have a stay of this kind that will allow them to do their work properly, without any pressure being placed, because of their three-year term of office, it is not possible for politicians to leave them for twenty-five and thirty years. Of the eighteen proceedings, which we sent to the prosecutor's office in corruption, you will see that in most councils the political officers were fifteen and twenty years and had contacts with all the people involved, and the military were new. So what did we say? We have said to equate things without this having any reproach on the part of the political workers. Those who manage contracts, whether they are military or political, should remain at the same time in the IAEA. That is to say, the possibility of having a friction that is longer and longer than those who have special interests. I think you should be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u90	They'll be emptying entire sections.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u91	Well, they'd better clear the department than get the district attorneys filled up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u92	Then why did you bring Law 4494 on corruption?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u93	So, can I tell you something? Because you insist. Of the eighteen cases that we went to the Corruption Prosecutor, all of them were officials who were more than fifteen years left in the OLAF. And if you see the dialogues that were going on... so I can't expose the employee to this danger. Once I see him as the same as the military, as honest as the military, I can't let the military leave him three years and the civil servant...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u94	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u95	Listen, Mr. Davaki. When you come well, bring back those who managed twenty-five years of their contracts and trust them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u96	But you've passed a law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Davakis, you have. Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u98	Listen, because you insist...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Davaki, excuse me. You're an old parliamentarian. A dialogue with the Minister? Whatever he wants to say, as every colleague does.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u100	The Internal Affairs, which was done by the law you finally voted on, suggests this change. Do you understand what I'm saying? So with the law that we voted on and did internal affairs, home affairs comes and tells us...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u101	That's not what the law said in it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u102	I can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u103	Me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u104	If he opens up a dialogue, we'll open up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Davakis, this is the last time, excuse me for commenting!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u106	So I move on to the remarks on the convention, beyond the amendment, on the question of co-responsibility. At the meeting with the teachers we fought with the Ministry of Education, because especially in prefectures which have a very large presence of soldiers, such as in the Prefecture of Evros, we saw the phenomenon of the husband being in northern Evros, and the wife in Samothraki and was thought to be working together. This has been addressed with this amendment and I thank colleagues from all sides who have supported this amendment. I haven't seen anything about the employees. I'll see who they are and how many. I have the impression, however, that the administrative staff are covered by the law on training, beyond teachers. If that's not the case, and there's a matter of employees from the Ministry of Education, we'll see. Now, because things have been heard about who is going to join these groups, I would like to say that it is not the case that anyone who wants to get in and who wants to go out and ask no one. I will read you a little about NATO. The same agreement in Article 11(2) states: ‘Where end-user documents are in force, approval shall now be granted by the competent national export control authorities’. What does that mean? That the national authority at any time may exclude any other State. So there's no such thing. 14.2 in the "Insert of new participants" contract says: "The requesting state of NATO will become a participant once an amendment to this MOU has been signed by the state concerned and all participants". There is the principle of unanimity in NATO. If there is even one who disagrees, the entry of a new state cannot go any further, even into a branch force. Since you have referred to the European Union, I should like to tell you that the European Union is completely different. In the European Union, I read to you SIAF: ‘In the event of a involvement in European Union crisis management operations, the contributing States retain the right to either confirm or deny their contribution’. No one's compelled us to go. There we can refuse, as well as raise a point for any participant. It also states: ‘The contributing States shall be responsible for the evaluation and certification of their military units and parts issued to the EUABG, in accordance with the standards and criteria approved by the European Union, and for the issue of a corresponding letter - a certificate of the POC State’. So, to be clear, it is not possible for those forces to enter anyone without the agreement of the already participating states. And I really heard it from you, and we know your position, Mr. Pappa. I heard it from the New Democracy. I would like to remind you that Skopje as FYROM entered Afghanistan on our own government, on the Government of the New Democracy. I was with Vangelis Meimarakis at that time as President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and Mr Meimarakis as Minister, where we visited the Greek power in Afghanistan and in the airport's next building was FYROM. Together, the mission was made. I'm telling you, because now I see that you're a little more rebels...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u107	Article 2 of the Prespecies Agreement says what? Why are you mistaken...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u108	So let's go to Prespes too, because he asked...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u109	Minister, you are addressing the House through the Bureau. Don't go back to a colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, on the subject of NATO, I see quite a great deal of concern. In NATO, the Prespecies Agreement, as has been signed as a draft agreement by the Ministers, has nothing to do with it. The statements made by NATO Secretary-General, Mr Stoltenberg, and also by the Prime Minister here, confirming that in order to have any effect on NATO, the following steps should have been completed: Elections, in order to change the majority in Parliament, so that the President of the Republic does not ratify the ratification of the agreement passed by Parliament, a referendum, a positive result of the referendum, a new parliament with a majority of such a majority that approves constitutional changes, ratification of constitutional changes, and then ratification of the agreement in FYROM and Greece, and when all this ends, then the invitation from NATO will come into effect. You, Mr. Loverdo, know NATO issues very well. You also handle them in the parliamentary assembly. You will know that Article 2 only refers to preliminary talks, but on the subject of FYROM they will not start now. They have begun with the 1999 Washington decision with Kostas Simitis Prime Minister Kostas. Then FYROM's NATO accession talks began. It was then the agreement of the leaders and, of course, it was nineteen years and these talks did not end up anywhere. So do not confuse with the coexistence in NATO and the summit, because Mr Zaev is only called there as Prime Minister of the country participating in the Afghanistan mission. He will not participate in the plannary either, he will not take a family photo, nor will there be any other announcement of the Secretary-General's communique, which has a text that we have already seen and stated in means that an invitation will be made following the prerequisites described in the draft agreement. As far as I'm concerned, it's perfectly clear, Mr. Loverdos. When he comes with 180 and if he comes with 180 votes here, your attitude is a question. I'm saying that to close this issue too. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say that as regards the amendment tabled, as I am now told by the Secretariat-General...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u111	Before you put it, why does it have to be recorded in the Minutes, I think it goes without saying - Mrs Canelles, what you said - that the process of opposition does not accept the two amendments. Am I right to formulate it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u112	Right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u113	Therefore, according to the parliamentary order, the two amendments are being discussed, which we shall be going backwards now. The Minister will analyse them...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u114	A ministerial amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u115	That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u116	Good. A ministerial, a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u117	There are two of them, Minister. Look, when I'm in the Bureau, don't tell me about parliamentarians. That is the trick: we put a Member and sign the amendment that the Minister has told him. Let it go. These are two amendments. I'm ticking the time. So develop the amendments for three minutes and I will go backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, I am abstaining from the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u119	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u120	I leave the vote because it is...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u121	Mrs. Canelle, when I gave you the floor, you'd say that and leave. Let us not interrupt the sitting every three and a little while and let old colleagues do so. Mr President, you have three minutes, bearing in mind that all opposition does not accept the introduction of the two amendments. It's with the parliamentary majority of SYRIZA - ANEL. Place for three minutes for the amendments and we'll go backwards. I will ask each party to place it separately so that, if it wishes, it can speak on the substance or to do what Mrs Kanelli has said, which will give its opinion and withdraw. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u122	I have the impression, Mr President, that when colleagues listen to the content of the amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u123	Yeah, you didn't hear my call, too. It is a pity that an amendment which might have been broadly accepted might be voted on today and you do not bring it next week.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, I have been with Mr Juliarakis all night until this morning. I would ask that you sign the amendment to justify these people. For Christ's sake! We were fighting, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u125	Here, you have the reason to develop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Juliarakis was in negotiations, he had other things in his mind, and he had Mr. Moscovici here too. What can we do? We've been fighting it for two weeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u127	Good. You have the floor for three minutes to develop the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u128	In accordance with the amendment, the first subparagraph of paragraph C of Article 127 of Law 4472/2017 is replaced by the following: ‘E. The executives of the Armed Forces and the Port Corps - Greek Coast Guard, as well as the Hellenic Police and the Fire Corps serving within the geographical limits of the Northern Aegean Region, the Evros Regional Unit, the South Aegean Region - only formerly N. Dodecanese - as well as those of the Armed Forces serving in the Pre-covering Units of the Continental Front - Epirus, Macedonia and Thrace - are granted a monthly allowance of EUR 100 on the island of Skyros and the local communities of Ziros and Palaikas of the Municipality of Sitia. What are we doing here? Here we add Epirus and Macedonia to the border allowance to be paid by the military, which we have power to do from Parliament. I don't think there's anyone who disagrees. It was unfair, in other words, to take it to Evros - which is, of course, a border - in the northern Aegean and the people who serve in Macedonia and the continent should not take it. I don't think anyone's gonna argue. The second amendment concerns - and this is why it is a little urgent - the military personnel of the Armed Forces who are, at peacetime, under conditions of temporary detention. He's referring to the two soldiers. Friday we have the conversation in court. I cannot let the court become a court without having passed this amendment, which could possibly help their lawyers to free the two soldiers. That is why it is urgent and I therefore ask the House, because of this particularity, to help. I read it: 'In the military personnel of the Armed Forces who in peacetime are under temporary detention, imprisonment or hostage in a foreign country, it is possible, by way of derogation, to pay special monthly compensation abroad for as long as these conditions last. The payment of the compensation shall be made by a joint decision of the Ministers for National Defence and Finance, upon a recommendation from their General Staff and assent of the General Staff Board. Such compensation shall amount to the amount of the alien allowance received by the military of the same degree as that served in the country of temporary detention, imprisonment or hostage and shall be subject to the same taxes and reservations. For a period of 15 (15) days or more, the compensation shall be paid in full and for a period of less than 15 (15) days it shall be paid to half. The Joint Decision of the Ministers for National Defence and Economic Affairs may refer to the start of the Treaties referred to in the first subparagraph.’; What are we doing here? We tell the court, where our soldiers will go on Friday, that these soldiers are serving abroad in Turkey. So they have a permanent address. So the court's excuse is not going to lose them tomorrow morning. That is why I would ask that this amendment be voted on. Regarding the issue of the Building Cooperative of the Permanent Officers of the Hellenic Army - OOMAPS - its oversight remains at the Ministry of National Defence and continues to be governed by the provisions of ar. Regulation (EEC) No 564/1968, 27.7.1968, 27.7.2020. Within the last quarter of the period referred to in the preceding subparagraph, the Governing Council of the UCLAF shall reconstitute its rules of procedure with the provisions of Article 39 of Law 4030/2011. Upon the deposit of the new statute in the court concerned, the supervision of the OEMA shall be carried out at the Ministry of Finance and the General Assembly shall be convened. Why are we doing this? So that we can regulate the issues of UCLAF and get their benefits from the military. It is a purely formal matter, which is about the payment of the sums due. That's why I'm bringing them. They are not political issues nor can they overthrow anything. I apologise - if you like - why we have not been able to complete the proceedings before. We've done everything about it. I would ask the Bureau and the President of the Council to accept this amendment. It is the parliamentary amendment that we have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u129	It's been distributed. The two amendments will be adopted by the Parliamentary Representatives, by way of derogation. I'm taking the blame. As I see that some parties are in the Chamber, the rapporteurs and their speakers, while their parliamentary representative is lacking, I will give the floor to the speaker or the rapporteur. But I would ask that the parliamentary representatives be. Mr. Xydakis, even if you agree, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u130	Let's go in reverse.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u131	Well, you're talking last. I'll take it backwards, then. Mr. Big-fashioned isn't here. Mr. Saridis is here, though. Here, for three minutes you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, thank you very much. The Centro Association is not going to be in the committees, Minister, to back up a memorandum of ratification, because from what we understand you are using it to bring amendments and so you do not even give us the right to be able to place ourselves. Mr President, I should like to tell you that the Central Association of Members of the Committees in its amendment, which had been attached to the committees and had entered the bill, had kept its reservations, clearly, to see it and be placed here today and at the same time we have four other amendments. We could not be negative in the amendment to the joint service of the teachers of the military and the spouses. It is an amendment, however, which, from its application, will be judged, since we have two different ministries with a different philosophy in dealing with either a transfer or a secondment and given that the transfers of the permanent military personnel are carried out in July and August, so the Ministry of Education should quickly show reflexively as to how it will deal with the similar secondments of personnel belonging to it. As regards, now, the amendment to the GFCM staff and following the clarifications given to us by the Minister, namely that it does not concern the technical staff involved, we in the Central Association will support it, because we believe that there is a major issue in transparency and safeguarding the national interest. The amendment to our military allowance in the areas where Macedonia and Epirus are now included clearly and we will support it. Now, with regard to the amendment to the two of our soldiers, two different articles, two different topics, are being inserted into an amendment. Mr Minister, you want us to vote on this amendment. So why don't you break it? Why didn't you tell your Member to table two amendments? Why, Minister, did you not take one issue to differentiate it from the other? I'm talking about the issue of the two soldiers, who come along with the issue of building partnership...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u133	To get his money, people. Don't you want them to be taken?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u134	Let it go if we want to get it. We have two different issues. I'm not telling you what I'm going to vote for. I haven't told you what I'm going to vote for yet, Minister. I have told you that what is happening is not right. That's what I'm telling you. I haven't told you what I'm going to vote for. And we cannot, because you may think that you should support your position, come to a plenary today where we are discussing sanctions and have five different amendments. The Centro Association will support it, Minister, because it cannot be otherwise done in order to give an argument to the two soldiers, but it denounces the way in which we legislate in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u135	Mrs. Canelle, in turn. Let's go back, like I said. Because I was informed you asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u136	I have no objections. I wanted to let you know for another reason, but that's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u137	Good. No problem. Mr. Danellis now has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, regardless of whether or not we agree with the content of the amendments, we cannot legislate like this. Three, four days ago, we discussed these issues in committee. Was it so difficult to have the amendments then? Apart from that, next week it is well known that we will have a draft law adopted by your ministry in plenary. Can't we transfer them? Is it so necessary that, today, in this procedure again, the bad legalization is done? In this sense, you are making it very difficult for us to vote in favour of something we agree on, because of the way we legislate. And this process is constantly being done, and it is being penalised by international agreements. We are unable to follow these paces and this way of legislating.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Mr. Papachristopoulos is missing. We're moving on with Mr. Katsiki. Here, Mr Katsiki, you have the floor for three minutes, for the two amendments, not for the one we are discussing, only for the two new ones, the one you and the other, the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u140	Good. After all, we also have in the committee, which we have drawn up and discussed this draft law, to vote for an amendment. I am referring to that of Mrs Gerovas, which I will not repeat here. As far as my own is concerned - let me start with it - Mr President, I would like to say that you have tried, in advance, with the comment you have made, to reduce my own work by telling the Minister of National Defence that it was his amendment and not mine. In any case, I am content with what the Minister for National Defence said about its content. It is imperative to support this group of two Greek soldiers, who are in high-security prison, and financially, with what this implies for themselves and for their families, but also as an element that can give positive legal benefits to the development of the case. I'm referring to the court field. So now I come to the second amendment, by Mr Gavroglou, on the Ministry of Education, to which you will obviously refer, Mr President, as a second amendment, or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u141	The ministerial, ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u142	The second amendment is the ministerial amendment. For what you are saying, Mr Gavroglou, about the secondments, the debate is already over. As far as I understand it, it was supported by all parties. It's the ministerial and yours. It's the Minister's statement about the benefit at the border.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u143	So we're talking about the allowance at the border. I am content with what the Minister said. I agree, I am writing, I am voting in favour and I have nothing else to say and, for the time economy, which you yourself referred to earlier, we need to look closely at in the light of the fact that the House will need to be given parliamentary control. Of course, Mr President, let me conclude by saying that I have heard this first of all, that we should discuss the draft legislation, follow it, and that there is no time to conclude, because parliamentary control is then followed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u144	Mr Katsiki, if I would strictly observe the Rules of Procedure, we should be done already. That is in response to your last comment. In response to your first remark, no matter who sits in the cabinet, because I am an old parliamentarian, I am always on the side of Members of all the parties. But you have not at the outset observed the position of your Minister, who spoke of two ministerial amendments, of which he was a minister and a Member. At the place of the Ministerial Parliamentary Assembly. So I reasonably came to the conclusion. In no case did I want to hurt you or reduce you. Let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u145	The Minister of National Defence wanted to testify another minister. In view of your remarks, he obviously decided to be a minister, and the other was mine, the parliamentary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u146	All right, Mr. Katsiki, we all understood. Let's move on. Mrs Lianna Kanelly has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u147	I'll save your time by saying three things. Firstly, in the bill you have already incorporated, after the change you have made, technical services and clarification, exceptionally and only in this integrated article, we will say 'yes'. The rest is 'no'. Secondly, we will say yes to your allowance for the border regions. Is it possible to expect, under the outrageous procedure of tabling amendments, to stay here, which is also mentioned by the Bureau, that we will be subject to extortion and that we tell you not to give the hundreds you say you will give the appointed soldiers? But if you brought it in otherwise, we would discuss whether the hundreds are enough, if the hundreds are enough, what should be and how many others it should include. But that's how you smear, you bring it like this, it passes fast, blackmail. Take a yes, enjoy it. I will now tell you here about the two soldiers you owed this thing to have done so seriously since the first week, the second or the third. You went to your five hundred friends and allies Natali, Turks, secretaries, pharisaians, politicians, signatories agreements, bazaars, denounce hostage, bazaar, you didn't make it. And now we are going with perfect force from the point of view to obtain permanent residence, hoping in the court of the Turkish courts. It had to be done much earlier, if this were legally necessary. The lawyers are too late to tell you. You had two months. There have been other bills that you could have brought, rather than brought in today by this procedure, and we have to retreat into principle, so that we do not leave the two children there defencelessly. But to tell you, 'yes' to what I want to say, take me the second one that you have gone and put the evil ones under the parliamentary amendment. You went and put me in a set of arrangements for supervising the Operational Cooperative of Permanent Officers. Excuse me, but what does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u148	I'll take it off if you want us all to go together and vote for it. I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u149	Take it off. Do you take it off?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u150	If we're all going to vote, I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u151	If you take it off, I shall vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u152	I'm taking it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u153	Good. Take it off and vote 'yes'. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u154	Isn't that a terrestrial thing he's doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u155	Gentlemen, please! During the debate, any Minister of any government has the right to withdraw an article or part of an amendment or change. I understand what you are saying, Mr Tasoula, but not that it is irregular. On behalf of the Golden Dawn, because the representative of Parliament is present, Mr Pappas has the floor for three minutes for the two amendments. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. For the first amendment, which concerns the allowance in the border regions, it was scandalous to exclude the continent and Macedonia for so long and not to consider them as border areas, that is, you considered them as a Constitution, as Omonia, the extreme continent and the extreme Macedonia. It's too late than never. I have pointed out to you, Minister, to see the subject of retrospectives. I move on to the other issue, which is much more serious, on the issue of the two soldiers. We are positive, in principle, in this amendment. I would like to make the following points, however: you come to nothing but five to say that on Friday is the court and, as a sovereign state, we put our hopes on the part of the two hostage soldiers, who have spent a hundred and twenty-five days, four months, on the lawyers and the families, and we bring an amendment here and give a bonus to the military. We are buying off your guilt against the Greek state, which, at a time when we have two hostages, the Prime Minister sends congratulations, as a good submissive, to Erdogan for his election.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u157	What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u158	I propose that you finally become representatives of a national sovereign state, that you press from NATO, that you press within the international forums.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u159	That's what we're doing. We're drinking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u160	What are you pushing? You're hypotensive. On the tail you stood on Piat yesterday to take a picture,... you were. We are positive to the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u161	At the responsibility of the Bureau and in agreement - I am sure - Mr Pappas, the word... is deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u162	To delete Mr. Kammenos, if mine is deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u163	I'm talking about the meeting I'm running, not so many years ago! We're moving on to Mr. Andreas Loverdos. Here, Mr President, you have the floor for three minutes for the two amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u164	Now what is being done at the expense of counterpopulation is really unprecedented. It's two things good. How can we say 'no' to Mr Katsiki's amendment to the two soldiers? How can we say 'no' for any reason, substantial, procedural, when it comes to the two Greek soldiers? And how on the subject of the allowance brought by you to say 'no'? But what you're saying about Juliaraki doesn't fit. It can stand on the signature of Juliarakis. Last week we were in the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs. Yes, Mr. Kouvelis was there. You were able to bring the matter under the pending signature. My colleague is a member of the committee. It could have brought the matter under the pending procedure for tabling the amendment. None of this happened, Mr President. While the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs operates in a very positive climate, this climate is not exploited by the government. So what do you have me to say 'no' here? I cannot say 'no'. So the Democratic Compact, the Change Movement, we will say 'yes'. However, it remains the procedural issue and indeed the acidity you have created with your practice. The committee allows the Deputy Minister or the Member of Parliament to say 'we intend in plenary to bring this issue into your mind, take it into consideration and prepare for it'. Now I want to say a phrase, not for ten seconds, about what the Minister, Mr Kammenos, said in response to me in relation to NATO. I know the process well and thank you for highlighting my own experience. On the 11th day of the month, a leader does not come to discuss with his presence a specific issue, nor do the 1999 negotiations relate to today's. Because those negotiations may have resulted in NATO joining or resulted in the granting of a special status, as it did, to that country. These are other things. They are the finals before the signing of the Protocol and Mr Zaev's invitation has special meaning. Don't mess it up. For the people on the 11th day of the month will see you hear his thanks. And that for others doesn't raise a point. For you personally, especially with what you said yesterday, it raises a political issue, and that is what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u165	In consultation with Mr Dendia, Mr Davakis will speak on behalf of the New Democracy. Here, Mr Davaki, you have the floor for three minutes on the two amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, we are currently dominating our country's participation in a high-tech ammunition contract. The Minister said, in addressing me earlier, that he went to Afghanistan a few years ago and took part in Skopje. The fact that Skopje was involved in Afghanistan must be known, Minister. It does not mean that they will be able to participate in any international treaty and international agreement that we today sign and ratify as a country. The agreement made in Prespes a few days ago, and which is being persecuted by you, you must know that in Article 2(1), it states that our country cannot disagree with any participation of Skopje by the Skopje and the Six in any application they make to any body, such as the one we are currently dominating.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u167	From this point on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u168	That's right. From the day of the Prespecies Agreement, you've been trying to forget.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u169	From the date of ratification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u170	No, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u171	Please, no dialogue. We are talking about the two amendments, Mr Davakis, and I expect to hear the position of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u172	I am heard by the Greek people from whom you will be judged and voted against shortly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u173	Mr. Davakis, do you agree with Mr. Meimarakis or with Mr. Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u174	Do not interrupt the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u175	Secondly, the Internal Audit Service, which was set up by you and which we also voted on at No 4497, what conclusions has it taken? What has he done so far to change the staff of the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment and Investment? I tell you again, we are here, as I would like to believe, on issues of transparency and the fight against corruption. However, it is a major blow to the know-how and institutional memory of the GATT and many of its officials, which you must do and you must see again. You need to see it again! They'll empty entire sections of the GFCM. I now come to the amendments. The amendments tabled by the Minister cannot have a negative attitude to this House. The question we are concerned about is that this is not called parliamentary and legislative work. It is something that you have raised many times, Mr President, and I think that all the members of the National Representation must resist. They cannot come paper by way of amendments, hang on to sanctions for contracts, and today we must put ourselves on the table. If the Minister wishes to do his proper parliamentary duties, he will come to answer the questions tabled by the opposition, even the written questions to which he does not answer and ignore us. Also, as far as the border is concerned, the Minister should now tell us when it has been given, what amounts of border have been allocated and what it means to reservations. And secondly, legally, it refers to the military personnel of the Armed Forces, while the law that is amended states both the Port Corps and the Coast Guard and the officials of the Greek Police, the Fire Corps, etc. for a border. That's what I don't know why it's changing, and it's just about the strains of the Armed Forces. Look at that. That is what I wanted to say and not to mention in the past the involvement of forces in missions, without having anything to do with reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u176	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Xydakis, has the floor and we are closing with the Minister's three-minute terminology and entering the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think that all these procedural and some difficulties are concentrating on one bed at the moment. It agrees with Parliament as a whole and with the substance and spirit of the amendments. The Minister also withdrew a second part, which concerned the Banking Cooperative of Permanent Officials of the Hellenic Army.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u178	The second part of the parliamentary amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u179	The regulation for the two soldiers, who do not have a Member in this Chamber and a citizen in this country, is simply not in favour of it. I would also agree - and I am speaking in Parliament - that we could have a pre-emption of this House by the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u180	I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u181	But that is the nature of these arrangements, which need to regulate the issues of military, transfers and allowances at a difficult time, so that we can get into a normality. We also have this amendment for the two soldiers. I think that, in the economic sense and with the understanding of this House, any procedural difficulties, and with your own contribution, have been overcome. We agree on the substance. One comment on Mr Loverdos, who insists on how the FYROM accession protocol will be launched in NATO. It is clear from both the letter of the Prespecies Agreement and the political statements of the NATO Secretary-General, Mr Stoltenberg, how this will be done. When the agreement is complete and ratified by both States, the Protocol will be activated. From there on, Mr Loverdes may have his political objections or his political remarks, but I do not think that the perpetrators of a political practice or a political attitude can rely on the texts themselves. If we read the agreement carefully, it is very clear and the political will is expressed. I hope that all these details we had to resolve here and the urgent amendments also meet Parliament's consent and understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u182	Minister, you do not need to say anything on the amendments because they are unanimously accepted. You have made the point that you are taking the second part of Mr Katsiki's amendment. I give you the floor for three minutes. Don't open up any more issues with the placement - I'm moving forward - and personal things are starting and we're going this afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, in this Chamber you are my only oldest. As things happened, we became the oldest in this Chamber. I am very sorry that I have brought the amendments in this way. And since I have been a parliamentarian for all these years, I do not want to see any amendments in this way, especially when I am in the cabinet. But I want you to understand, ladies and gentlemen, that it was such a nature of the amendments to the border. They now inform me that he passed from the General Accounting Office of the State yesterday with an introductory report required to get it by Mr. Juliarakis and sign it. The man called me yesterday, returning from a journey, at 20.00, telling me: "Give me until morning to get the signature." I want everyone to see that I could bring her next week. These people, who serve in Macedonia and Thrace, would lose a month's salary. You all understand that. And for the soldiers, I don't have to say any more. To be typical, Mr President, I am not accepting Rule 2 of the amendment to the UFO, and so we are achieving unanimity in this House. As far as the Golden Dawn is concerned, should you refuse it, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u184	They'll be in love. They'll vote electronically.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u185	Let me explain to Mr. Davaki. Mr. Davakis, it's all the money you didn't give for the border. It's 20 million euros a year for the Ministry of National Defence. But I will explain more - because I really find it difficult - why the police and the fire department don't take them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u186	It says the last one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u187	Yes, the previous one says “for all Security Bodies and the Armed Forces”. If you read well, you will see that we are talking about overlap points. It was only the royal gendarmerie during the civil war. There were no forces to overlap with police forces in Greece. Only the Mississippi army has subtle signs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u188	How did they not exist? Until '77.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u189	So I personally hope that both the military and the port and firemen will be given to you. I have no objections. We've only got casings in the Drought Army. These people in the cover unit are the ones that should get the 100% border. Because he's not in Jannah. These people are on the edge. They're in Molybdoscope, they're out of snow for several days. They do not serve the same as a man who serves in a prefecture capital. I would therefore like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, for your tolerance to this. In fact, Mr Dannelly, I have said so from the outset - I did not want to bring it in this way, but there was no other way. And to assure you that next week, which we have the other bill, there will be no amendment that you will not have beforehand. I'm not going to take her. And I say it so that there is no such disagreement, at least at the level of the functioning of parliamentary democracy. I thank all my fellow Members very much for their tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u190	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u191	What do you want now, Mr. Teddy? The New Democracy has been placed. However, because you have not spoken at all while you are in the Chamber since the beginning, I will give you the floor for two minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, I will use less than two minutes. Mr President, I have followed the answer you have given to Mr Davaki. I will tell you with a practical example, to show you that the answer you gave him cannot withstand the crisis of reality. You're saying there's only the Greek Army. First of all, let's say it directly. The New Democracy is in favour of regulation and wishes to extend it. You're saying there's only the country's Armed Forces. For example, I will say, ladies and gentlemen. When I served in the army, the battalion had Poroia, a village on Mount Beles. The police officer, who also serves in Poroya, is entitled to it or is not entitled to it? Previously, Mr. Davakis referred to Molybdochupas. The Molybdopasta has a military unit. The policeman who is also in Molybdoscope, in your view, is not entitled. It's just in the same place, it's doing exactly the same work, it's under the exact same weather conditions. And also, the policeman has the issue of illegal immigration, which the Armed Forces do not handle. Therefore, too, for mental health in the broad sense and homogeneity, it is right when we make a proper adjustment, Minister, to make it for everyone. So what you say does not mean excluding the policemen who serve in exactly the same place, as do their military colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u194	The Minister has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u195	Mr. Dendia, if it were my responsibility for the Greek police, I would take care of the Greek police. I am here as Minister of National Defence, and I have the right to speak only about the Armed Forces. I'm not questioning the work of the Greek police officers. But I'll tell you that others are the Xyra Army hours, but the military are assigned to the cover-up forces and the police. For me, I hope tomorrow we will give both the police and the firemen and the porters and everyone. No one will object in this Chamber. Powers, however, do not exist. You know that very well. And, of course, when we say we have the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies in the same way, we should also see what status everyone operates. And the Port Corps is under military code. Police and other military benefits have other kinds of benefits. There are many policemen who pass far worse than military officers, who are in covert units, in special units, even in the center of Athens. But that doesn't mean that I, as Minister of National Defence, can also legislate for the Greek Police. And, of course, Mr. Toskas has had a big fight so he can - and that's why he's delayed, if you want, from there - to be okay....
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u196	We got it insulated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u197	Minister, do not repeat ourselves. You've been clear. You in your house and Mr. Toskas in his house. The debate is closed at the outset, under the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Signature of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Defence of Denmark, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of National Defence of Portugal and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain on Multinational Cooperation for Directed Nuclear Accuracy Air - Territory, as well as the impending 1st Amendment thereto and other provisions’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u198	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u199	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u200	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Defence of Denmark, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of National Defence of Portugal and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain on Multinational Cooperation for Directed Missile Accuracy of Air - Territory, as well as the impending 1 amendment thereto and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u201	The debate on the principle and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence is hereby terminated: ‘Definition of the Technical Arrangement between the Ministries of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Hellenic Republic and the Portuguese Republic, as regards the Battle Formation based on SIAF, with the Participation of the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Portugal’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u202	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u203	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u204	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Definition of the Technical Arrangement between the Ministries of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Portugal, as regards the Battle Formation, with the Participation of the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Portugal’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u206	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we are interrupting here for 15 minutes, in order to start the debate on waivers of immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Requests for waiver of immunity of Members: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, Mr Andreas Loverdou, Mr Georgios Katrugalos, Mr Ioannis Stefou and Mr Evangelos Vassiliou Meimarakis. The Report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 29 June 2018, according to which members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Andreas Loverdos' immunity should not be lifted. Furthermore, the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced the report on 23 May 2018, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed the waiver of immunity of Mr George Katrugalos. The Report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 29 June 2018, which states that the members of the Committee unanimously proposed that the waiver of Mr Ioannis Stefou's immunity should be waived. Also by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics, the report was announced on 29 June 2018, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed that the immunity of Mr Evangelos-King Meimarakis should not be waived. Also in accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the House shall decide by raising the hand or rest on the request of the Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article... [[Noise in the Chamber]] The fuss is too big. The floor shall always be given on request to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of 23 March 2005, we agreed on applications for waiver of immunity that the House should decide by roll-call vote. I would like to inform you that according to a decision of the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of 7 March 2018, the new electronic roll-call system has been triggered. If a colleague has not brought the card with him, he will have to say it here at the service of the House, so that we can see what happens in his case, that is to say if he can vote in another way. So since the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is closed, we will proceed to a roll-call electronic vote, as I said before. The first case concerns Mr Andreas Loverdos, the second case concerns Mr Georgios Katrugalos, the third case concerns Mr Ioannis Stefos, and the fourth case concerns Mr Evangelos Meimarakis. Is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? There's no one. Is the second request a colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u208	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u209	Here, Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked the committee, and I will now ask for my immunity to be lifted, not because I accept that there is a trace or a shadow of criminal responsibility, but because I think it is the task of the political world, especially in view of the debate that will take place in the forthcoming constitutional review, not even to give the impression that we want to be protected from judicial control. There is no personal responsibility assigned to me and there has been no specific criminal prosecution against me. What's being investigated?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u211	Mr. Georgiadis, can you not disciple on the request for immunity?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u212	I did not speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u213	You're talking to yourself?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u214	I'm talking to Mr. Yakumato.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u215	I'm thinking we might have other kinds of issues. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u216	I'm not going to be late, Mr. Comrade. I just think we should show particular responsibility for these issues because they are watching us and they are not funny things. The price of your political world also concerns you, and you should pay due attention and respect for these issues. The case, therefore, concerns the investigation of any liability, without any criminal prosecution of all members, of all the professors of the Democrat University for the period 2010-2013, as to whether they have checked the contributions to the Special Account, which are required by the Professors-Partners. There was no similar responsibility or competence between 2010 and 2013. Our government first enacted a similar responsibility in 2016. Nevertheless - I repeat - because I believe that immunity should only be given when there are traces of political persecution and I think it is obvious that we do not want to be protected from justice, that we want to be equal, like all other citizens in any investigation, and, above all, to send a signal that things are changing, that this unacceptable status of immunity of civil servants in force on the basis of this provision - which must be changed - is not something we support and give a strong signal that we want to change.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u217	Is there a colleague on the third request asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u218	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u219	Mr. Stephen has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, in January 2013 there was a car accident in Ioannina. A car while I was moving into my current, passed the opposite current, fell over me and there was an accident. There is already a discharge which I will make - with regard to the civil part of the civil court - which invokes the plaintiffs and judicial expenditure. Also from the evidence in the file, it turns out that the driver driving the car that fell on me had too much alcohol -250 ml - in blood. On the contrary, there was no finding in me. Obviously, I'm sorry about the accident. We're not even talking about that. However, I have asked the committee too, and I ask all of you to waive my immunity, so that this case can be brought to an end. I am tabling - as I have tabled to the committee responsible - the relevant decision by the Single Chamber of First Instance in Ioannina, which considered the opposite to be solely responsible and I expect you to proceed with what we all have to do to end this story.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u221	Is there a colleague who asks for the floor on the fourth application? Nobody.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u223	Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u224	Mr President, I would like to say on the occasion of the fact that we are here today on this issue - I also see the chairman of the committee, Mr Kourakis - that from the new summit, the last time we begin, it is important to return to the status of the committee in the past, that is, along with the information on applications for waiver of immunity, there should also be a small information on the matter - all my colleagues are asking for it personally - so that, beyond the confidence we have and the fact that we are voting on the committee's proposal, we can also be aware of the fact that colleagues are in the process. We have the time now, after the Summer Departments since 1 October, at the last Session to return to the former regime. I think there is no objection to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the request for the waiver of immunity from Mr Andreas Loverdou, Mr Georgios Katrugalos, Mr Ioannis Stefus and Mr Evangelos - Kingdom of Meimarakis. The vote shall include four different cases for the waiver of immunity from Members' immunity. Every time on the screen a case appears to be voted on. To show the next or the previous one, you should press the arrow on the top right or left side of the screen respectively. Make sure you've voted for all cases of waiver of immunity. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened and that Members vote on the request for waivers of immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you in this House of the outcome of the electronic roll-call vote on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament. On the first case of Mr Andreas Loverdos: A total of 182 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 11 Members voted. On the issue of immunity, 171 Members voted against. 'PARON' voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. On the second case by Mr Georgios Katrugalou: A total of 181 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 174 Members voted. On the question of immunity, 7 Members voted against the motion for a resolution, i.e. 'NOVO'. 'PARON' voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. On the third case by Mr Ioannis Stefou: A total of 178 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. On the question of immunity, i.e. 'OH', three Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. On the fourth case by Evangelos Meimarakis: A total of 180 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', five Members voted. Against the abolition of immunity, i.e. 'NO', they voted 175 MPs. "PARON" voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. The result of the roll-call vote, as reflected by the electronic system and shown on the screens of the Chamber, shall be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and shall be as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u228	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-04-S1-commons.u229	With the consent of the House at 13.00 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 5 July 2018 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
