ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday, 9 February 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by the Member of the Radical Left, Mr Athanasios, Mr Athanasios, Mr Athanasios, Mr Athanasios, Mr Athanasios to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Twelves of decommissioned ships and shipwrecks in the region of Limenos Elefsina". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. 3. The 970/2-2-2018 topical question of the Member of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Michael Jeleigh to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Reimbursement of producers - EBZ Reconstruction Plan". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Mr Georgios Kasapidis asked the Minister for the Environment and Energy 997/6-2-2018 on “Addressing the repeated epidemic attacks of the insect lymantria dispar in Kosanis by biological methods”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Odysseus Constantinople to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The work to attract visitors to Lake Ladona, of EUR 1,289,618, the work to improve the Pournaria - Kyriou Bridge - Storms of EUR 500,000, expects to be announced". 3. The question by No 981/5-2-2018 of the President of Athens of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The need to extend the force of a positive judicial decision on the "superior natural persons", issued at the request of the protagonist and in favour of his obligors and guarantors". 4. Under No 962/31-1-2018, a topical question by the Independent MEP 2 of Athens Mr.Estathios Panagoulis to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject of the "Supporting and Dangerous" decision by the "Left" Government on the cancellation of asylum to the Civilian Operational Officer "OZKAYNAKCI SULEYMAN". 5. The Question No 955/30-1-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Removal of polluting facilities from the region of the Linopera of the Municipality of Malevizios". 6. Question No 874/22-1-2018 by Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on "Financing from PPC S.A. the work of improving the street Pournaria - Kyri Bridge - Mygdalia, amounting to 500,000 euros." 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under No 752/8-1-2018, a topical question by MP I Piraeus of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "What goals has our country caught in the battle for climate change?" REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 2433/9-1-2018 by MP Chios of the New Democracy Mr. South Mitaraki to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: 'Reimbursement of Chios residents from the damage caused by immigration'. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the second question with No 1586-27-11-2017 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP Drama of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the "Decision of the Board. of the Centre for Social Welfare of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace to expel trainees from the Department of Physical Rehabilitation and Vocational Education (SME)". Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, anger and indignation - and this, of course, has caused parents themselves - have been justified when it comes to removing from the Department of Physical Rehabilitation and Vocational Training the decision of the Centre for Social Welfare in Eastern Macedonia and Thrace temporarily to expel their children from the programmes being implemented. The letters, which were sent from the Drama Chronic Diseases Annex, suddenly called on parents - and I will explain why they have called - to withdraw their children from this section until the necessary conditions of safety and of not disturbing their proper functioning are ensured. This development, unfortunately, shows both the sensitivity and the level of welfare and care which the government places on our fellow humans. Bad questions arise and the suggestion made to parents, as I was told, to enrol their children into a private hospitality structure, which is considered most appropriate. In view of the above, which demonstrates that the welfare state is constantly degrading, through government policies and in the field of the protection of small and medium-sized enterprises, you ask, Minister, why have these trainees been expelled after more than five years of operation of this section? Were the invoking safety reasons not available during these children's school in the previous years? When does the Ministry and the Centre for Social Welfare of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace intend to ensure the necessary conditions for returning these trainees? Why was the Department of Physical Rehabilitation and Vocational Training led to deforestation of staff without a corresponding provision for its statutory replacement? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u3	Mrs. Fotou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Kyriazidis, by your question you raise a scientific issue, omission of all its parameters. Generalise and use unfair expressions for a public, educational, public structure of AMEA with mental deprivation - as "children" etc. - where workers, on a daily basis, with a soul deposit operate, in extremely difficult conditions. I hope we both agree that this is not a political investment issue. We're going in detail to the facts. The Department of Physical Rehabilitation and Vocational Training Drama - why are you talking about it - is an open structure for people with mental deprivation. This means that all trainees return at noon to their families. From there, they go wherever they think this afternoon. These two went from the beginning to the private structure in the afternoon. The benefit is all adults. You are talking in your timely question about two people, twenty-five to thirty years old, who have been following the program since 2009. On 19-10-2017, with a written recommendation, the psychologist in the annex to the Board of the Centre for Social Welfare in Eastern Macedonia and Thrace suggests that there is a problem of aggressive stimulation - which is why I am talking about the elimination of scientific data - two beneficiaries, with severe mental deprivation, both to themselves and to the rest of the trainees. It is suggested that personalised care and treatment are required to that effect, which the department cannot provide on the basis of its organisation of operation. His organization says that the person attending must not have stimuli in order to become restless and inappropriate to cohabit, because the structure of Drama is an educational structure. It is also suggested that personalised care and treatment are required for this, which, as I said, cannot provide the department. The Board of Directors shall then decide temporarily to suspend the participation of the two beneficiaries in this programme in order to ensure the safety of both the same and the other trainees. I say it again: Temporary interruption. The situation of the trainees was also consulted by medical advice of the head of psychiatric clinic at the General Hospital of Drama. What happened after these two trainees left? Firstly, there is contact with the person responsible for the employment structure, who temporarily serves the two HEIs. Secondly, we have not been notified of any change in the regimen of the reported ACEs. Mr Kyriazidis, you may not be aware that the parental care and care of these people are taken by their parents, and since their parents have it, if they do not consent to a change of treatment, i.e. treatment, they cannot interfere with a section, which is also educational, other than others. We have no information, since these two AMEs have been removed from the department, about which psychiatrist and neurologist are following them. Not provided by a private doctor in the family any document he consults about improving their health in order to return to our department. Of course, they will return to our department, but since we have the guarantees that this scientific problem has come, because people with severe mental discomfort have such behaviour. When they develop them, therefore, they need a change in treatment and then they can return to this action. I think you ignore that because if you didn't ignore it, you wouldn't ask me why they've been removed for that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u6	Madam Minister, as you know, your presence here has been to do with the fact that you have not answered my question since November. I had asked a question and I waited in writing for you to answer me. It would not be necessary today for you to be present here, nor for that to be the case, to the extent that you and I are seeking it, for their own reason and purpose. But my purpose is unique. Because I also had a previous knowledge of the operation and because, in fact, as a government MP at that time, I had found that the workers in this section were working in a private department and were driving and leading children to that, so I say that my efforts were such that there would be a message that this will not be repeated. Secondly, you say 'temporary'. But we have been temporarily in November, Minister. What does "temporary" mean to you? We also have to say that these programmes have an end date. So when we drive these children into another structure, as you understand, they immediately have a different psychological function and pressure, because they change their educational environment. We understand that. We cannot, therefore, have these movements every little while - and you have rightly stressed it - because they also accept a psychological pressure, as we understand it, when they change space every few minutes. We also do not know how long this programme will last. You mentioned that the parents did not provide the institution - if you wish - with a medical certificate that children have improved or anything else. But that's a state job. Because the foundation is being watched, should it not, in any case, invite the children here, as he has driven them away, to see what is going on and then to see whether or not their situation has improved? Shouldn't that be? None of this happened. There was only one medical examination by a psychiatrist, and the children were taken out of the institution. I believe - and we are all aware - that there must also be the financial capacity for these structures, because the main element, which has been stressed to me, is that we do not have funding, and so on - the removal of children will gradually begin to move towards private structures. That's my information. Unfortunately, that's the situation. I believe in dentistry that we have something more positive and creative for all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u7	Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Cryazides, I think you've gone through a lot of mistakes, maybe out of sight. Firstly, none of the workers are working in a private structure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u9	I didn't say about...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u10	Don't interrupt me now. Secondly, I said that the two people with disabilities had been watching, from 2009 onwards, a private structure in the afternoon. Others. Third, I said the workers work with a soul deposit. The purpose of this institution is education and rehabilitation. It is not his or her regulation and organisation, when disabled people have problems with stimulant aggressive behaviour, that they cannot monitor the programme. Fourthly, what is all this on the programme that will end and on the fact that people will go to private structures? Who has made these structures impoverished? So I'll tell you why it seems you don't know basic things. When this structure began in 2009, it had thirty - five beneficiaries, benefiting - trainees. In 2015, you know how many he had? He had fifty-four. What does that mean? The increase was 54%. Do you know how many workers were in 2009? It was forty-eight. Do you know how many you delivered us? At the time when, based on the 54% increase, we had seventy-five employees, we had thirty-four. That's what you did in 2015. I'll say how many people are now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u11	How many are there now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u12	Wait, don't interrupt me. Wait, you'll hear it all. Don't worry. In 2017, we issued three calls of interest for the recruitment of ancillary staff of various specialties through ASP. Fifteen additional staff were recruited, twenty-four additional staff were extended.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u13	In the periphery you mean, not downtown.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Cryazides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u15	We gave 180,000 more from the State lottery for re-entry of additional staff, what I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Cryazides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Cryazides, I'm going to say something that you seem to be ignoring as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u18	All over the district...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u19	You don't know the procedure, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u20	When your government decides that the six institutions became a Social Welfare Centre, in the particular case you're asking me, you don't know - you don't know it, it's obvious - what you did in relation to his money. So I'm telling you, and I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u21	You did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u22	...that from 3 million that the Centre had reserve in Drama in the Bank of Greece, PSA got tired of two, so he left him 1 million. But you ignore all that. So now let's go down for what we're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u23	Lie, Minister. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Kyriazidis, you seem to be really ignoring what your resignation, the law...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u25	And you'll bring it to you to fix it...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, I will either finish or this work will not be done. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u27	Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u28	He's lying to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Lady, I don't understand. You don't know the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u30	I know her, but she's lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u31	Stop, keep quiet, not to use any other expressions!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u32	What you're doing is rude at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u33	That's rude.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u34	Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u35	It's insulting me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u36	He didn't say anything offensive, nothing personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u37	She tells me I'm missing...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u38	I didn't understand what offended you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u39	He's lying and continuing the same...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u40	He's telling you the evidence. Dispute them in any way you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u41	I'm leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u42	Do what you want. Please, Minister, continue and complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u43	My time, Mr President, to finish. This is where the situation is reversed. We say that this government is downgrading MEDIs. After I told you what we received, I'd like to tell you what we're doing. It appears that you have heard nothing about Law 4483/2017, Articles 59 to 74, that your prolongation voted for, and that the wheelchair movement characterized them as part of the country for the first time all these years. It is the law of harmonisation - as you remember - in the Greek law of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u44	You're setting a timer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u45	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u46	You heard nothing about the government putting 15 million into decoupling disabled people with emphasis on Lehana. You did not hear a word about a story that was stigmatizing the country. You've heard nothing of what we're doing for the RUIs and the wheelchair movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u47	Finish, Minister. Time spent long ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u48	I will not answer, Mr President, for the Member who asks the question and then leaves. I am replying, for the House to hear and for the Greek people to hear what lies are being reported.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u49	Within time, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u50	Yeah, but that's not how it works. I'll be done. I said from the outset, it's not a field of controversy between the two AMEAs. The two disabled people of Drama will return well to the specific training course in Drama. We'll do it. We're in contact with them. I have analysed why we are and we are trying to see how the situation has settled, to come back. This is our commitment. Of course, all the social welfare centres in Greece will be upgraded. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u51	Put a perfect one, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u52	That is why, from 780 million budget that we received in 2015, we have reached 1.5 billion now for welfare, and we are taking it to 2.5 billion for time. So this is to be noticed by the New Democracy, which has led to such impoverishment of all these institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, too. I would ask that the procedure be followed. I don't just attend, and I salute here. We continue with the first with number 972/5-2-2018 in the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Enhancement of water resources and the implementation of the works of conservatives in Heraklion Prefecture". Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have been informed from your office that more than fifty projects, smaller or larger, concerning the water resources of Heraklion are submitted to the services of the Ministry of Rural Development. For this very large number, the evaluation, the 'priorisation', the maturation and the search for the necessary financial resources for their implementation are the peak points, if we want to move forward as quickly as possible. As far as the priorities are concerned, and in terms of gravity, I would mention that for the southern part of Heraklion from the east to the west there is the Amyra dam in Vianno, the Easter river dam, the Lake River dam a little further west in Gortina and the intervention on the Platy River to facilitate the Faneromeni dam. In the hinterland of Heraklion there are many smaller projects, mainly lakes and smaller dams for irrigation in areas that actually live from the primary sector of water resources in the region. Finally, the water of biological cleansing is to be used in irrigation. Allow me to stand specifically on the Platy river dam, since I've seen it more. After many years of delay and with responsibilities, which are obviously burdening the previous political leaderships of the Ministry of Rural Development, we now finally have the approval of the geological study, the final transport study, the final plumbing study of the dam and the transport pipeline, the tendering lots and the economic feasibility study concerning the pre-study and the final study of the dam in Platy, as well as the final study of the water transport pipeline in Messara. You say the images were waiting for today's debate, Minister. Just yesterday, the publicity spotlights lighted the village of Sfedami again. It is a village, which was completely covered by the water of the Apostlemi dam and was completely revealed, due to the decline of the water level, from the anomomobia that exists. Because this example also highlights the value of using and making good use of all the water resources and the implementation of the necessary works in Heraklion Prefecture, but also throughout the island, I would like, if you can, Minister, to tell us which of these fifty projects is in the Ministry's priority, with which timetable they will proceed and what the Ministry is thinking about financing them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u55	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u56	Mr Colleague, you and we are particularly aware of the problems that exist in management and in the necessity for Crete. You refer to fifty works in Heraklion Prefecture. If we talk about the whole of Crete, you realize that the projects that need to be implemented are many, but there are still others that need study and planning. That's what we do as a ministry. But now we need to see things based on the possibilities we have to finance these projects from national resources, see how we will continue to implement projects, because there are projects that are incomplete and in line with the commitments that have been made. What I have to say to you is that until yesterday, the day before yesterday, we had the great problem for the improvement of works, according to the well-known heresy, which had to do with the European Commission's requirement to complete procedures for the management of water resources and, above all, the submission of studies on river basin management. This procedure has been completed. We are waiting for the committee's reply today, tomorrow. But we are already preparing ourselves for these measures. So you realise that having committed obligations, with the need to multiply the resources available to us, there we will actually have criteria on the basis of these criteria, which concern the whole country, the needs that each region has, we will proceed. And there, of course, it will be apparent whether we can and what of these cases that have been submitted we can implement. I shall refer specifically to the issues relating to Heraklion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u58	Thank you for your reply, Minister, but I must say that I do not understand which of the projects are coming in, even immediately. Allow me. For Platy River there is a request from January 24, 2018 from the region, a week ago we speak. The Department of Antimilitary and Enhancement Works Department of the Ministry of Infrastructure has asked your Ministry for the existing studies to proceed and integrate it into the combined works of Platis and Gerakari dam and the irrigation works. Action is being taken to run under the sectoral programmes of the Ministry of Transport and Network Infrastructure. A comment on this. I think we should not delay the procedures. Secondly, I said before about using the water of biological cleansing for irrigation. It is not a small amount. Only DESCRIPTION right now has fourteen and a half thousand cubic metres a day. With an investment of 5 million we have twenty thousand cubic metres a day, which can be used for irrigation. It's a thousand cubic metres an hour, when design from Apostelemi - it doesn't take that long, because it actually doesn't have water - it was three hundred. Four times the amount can give and right now this water goes to the sea. Just yesterday, the three ministers, the interior, the Deputy Economy and Environment, Mr. Skourletis, Haritsis and Famelos announced a programme for a hundred sixty-nine settlements over two thousand inhabitants, a programme of 916 million, almost 1 billion for the establishment and implementation of a National Infrastructure and Solution Plan. In other words, the amount of biological cleansing will increase. Already Mr. Skourletis and Mr. Haritsis in an interview before the CEDEFOP conference announced a programme of up to 2 billion over five years. In consultation with the municipalities of Heraklion - as I have been informed by correspondence I have had with the mayors - 100 million, the government has them for the municipalities, for water and sewerage projects. So we will have a large amount of water for irrigation, which will be produced or produced by biological cleansing. The question is: Will the Ministry fund? Will the Ministry, if necessary, face legal obstacles to the immediate financing of the Ministry of JHA? How will it deal with the question of financing projects so that this water does not go to the sea, not to be lost, but to be exploited in the primary sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u59	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u60	Mr Colleagues, the Public Investment Project which the Ministry of Rural Development has in the context of the improvement of projects relates, in particular, to two cases. One is the unsuccessful obligations, which must certainly be completed, and the second concerns the State's involvement in the absorption of the sum, which relates to this measure by the Rural Development Programme. We therefore, because there was this heresy that I told you before, in order to avoid delay, asked regional self-government to send us proposals for priorities, which they considered should be in the process of examining whether or not we can satisfy them. Already, the Regional Government of Crete sent and we have them. We are, however, obliged, on the basis of the programme to proclaim this measure, by addressing Greece as a whole, to expect their proposals to come from Crete as well as from other regions. And there, as you can see, we have specific money relating to the national contribution to the Rural Development Programme, plus the specific measure provided for in the Rural Development Programme and there are criteria - 'DENMARKING' - which certainly relate to the needs of each region. And as we all understand, in particular Crete has problems and needs, and in any case the criteria that will be in place for this region, in relation to other regions, will be more favourable. I cannot, as you can see, now predict how far this process will reach. I would tell you that in the first half of 2018 they will now be clear. Especially for the Regional Government of Crete, however, at this time, three projects are being financed, especially from the commitments made, in the Regional Unit of Heraklion. And because you are referring to Platy, we have included this specific need for funding in the committed obligations of the Rural Development Programme, which, as you can see, are far less than the total amount that this measure has. So, in fact, it will be something that will be satisfied. We have a road and perhaps some time later, when this process is completed, I can give more details of the individual projects.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, twenty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the 96th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We will now discuss the fifth under number 1002/6-2-2018 in the first cycle of the Member of the Greek Communist Party of the Greek Parliament, Emmanuel Synthraki, with the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Damages caused by agricultural crops in various areas of Crete due to extreme weather". Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there are incalculable damage suffered by farmers in green and vegetable crops, in olive fruit, in open bananas, due to the extreme weather phenomena on 25 and 26 January of this year, with the winds of 12 Boughts, 30 miles per hour, i.e. a real hurricane, in the areas of Ierapetra, Viannos, Tympaki. The greenhouse constructions have been levelled, production has been completely destroyed, at the heart of the production period, at the stage of the export season. The economic catastrophe, Mr Minister, is a great deal of construction and production, or only plant production. For example, in Ierapetra, two hundred sixty acres, nylon, wooden or iron structures, columns and plant production have been completely destroyed. Destruction of plant production is over six hundred acres. The ruins of olivefruit are in thirty - seven acres. Furthermore, there are four hundred producers who will not report losses due to low losses, but their production has been destroyed. Not to mention how many people would like to say, but they do not either because they have left the ELGA or because they have not been able to fulfil their obligations or because they have consciously left him. In Arvi and Fish Forada we have about a hundred acres and two hundred hundred acres of partial destruction in construction and complete production. In Tympaki there is a total destruction in fifty acres and a hundred fifty acres in plant production. And we'll see, of course, what happens until the end of the count completed tomorrow. It is not, of course, only greenhouse gases that have been damaged. They have suffered significant damage to PPC pillars, streets, storage areas, the gym of Viano, the fishing shelters of Arvis and Kastri, homes, various buildings. As has been damaged by the school building, housed in Koutsoura High School and high school complex, Makri Gialou, as well as in kindergarten. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We ask you, Minister, what do you intend to do to satisfy the requests of the farmers and to take immediate measures, here and now, in order to include all the regions affected in the emergency regime, from Kutsoura to Tympaki? And when we say 'continuation status', we mean, not on paper but in essence, which means mobilising a state machine, that the ELGA staff, rural people, should go out to the fields to assess, allocate the state funds to repair the damage, compensate the affected, by way of derogation from time-consuming bureaucratic procedures. What, anyway, have you done so far? You have to tell us. There's no staff in the ELGA to go to the greenhouses. ELGA does not compensate. Measures to facilitate affected and suspend credit and other obligations...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u63	You've got a second one, Mr. Synhronakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u64	Allow me to conclude the questions. It's not too little. The damage is too big. Be flexible in this matter, because there are too many questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u65	Time doesn't go in line with the damage, Mr. Syndrome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u66	You've given previous more time than you've given me right now. We therefore call on you, Mr Minister, to respond specifically to us: Will the farmers affected be compensated for 100% of the damage from ELGA, without asterisks and conditions - taking into account that they are in harvesting - and with the existing producer prices and, in fact, directly to retreat? Will the state budget provide exceptional support for their first direct needs and when? Will the time limit be extended to indicate the areas in an emergency state of six months from the one that has been fixed, because this time limit is not enough? Will the ELGA hire personal? Will they be exempt from tax and insurance obligations and the freezing of the debts of all those affected for a period of three years, such as applicants? Will the auctions, seizures and account commitments stop? Will the accounts of the affected parties be released?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u67	All right, get the answer, Mr. Covenant.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u68	It's a ruthless question. Producers are angry. We are waiting now for you - because we are being watched now - concrete answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u69	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, you have raised so many issues, which you realise that I, as Minister for Rural Development, cannot answer you. Since the time you took one month in an emergency, it is also a matter of procedures for regional government and local government with the co-legislative ministries, if necessary - which seems to be necessary - that an extension should be granted. This is something that is happening in all cases, involving damages and such situations, which the country is facing. From there on, as far as the issues relating to the Ministry of Rural Development are concerned, of course, and the assessment of damage has started, the assessors have generally gone all over the region. We haven't even been late for one day. But you realise that this whole process of damage assessment, until payment, is not something that can be done from one day to the next, for the simple reason that the first thing we need to see after the announcements and the first assessment is whether we have an insurance cover from the ELGA or not. So the first thing that comes in is to see in connection with the loss of production, but also the fixed equipment if there is insurance cover. Of course, in those cases where there is insurance, the proceedings will be initiated within a period of time - I tell you something that is now permanent in the last period - in six to seven months there will be a corresponding payment of compensation. Now you're telling me, 100% of the compensation? I tell you that the one regarding the ELGA premiums in a first phase is paid 70%. And of course, along the way and in particular at a time when damages due to climate change, etc. They always override the ELGA budget to see, of course, from there on, why we have the stocks, but also the possibility of increasing the ELGA budget by 30% to cover the damage. Now, because it is certain that there are damages not covered by the ELGA, particularly on fixed equipment, there, we will follow the well-known process of drafting a dossier to be submitted to the European Commission. An envelope, which you realise will not secure payments within a corresponding time, which we had the payments from the ELGA. But in dentistry, I'll tell you more about this part.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u72	Because you told us, Minister, that we raised a lot of issues and you cannot answer them, so we are here, we ask questions, Minister for Rural Development, you are a rural area, you know, you are experienced. Therefore, producers certainly ask for answers to all questions or requests, in any case, which they themselves have submitted. Mr Minister, you said that an extension would be granted, and so on. I think you should see it because there are too many disasters. The overall assessment of the situation requires a sufficient period of time. From there on, farmers are really in a despair and a marginal anger. Keep the border anger. And that's why? Firstly, on the one hand we have the anti-agricultural, anti-grassroots policy of the government, the European Union and the common agricultural policy, which is tightening up the nipple and destroying the producer, carpeting, tax-free, great insurance contributions for ELGA, ECA, high production costs, low prices, uncontrolled activities of traders and brokers, account commitments, seizures, auctions, etc., the list is innumerable. Secondly, farmers have been damaged since April 2016 in the East and Myrtus regions of Ierapetra since the fires. Thermal crops, beeswax, flocks, irrigation systems, arable land became ashes. They didn't get a penny and they're still in debt. In fact, you have responded to a relevant question from us that there will be State aid from the PESA and, indeed, you would, he says, be able to cover the damage. Uh, but there were records, estimates, the area was declared burned, and in the end nothing, you fooled them. So you fooled a hundred ten farm farmers' families. Thirdly, the intense and protracted anomalism, with the phenomena of water shortage, which leads to the despair of producers. This is where the TEV of East Crete has made a circular, which says not to move on to spring and summer crops. The lack of funding in a combination of aquarium proficiency projects. Previously, we followed our colleague's previous question from Crete and finally, it was "from the city I come to the cinnamon crown". Why? Because it is not within the planning of investing the state in such enhancement projects. And with an ELGA, of course, grabbing them from the producer, from his contributions and never compensation them at all or all of the damage. And every time there are several pretexts, when it's under 30%, when it doesn't cover fires, when it doesn't cover the livestock, because of annoyance, when it doesn't cover the damage from the torch, when one of the other excuses and in the other 3% in ELGA, the contribution, 2% for the homicide, which also tends to become an individual case. The vast majority of producers are out of the ELGA because they do not have to pay, Mr Minister, and what you are saying is blackmail, because you know very well that they do not have to pay the ELGA. The damage, however, is damage, this man must be compensated. I will give you an example and I shall close with that, Mr President. Producer in Ierapetra with six acres damaged 1,5 acres - total damage, construction and plant production -40,000 euros. He will not be compensated, based on your words. And the man had to pick up production. It is the horn pepper that had a good price, 1.40 and owes the geopole 8,500 euros. His damage is multiple, because he has to pay his loans, he must invest for the new growing season, he must live his family, etc. We therefore have two issues: one is the producer's enemy, which is nature, and the other is the anti-agricultural policy of the government and of the European Union with the common agricultural policy. Farmers will not sit with their hands crossed. They have shown this with the blockades, they will prove it in these areas too, so that they will press on, resolve some issues and overturn this policy as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u73	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u74	I'm starting with your last placement. That's nature! We are obliged to support the impact of agricultural production, as much as possible, and to deal with them. The other things you said about anti-grassroots policies, national, European Union and, in particular, the rural area, we discussed them, we did not spend the time. The rural world has already been informed. Dear colleague, ELGA is an agency - as it is today - with a regulation based on two parameters: compensation and solidarity. It is the farmer's money that supports the functioning of the ELGA. As you can see, we have to deal with these in such a way that we can serve the two parameters I have told you. So to say now to cover all the compensation, without the corresponding cover of the premium, is a logic which, if accepted, will lead to the following parameter: When I have damages, then we will offset, what is to be paid, with what it is to pay and you realize that such a logic will mean that ELGA does not have any revenue or one euro. So don't put that logic in. We should get into another parameter. I do not disagree with you that there should be a reinforcement of the ELGA budget from the state budget, within the possibilities, of course, which our country has, but also at the same time, following the approval of the European Commission, for the simple reason that we are going to be called on the other side in the context of competition to tell us what you are doing, are you strengthening farmers without our approval? These things, we now do not take risks and you know that, as Greek farmers know. Let's see, then, how through actuarial procedures in this period we'll be able to cover other insurance risks and at the same time how we can make the ELGA more functional and, more importantly, more effective, to stand up to the Greek farmer. What I want to make clear to you once again is that we have found ELGA payments in twelve and thirteen months on compensation, we have brought limits to seven to eight months, and you realize that from now on, we also have the other debt: the ELGA must always be strong, even in exceptional circumstances like the ones we are experiencing with climate change to be able to meet our obligations. The rest of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure do not take place from one day to the next. With the participation of the farmers themselves, in 2018 we will also have the government's proposal on the functioning of the ELGA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, allow me to present in the minutes the unanimous decisions of the Ierapetra and Vianno Municipal Councils and the letter of the Single Agricultural Association of Producers outside the horticultural and horticultural activities of the Municipality of Ierapetra on the basis of these problems and the issues mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that from the left seats of the House, the Vice-President of the Lower Parliament, Mrs Claudia Rot, is following the meeting. We welcome you. Willkomen! [[Applause]] We are now going to the first with number 973/5-2-2018, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Boeotia, the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Nicholas Thebeaus, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Leave the property in accordance with the par. Article 4(b) of Law 4061/2012 (GBM 66A 22/03/2012).’; Mr. Tibetan, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u77	It is well known, Minister, that the Agricultural University of Athens has farms of thousands of acres in the area of Aliartos, Boeotia, where the academic community operates for educational and research activities, important for the region and for the development of agricultural sciences. Following the wide-ranging meeting at the Ministry of Finance on the issue of the liquidation of the former Kopaidas Organization, the liquidator stated that the ownership of a particular piece, with a number 73, within the project city, currently belongs to the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Since the Government and the Ministry of Education have proved in practice that it wants to upgrade and improve the general public universities, because the use of the above-mentioned property by the Agricultural University will improve the operation of the facilities and will, if you like, benefit the rural and livestock population of the region and because - also important - the Region of Central Greece has already signed a "Cooperation Protocol" with the Agricultural University of Athens on the creation of "Centre of Innovatives and Sustainable Applications of Agricultural Sciences", ask if you really and soon intend to implement the Protocol which exists from the Region, but also in general the agri-food activities of the Agricultural University in Boeotia, to be awarded.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u78	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u79	Mr Colleagues, the Ministry of Rural Development has proved in practice that actions such as those which serve the rural area are always responding. Already in our three years of service at the Ministry of Rural Development over sixty free concessions have been made to serve this purpose. Of course, the Ministry is not simply a viewer of concessions. It shall monitor whether those concessions fulfil the purpose for which they have been granted. Why am I saying that? Because there are many cases of withdrawals, because they have not fulfilled the purpose for which they were granted. On this point: we have looked positively at the request of the Region of Central Greece, the Regional Unit of Boeotia, for the free concession of the use of a plot, which is about eleven acres, along with the existing buildings of the former Coconut of cotton in Aliartos. There, therefore, the request states that the purpose of this use should be to create a Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Applications of Agronomic Sciences, provided that the conditions contained in a Cooperation Protocol signed by the Region of Central Greece with the Agricultural University of Athens are respected. We therefore consider that the appropriateness and publicity of this project, together with ensuring the necessary resources - around 3 million - from the Central Greece public investment programme, lay the foundations for a hopeful project to contribute to the rural development of the regional unity of Boeotia. For my part, therefore, as Minister for Rural Development, I shall immediately sign this concession - the possibility of using it for at least twenty-five years, practically supporting the efforts made by both the local government and the regional government of Central Greece. Of course, I repeat what I said at the outset, namely that we expect and will monitor whether or not they will comply with these commitments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Tibetan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Listening positively to the Minister's reply, I would like to ask, when he says that it is the Ministry's priority to follow the course of the implementation of the protocol between the Region and the Agricultural University, that I should like to ask, as regards the timetable for the granting of this property and the implementation of the objectives which you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u82	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, the services have already gone ahead and since you made the request, the file - I would say - is in the lobby of the Minister's office. From there on, what I want to emphasise once again is that we are open to debate and we want to resolve all these issues. We too, in particular by setting up the Agency for the Management of Rural Property and the Public Property, have opportunities, but we always have the means to monitor and, above all, not through the purposes we have found. I am not referring to the fact that there have been concessions of use and ownership. In fact, looking for us, we got to the point that we didn't find a stone to have entered the specific areas for hotel units. I do not want to provoke, but it is a matter that concerns us, because we want to house, collect public property in rural areas, to serve our policies, let alone when there is a great need to strengthen young people in this activity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Minister. We continue with our first question with the number 2254/22-12-2017 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou before the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: "They need additional contributions to thousands of free professionals because of government inertia - to proceed immediately with their netting". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is a well-known issue, but on which you are either not giving answers or trying to mislead yourself with make news. The question is specific: you illegally retained 300 million from the free traders as increased insurance contributions. And while the incomes on the basis of which you had to calculate the contributions were 2016, you did it for 2015. And while you have at times said that next month there will be a set-off, it has been months and months since. It has changed calendar year and set off has not been seen by the free professionals. Do you intend to do this? Are you going to return this money to people, which you illegally withhold?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kegeroglu, the New Democracy at its 11th conference announced that it was decommissioning insurance from the public system and one can choose private insurance instead of public policy. Let me see when the Change Movement and the JRC will denounce, which said before we increase contributions, and when the people will rise up against these prospects, which New Democracy reserves for the social security system. The make news is from you. You're saying we've kept over 300 million. But the system counts what one pays more and what is less. I would like to inform you - and, finally, let it be written by the media - that, by the unpaid - workers, nothing has changed - 663 million fewer contributions are paid each year in total. So the 370 million more you say, they don't exist. Less contributions are paid. They're approaching 2 billion euros by 2021. In fact, from farmers we have the figure that 36% of these pay a lower contribution than the third insurance category, which paid increased contributions in the past. Even farmers, gentlemen of the Communist Party of Greece, pay smaller contributions. Do not create a frame picture, because we do not support the social security system with such impressions that we create, impressions that do not lead to a stronger effort being made to be all together in public social security, but we reinforce trends that prepare the ground that the New Democracy wants to cultivate for the collapse of the social security system. Mr Kegeroglu, three hundred and seventy thousand in total insured persons pay the minimum contribution, because we have, with L.4387, given the possibility of partial payment. In other words, insured persons may pay a lower amount than they will actually pay in liquidation. And they chose 30% of farmers, 22% of free professionals, 24% of scientists, to pay the minimum contribution. So there is no danger that these people have paid more. Three hundred and seventy thousand insurers have chosen this possibility that the law has given and is with insurance and insurance capacity all of them. It has also been possible - and this is the mandate, which is respected by the ETUC - until the liquidation is done, all of them with insurmountable information and competence. There is therefore no such picture as you say and there is no problem. The liquidation will, anyway, take place in March and any disputes will be repaid in April. I'll give you some details in my denture. There will be no real difference and I will explain why. And in January - because January is the month paid in February - it will be calculated on the basis of the contributions to be paid, according to the calculation of the minimum income it has received from 2016. So it will be observed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Petropoulou, do you recognize the photograph here? Is that you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u90	It's far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u91	It's far away. I'll send it to you now. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. In this regard, the Commission notes that the French authorities have not submitted any comments on the compatibility of the measures with the internal market. In two months the set-aside will have been effected.’ He means November. We're in February. Why haven't you made him even with your false news? But if the news that you're creating is false, how can it be done? You have now said something incoherent, regardless of the question. You started off at the Volbian conference, and you came to tell us that they're already choosing insurance classes. Is it a serious discussion by a minister who knows there is no choice, but is there a specific contribution that all the charges have to pay? Is there a choice from Katrugalu and I didn't know? Can you explain the options? Listen, the question is specific: In 2016 they were declared by freelance professionals less incomes. Now, it is 900,000, 000 or 500,000, or 400,000. However, much less income has been declared. And that is the result of your tax and your general policy. But I'm not considering that. So the fewer incomes from the free professionals, which correspond to smaller contributions, which obviously should have been collected, lead to the need for set-aside. This netting, for a year you have not been doing it, illegally withholding the above amounts, and you will have to pay them in some way. Today, in 2018, based on what incomes do you receive? Again 2016, i.e. two years ago, while according to the law, you had to calculate contributions, based on the revenues of 2017. Isn't that right? We therefore want you to tell us when this netting will take place specifically. You referred to February and March. We also want you to tell us whether this money, which you illegally withdrew, will you return it to the people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u92	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Kegeroglu, I always respond to you with decency, without imputing to you inconsistency. Although I would have the opportunity to prove the discomfort you say, I do not. Don't talk like that all the time. You also represent a party, which promises a change of phrase, at least. It's too bad! You are entitled to an opportunity that you want to offer in the political scene.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u94	For the question, do you have anything to say? Let go of the sauces!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u95	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u96	Don't always talk to that inadmissibility. It is not good for the National Parliament to always choose to speak in such a way.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u97	Your way is unauthorized! Neither did the JRC ask a question, nor did the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u98	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u99	He commented earlier on the fact that we were burdening the people with Ephkas. And I explained with evidence now - because what we have been talking about, it turns out to be true - that this is not the case, because in total, the self-employed pay 663 million less this year. What am I supposed to do? You don't want me to let you know? And, on the occasion of the question, I would also like to inform you that the Communist Party of Greece, which has just made such a comment, is that it is important to abandon this argument and show the political system to the benefit of the Greek people, the dangers of the New Democracy programme, which promised a collapse of social security, because it will be possible for every citizen hereafter - when it comes and if it comes to the government to commit the people with such burdens - to choose private insurance instead of social security. This means an absolute collapse of pensions and pensions of EUR 290. What we have been saying for so long will happen is why they are preparing for the Greek people and not our own government. Finally, talk about it! You are coming and repeating things that I have proved to be point-by-point and number-by-point that there is no such matter. When I said this in September, I did not yet know that there is no problem in speeding up a netting then. It doesn't work out! And, you know, in the application of politics, you have to have the acidity to choose the right solution for every problem. We are not dogmatic, to say: 'That is what we have said and we cannot change it.' We'll change every time it takes, whatever it takes, and that's what we promised the Greek people. Everything will be changed, even what we have committed or chosen to implement, when it turns out there is something even better. We'll keep doing it. You will be bored to see us making changes, listening to the Greek people and their needs and looking openly at the consequences of the policies being implemented. That is the point that you raised to me and that is how we deal with it. There are no such differences that you say and all possibilities for better implementation of the system will be provided. And that's what we're gonna do! You will see it in the next question, which you will make to me in April, as you usually do, for the check, which you are right to ask, with constant questions. But in April there will be the next question on the same subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u100	A date in April! Ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of the relevant Foreign Ministers, the following topical questions will not be discussed: The second, with number 994/6-2-2018, is a top-cycle question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: ‘Problems in the operation of the T.A.’s Border Guard Division (T.F.) Pyonia’. Also, the third under number 979/5-2-2018 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "An unsatisfactory intervention of the leadership of ELAS with regard to the rally participants". The ninth under number 921/23-1-2018 topical question by the MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on "Questions about the case of an agent based on the revelations of P. Kammenos". Nor will the sixth question, number 964/1-2-2018, be discussed in the context of the first-round question by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the burial monument of Amphipolis. At the same time, there will not be a debate on the sixth question of the second question of the MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Antonios Syrigos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: “Rescue the historical cemetery of Agios Georgios Ermoupolis Syros”. We move to the third with number 963/31-1-2018, a timely question for the first cycle of the MEP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on “In a dead spot, three years later, the road “Patra - Tower””. However, Mr. Kutsuko, some announcements were made the other day. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, you have been an accomplice to the continuing false complaints since you took the responsibility to report them...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u102	I'm a partner?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u103	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u104	In what sense?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u105	In the sense that you took the responsibility of presenting them to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u106	I told you the other day that I didn't judge them, I didn't judge exactly what they were. I told you it was at the conference. That's what I told you to include in your question. Now the rest is mostly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. [[Noise in the Chamber]] When I tabled the timely question, Minister, your new announcement, to which the President referred, did not mean that the projects will begin in the summer. However, if we look at the history of your announcements, we will find that since spring 2015, when you canceled a tender and split it into eight contractors, you declared - in particular on 20-4-2015 - that within the next two-and-a-half months, that is to say by the end of June and the beginning of July, there will be competitions normally and that in October, November, we will also have the European Union's approval for the great project. These were declared in the spring of 2015. In November 2015, you declared that the projects would start in 2016. In 2016 on 29 August you declared that the auctions will be held by the end of 2016. I've got your places here on the file. I've got you in your pockets here. And one year later, on 2-6-2017, you said that the auctions are over in 2017 and the contractors will be invited to bear bail letters. Now, one year later, you say that works start in the summer. Can anyone believe you? Who are you addressing? In any case, you put Mr Tsipras in Patras the day before yesterday to blame Mr Samaras for answering the report and saying that as soon as the dossier comes from the European Union, we will begin. First - first, Mr. Tsipras, as usual - six second - nature, does not tell the truth, for the fact that the work on Samaras was answered is true. However, the fact that the project was auctioned with Minister Chrysochidis in the autumn of 2014 and that the deadline expired in March 2015 and you cancelled the tender, Mr. Tsipras did not say so. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Therefore, Minister, given all this inconsistency of yours, but also information that has been leaked from our representatives in the CEDEFOP, that the European Commission has serious objections to the adoption of the dossier, we are asking you what will happen with the project and what the timetable is. We want an answer as substantiated as possible, not to become like the previous ones, because I do not want to come after six months and say to you, "You were saying the same again."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u108	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. It's not time, obviously, is it? Mr Koutsoukos would allow me to say a few things about the reports he made before I went to the point of the case, because when he went to school, he was taught that'repetition is the mother of all learning'. It has been asked before, I have answered, and I will say it again, as far as a few basic concepts are concerned. First, you continue to use the term ‘sharing’. I would really like to say to you again what the directive says, what the law that has been passed and the Democratic Alliance has been passed on to its particular articles, and why it says so. In the new directive, therefore, it is preferable that large projects should be singled out, but that they should come out with multiple competitive procedures in separate sections. Why has the European Commission done this through Directive 23 and 24? Because he observed that particularly in the southern countries there was a accumulation of large projects in the large companies and came and said that when a major project can come out with multiple competitive processes in separate sections, it should come out like this. So what we rightly condemn as partition is when there were 'greys', 'blacks', the so-called'saxon-five' and others, which were commissioned, by means of unsolicited tenders, by such procedures. There's no such thing as that. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, you will give me some more time to get everyone informed and we will all have the same level of information. And because in the Patras tower we have fully implemented European legislation, I will prove to you two things, Mr Kutsukouko, today: The first is that, if we did not do exactly what we did, with the criminal indictment of the Samara government, it would never happen. The second is what happened before. Quickly: In 2013 the review decided to exclude the Patras - Tower - Tsakona, as you know very well. I'll testify for the Minutes. Immediately it was his endurance from the NSRP. So we flew the bone and kept the fillet in the concession in 2013. You voted for this, and as far as I know, the Ilias MPs then all the wings gave battle to come out as a public task. Let's see, then, what you did with the battle you fought and the way this piece of work came out. The first is that he didn't surrender, like the rest of the highway. If you had not answered it, it would obviously have been delivered as the Corinth - Patra section was delivered. How did you go to take off this project that you say "the autumn 2014 competition existed" etc.Huh? So the tender would have been as you had predicted only by seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven companies in two stages. The first stage was the submission of participation and their control, and in the second stage the tenderers, who would be accepted, would be subject to economic bids. A prerequisite for what you had approved was that the project would be integrated as co-financed by the European Commission's programme. I will give you the relevant documents then so that you can have access. The economic bids of the tenderers would therefore be at the price of a lump sum. The Greek State, i.e. it was neither committed for quantities nor for the budget. What for? Note that a company that did not participate in the Olympian Road Consortium made insurance measures - I will also present them - and obviously the rest of them that were inside had a comparative advantage, because they had done the study, they knew better about the quantities, they knew better about the project, they had access to everything. So, then, we'll see if the company was right, which made insurance measures, and would stop the project. So the work stopped, because if it hadn’t stopped in court it would take us many years. Was this company right? Let's see. The analytical budgets currently made have three hundred twenty - six to three hundred seventy - six articles. In other words, during the time the honourable Member says, studies were carried out, because some studies were not complete, some had no quantities, some had them. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] What's found, Mr. Kutsuko? Some tens of millions more were found at random. In other words, when they went to auction the works with detailed prices and quantities, so as not to have a problem with the competitive processes, it was suddenly found that there had been a lower estimate of inert materials, that another space needed to get inert materials and quite accidentally in the area had been cumulated - as you also know, why you are following what is happening in the prefecture - from cleansing in the other side of the prefecture of large quantities of inert materials, which arrive to do all of Olympia. This all probably leads to the conclusion that the company, which submitted insurance measures and wanted to drop the competition, would be entitled to it, but we're going below.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u110	Leave something for dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u111	I have a second talk. All right, Mr President, I'll tell my dentistry not to be outside the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u113	Seven minutes, with the tolerance of the Bureau - and good - and we did not get an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u114	I have more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u115	Answer whether the project will be done and when, we didn't get it. Because what the Minister has now said, to justify the disastrous decision of the government to cancel the project, did not tell us at the time when he was reassuring the citizens. I have here his statements in the Minutes on 20-4-2015 that the auctions are over and the work will begin. It has been repeated three times since, once every year. Minister, you argued in favour of an appealing company...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u116	Oh, in favor of a company!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u117	You entrepreneured, taking part in a company. That you canceled a contest to take part by several "kubbarians" and get the first four contractors known as Mr. Kalogritsa are well known. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Tell SYRIZA colleagues who are protesting, that Mr. Tsipras is not the owner of blood spilled on this road with fatal accidents every week. So your question is this: in view of what you have criminally done to date, now that we are talking about, we assume that the European Commission approves the file and that what we have heard is not true of the 60% discounts, that it has objections to partitioning, because you first made partitioning and then the directive comes, that the Court of Auditors will approve the contracts, that Mr Kalogris will find the guarantees, that you do not tell us. The contracts will therefore be signed and the work will begin. I tell you your scenario, which so far you do not have the credibility to defend. Can you tell us when the project will end? Forty-two months are the provision of contracts, and in any case, we are not sure that the contractors' commitments are valid because they have been in the nine months' time. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] As a result, when we arrive at 2023, the ESRB will be completed. It will have exceeded the type ‘n+2’. So the financing of the project is at stake. Can you explain that to the citizens? I repeat that, even with your own, the best scenario, which you are charging three years' delay, that you are charging the criminal act of canceling the project, we have arrived here today. Can you tell us what will happen to the people? That's the question. That's not what you're answering. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u118	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, I would ask you not to count your time, because Costas Scandalidis has also entered the Chamber. Former comrade, Yannis Koutsoukos, when the contractors' cartels were set up and we told them, you were slaughtering us as a trade unionist at the Technical Chamber, supporting those who put together the cartels of the contractors and the "kubbers" because you do not know us. Then you were also responsible, if I remember well, for the elections of the TEI. That's what you're describing. Now let's go to the next one. First and foremost, to see the crime you've done by pulling this section out of the concession. And because you're plundering - and I'm finishing the same school with you - the blood that falls into Patras towers your own hands you took off the department. And I'll explain why. So since you took it off, it was re-entered either by a competition or by two, in the crisis of the institutions of the European Commission, not by the terms of 2006 and 2007, which Mr Souflias had put it, in the wrong way, but on the terms of today. You also gloss when you say that the directive came out after the competition. Oh, no. The directive came out when you passed the law of Hatzidakis and instead of harmonising Greek legislation with the new directives, you harmonized it with the old, serving neoliberal logic. Let's go now. What did you do? What's the crime? So crime is that, in accordance with the European Commission's new standards, a project, specifically road construction, is judged when the limit on average traffic is 20 000 per day. Exceptionally, Greece is in the fifteen thousand vehicles. So for you to understand and why the delay is - because there is a delay - if today we went to do the motorways and the European Commission could assess them all, 35% of the motorways could join. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, if my colleague agrees, I have the tolerance to get together here and to have the same level of information. They have therefore come from the beginning and a cost-benefit assessment study has been carried out and a justification for whether this project is sustainable, for the European Commission to approve it. The traffic loads have fallen very much in relation to what was stated in 2006 and 2007, you know that because we do not need to officially say how much the figures for 2006 and 2007 were, and that is why parts of the physical object of the motorways came out, both in Olympia and in E65 out. And that's why E65 is afflicting the country to start, for the same reasons, for the crimes that have been committed. So let's go now to the next one. The applications for funding are made and the European Commission is asking for the whole process to prove that the project is going out with the fifteen thousand. This is why the European Commission has the 'JASPERS' body. The ‘JASPERS’ body for Brussels is the technical adviser to which the European Union assigns control over requests for funding. The JASPERS team during the audit informed the Management Authority and the Ministry's Road Infrastructure Directorate - the Management Authority is at the Ministry of Development, the other is at Transport - that according to the tactical, applied to the new programming period by the services of the European Commission for all countries for co-financed projects, to assess the additional scenario of the new Patras - Tower Road Axis, with reduced geometric characteristics, as well as the upgrading scenario of the existing axis. In two words, not only can it demonstrate the viability of what we were going to do, namely a two-lane motorway and a two-lane loop in the middle, but it may run a second scenario - because in their opinion it might not have come out - which would not be by dirt, but it would be a strip and a lane and a lane and a lane on the other hand, or it would be a bit to build the existing road. Is that what you wanted for the Patras tower road? Is that what you wanted, to understand the consequences of disobedience? All this time, therefore, the services of both the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Infrastructure carried out all these studies. We have the JASPERS report - here it is - I will put it together with all the rest - which is positive, approves and evaluates cost-effectiveness - for the benefit of the motorway. After all this adventure, in which you put the country, the request for funding left the Ministry of Economy on 12 December - I will also give you this to see - and we are waiting for the answer. We're trying to get the answer earlier. If they do not respond, in accordance with the procedures laid down by the European Commission, until 12 March, they shall be deemed to be approved. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] So let's go see the timeline you're looking for. If we have no answers - which is the worst scenario - by 12 March with a positive recommendation from the technical advisers of the European Commission, immediately after the services have been called upon to invite the contractors to bring the guarantees, to go to the Court of Auditors and then the dates are by law. If a company can't bring the bailouts, you'll go to second. If the second one can't go to third. You know that, I guess. An additional reason why there was a delay - because we honor local communities - was that a number of settlements in the Achaea Prefecture wanted an alternative route that we examined. The alternative, apart from the very long delay, has had a very heavy financial burden. So, he still didn't get the play out. One contractual solution, the existing one, which has been chosen, is at EUR 90 million. The other engraving demanded by residents is at 170 million euros. But on the basis of what I told you, what would happen if we continued the competition with the companies in the 7th grade. You understand that apart from taking the project, it's much lower. I mean, in Olympia, it was 0%! Where there is a major project contest, because competition is limited, you don't have a 50% discount. So when you go to carry out a sustainability assessment and you have a 10% discount or 20% discount, would we ever get approval from the European Commission? Never! When comparing the sustainability study, you say: "I'll give so much money. What money? Competition procedures’. So if we didn't have that reduced cost...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u120	My Minister, let's get it together.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u121	Mr. President, excuse me. You are absolutely right, but you must be officially informed of what Mr Koutsoukos already knows.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u122	You know, because it's following a bill, and we have Chickn-five, which is why we need to be shortened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u123	I shall conclude, Mr President. Because by muddling you said once again about 'barbares', I will not now comment on the current news. But because you have the courage, why don't you go to some principle of justice and report these? We because you have been saying this for three years now - there has been a competition for the channels that you wanted to defend and those who already had a licence - we have done so. I'll testify. I'll show you what I sent to the auditors, the prosecutors, everywhere. You should also be informed of the decisions he made. If you and a part of the New Democracy don't dare - because I don't want to equate everything - we did. We don't have anything to fear. If you think it's a gray thing, why don't you go to justice and come here every three months and throw mud in the fan?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u124	Good. We're closing up with this. As you have them in your hands, Minister, please put them in the Minutes so that Members can take them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, I am tabling all the documents on what I have said. Get them up to date, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u126	He told us about money, but he didn't tell us if the road was going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u127	It's going to be the road, Mr. Kutsuko. It's gonna happen. I'm sorry we're gonna disappoint you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u128	We're closed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty-three students and students and three educational attendants from the 133rd Municipal School of Athens. Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-three students and students and an educational attendant from the 28th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Finally, I would like to inform you that because Mr Bored did not remove questions by mistake, I have to do so now. The second, with number 995/6-2-2018, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “Destructive consequences of illegal immigration to the port of Patras”, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The fifth question, under number 978/5-2-2018, is a second-round question from the Vice-President of the Parliament and MP, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the exception of multiple sclerosis from the list of incurable diseases, will not be discussed due to a stumbling of Mrs Ahchioglou. The seventh question, with number 1004/6-2-2018, on the second question of the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the workers at the 'Europe' distribution agency, will not be discussed because of Mrs Ahtsoglou's impediment. Eleventh question under number 930/29-1-2018, topical question by MP, Athens, the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Union - Rural Partnership of Trikala” (ESAF)”, will not be discussed because of Mrs Ahtsoglou's impediment. The tenth third, with number 917/23-1-2018, is a topical question for the second parliamentary party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Protection and safety measures for the life and health of workers in the shipbuilding area", will not be discussed due to an impediment by Mrs Ahtsoglou. You have your honor. Also, the twelfth under number 926/26-1-2018, a topical question for the second session of the Greek Parliamentary Party, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Do you trust Matthew Nimic as a special Ombudsman of the United Nations on the Skopje question?" will not be discussed because the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Ioannis Amanatidis, is absent. The fourth under number 971/2-2-2018, the first question of the Greek National Minority of Skopje, the Greek National Minority of Skopje, will not be discussed due to a workload of Mr. Kotzias. We're done with the deletion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u130	What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u131	I want to protest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u132	Mr Katsotis, with the elasticization of the Rules of Procedure, here you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. So I strongly protest about the practice of the Minister of Labour. From taking up her duties she has been taking a deceiving attitude to questions relating to the barbarity experienced by workers in the workplace. She doesn't answer those questions. But also in time when, while it is required by the Rules of Procedure to come, it does not usually come to give answers, invoking miserable obligations. The question that was about today, which I have, is postponed for the second time, like the rest of my other colleagues, and which concerns serious issues. My question concerns the reduction of the wages of up to 40% by means of an operational contract in the Trikala Association of Agricultural Cooperatives. The administration, taking advantage of the anti-legislative framework, despite profits, imposed this operational contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u134	But, Mr Katsotis, do not develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u135	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Minister's attitude to avoid responding shows the Government's intention to continue with this anti-government framework for collective bargaining by strengthening the associations of persons and operational contracts, by breaking even further the conditions of pay for workers' work.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, for a minute I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u137	Apparently you want to protest. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. The topical and urgent questions are asked to address immediate issues with government intervention. Let's go to the fourth time the question has been postponed, which concerns the protection of workers and safety in the working conditions in the ship repair zone, when we already have a dead and two hundred people were forced to work for asbestos dismantling on a ship when there was an opinion of the Democritus Centre that it is dangerous for their lives. Security and security measures must be taken. This is where the Minister cannot invoke a workload. So the answer to safety measures for workers is not within its duties? And we protest and denounce this behaviour. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u139	Your protest has been recorded. We're moving on to the last question for Mr. Spirtzi. In particular, the eighth question will be discussed under number 944/30-1-2018, a topical question by the Member of the Lassithi Parliament, Mr.Ioannis Plakkatakis, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Exemption from the construction of the North Road Axis of Crete (BOAK) in Lassithi". Mr. Plakyotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Spirtzi, I think we all agree in this Chamber that the Northern Road Axis of Crete is the biggest development project at Crete's level, a project on the trans-European network along with other roads in the country, and I believe that its management should be uniform. When we talk about North Road Crete, we mean from Kissamos to Sitia. Do we agree on that? So let's go now and see the history of the project. I believe that this is a development project, which should unite the Cretans and not divide them, as you are trying, not only with this issue, but with other issues that I do not want to expand at present. So what are you doing? At the Development Conference in Crete Mr Tsipras announced that the study of strategic planning will proceed. Instead, what did you do? You proceeded with the recruitment of four consultants is supposed to prepare for the tendering and concession procedures of the project, but without a register, without environmental conditions. There are no environmental conditions. You know very well that in order for there to be environmental conditions, local communities need consultation with the forests, archaeology, the region, the municipalities. There's no register. There is also no integrated traffic study. The only traffic study that exists - let me inform you - is February 2017 in eight places in Crete for a week. Is that a traffic study? Without there being a financial model, without there being a financing agreement, you are going to pre-select a contractor so that you will then proceed with the tender procedures. Mr Spirtzi, we, regardless of the process that you have followed up to date, believe that the study of strategic planning - and I think that we should all agree on that - should proceed in any case, because this study will primarily reflect the traffic study. The transport burden is needed for 12 months, because you must also take into account future developments, future projects, the airport of Kastelion. If the road is completed by Sitia, you will have to take this load, identify basic geometric characteristics and highway cross-section, space and identify the entire axis: arteries, nodes, side networks, cost-benefit study and, of course, expansion of financial models. So that's it, Mr. Spirtzi, the procedure. In addition - and I conclude with the issues of Lassithi - I would like to inform you that in Lassithi in recent years - you have seen it, because you have been Minister for a few days and you have come to launch the Sitia airport completed by the previous government, a project of EUR 30 million, perhaps of the country's most modern regional airports - what do we want? Completion of the North Road Axis of Crete to Sitia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u141	Tell the question what it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u142	You say, therefore, that Lassithi is excluded for reasons of viability. We want a concrete answer for that. One is that. Secondly, there is an environmental study called 'Good Village - Guard Bridge'. Why don't you go ahead with the final study? Thirdly, there are currently studies under way in Lassithi, which were launched between 2007 and 2009. Why don't you fund the rest of the studies? Because I hear you, Mr Spirtzi, often you talk about a new mapping of the North Road Axis - and here we want a concrete answer - will there be the Central Axis of Crete? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u143	Don't ask. You asked. Mr. Spirtzis will start answering, and he will speak seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, this is a very important issue, which is why we are waiting for specific answers and positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u145	All right, you're closed. Minister, if you want to be sharp, don't take it away from me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u146	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u147	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Placiotakis, we divide Crete because we are making the Northern Axis of Crete and I imagine - or so I interpret at least - that the previous governments have not done it because they do not want to divide Crete, because there is no other explanation. The most likely is that you have chosen not to do all these years either the Northern Axis or the Castle, or the ports or anything, so that you do not divide the prefectures of Crete. I get it now. Now I understand why you've done two miles here, three below, half the bridge in Lassithi with static problems. Now I get it. Let's see what we found. BOAK: Dispersible "chops" on a road that was designed since the 1960s, where the road was to become hotels, various activities, etc. We found ourselves in forty-two kilometers - not in a single section, scattered these, two kilometers here, three there - somewhere else to have been studies, elsewhere assigned, elsewhere nothing has been done. No one knew two years after we took over the administration, neither did the Ok who was responsible. Nobody. We found - and I imagine you'll remember it in the opening of the airport you mentioned - that there was no provision for connecting the airport. This is where questions come in. So, is there an airport somewhere off the road? We've taken out the Castelli now. There is also the road to go to the airport with a modern highway on the one hand and to the northern road towards Lassithi on the other. We are doing an airport and we do not know if we will have a way. The result? The result is this airport 'not to come', not to move. Of course there's no movement. He's got a problem with the airport.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u149	Can we turn it off?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u150	Of course not. Let's not turn it off. Alas. We will use it as we should and when we have to. So what we have done, so that it is perfectly understandable: the first is that we have made a programme agreement with the OK - I will give it to you - which has something to do with the integrated strategic study. If we waited to do the complete study of the BOK and the vertical axes, in five to six years we would again discuss here when we would take off the project contest. It is therefore much more interesting for Crete and for the place to run, the part of the northern road axis that unites the four prefectures of Crete - and Agios Nikolaos, so they are not out of Lassithi - which have sustainability studies that can move on, obviously not in the 1960s. There are signs that are not of interest to the activities that have been developed to go and tear down hotels and expropriate them. At this point, we need to improve the engraving that has existed. At the same time, the study of strategic planning including after Agios Nikolaos to Sitia and the vertical axes to Ierapetra, as well as other vertical axes, as well as the impact on the development of Crete which will have the vertical axes and all the other. Where does that look? On 26 July 2017, the Programming Convention was made again with the OAS to study the strategic planning of the northern road axis. If you look at the stages we have, we have in - apart from the first stage that is Chania - Agios Nikolaos to enter the project - the traffic study for the whole of BOAK, not only for the Chania section - Agios Nikolaos, but also for the department and after the section of Agios Nikolaos and Chania, for the Kastelli Chania and for the vertical axes. So we're going to make a complete BOAK. By the way, I would like to say a few other things about Lassithi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u151	Should we leave it for dentistry, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u152	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Plakyotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Minister, we have not received any response at all. Why was Lassithi excluded? What is the sustainability study that proves that Lassithi Prefecture should not be incorporated? You don't have any clues. Bring us here the evidence to show us that it is not economically viable for Lassithi to join. But can I tell you something, Minister? Your attitude toward the Lassithi is both insulting and derogatory and is not at all serious. When you talk about streets Sitia - Lower Rahula, say this elsewhere. Citizens of Lassithi Prefecture are not citizens of the second category and you have a single and indivisible obligation to deal with the issues of Crete. But because you have no complete study or design or any financial model, you are once again trying to throw ash in the eyes of the Cretans. Why? For you are trying, for my part, without having completed environmental studies, without having a register, without engraving. And can I tell you something? Because you're talking about new rafts, all the works, the studies that are currently under way in Lassithi Law are new drawings. Why don't you fund the studies? Give me a political answer on that. Why don't you fund them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u155	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u156	The ones in progress. You don't know that he's in progress in Lassithi County in specific studies? Why don't you do that? Why don't you go ahead with the study of the Good Village - Froise Bridge, a project that, if the Panormos project does not go ahead - EUR 50 million in Rethymno, could well finance this project, which, incidentally, also has the agreement of the Municipal and Regional Council? Why don't you do all this and tell us, uh, that he's going to join the second stage? "Ask me May to eat a clover." You know, Mr. Spirtzi, words are good. Acts show it. I ask you directly: If your origin was from Lassithi, would there be problems with the viability, financing or completion of the project? You know, it seems you are used to moving to Athens alone and you do not know that this work for the citizens of Lassithi Prefecture is a work of breath. Nevertheless, we expect concrete answers, specific commitments, specific timetables. Everything else is 'other words to be loved', simply.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u157	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u158	Listen, Mr. Placiotakis, how you have honored the Lassithi. If I were a Lassithi, that is, but now that I am not - I have special friends in Lasithi - I will tell you how your prolongation has honored the Lasithi people over time. Listen. No maturity in the studies. You've pulled out a bridge for years now, and you've managed to make half the bridge, and half of it had static problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u159	Did you finish it for three years now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u160	Please. See how you honored Lassithi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u161	You didn't finish it. You were unable to complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u162	Mr. Placiotakis, don't have a dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u163	Let go. We're incompetent. We have not finished any works or anything. Luckily, there was you and you finished it all. It is judged by the Greek people and by the citizens our credibility and effectiveness. Let's see now how you honoured the Lassithiites and the people of Crete. You built dams that are holes. They're losing water. You know that, too. You built dams without the networks. You know that, too. You built airports without any way to go. Now let's see who honors Lassithi. I imagine you've gone for a walk, even have a cup of coffee in Ierapetra. If you go over there to see how honored you are, they won't tell you about the road. They'll tell you that thirty years people ask people to become a maintenance, a new water pipeline, so they don't lose their greenhouses and their operation. You didn't even do that. You have gone and asked for and discussed the plateau to become networks as a compensatory to the big dam, but you have not done that either. You are all right and honor your word. As a government, I mean, not you personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u164	You promised, Mr. Tsipras, that he would join the Public Investment Programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u165	Mr Plakyotakis, we have unfortunately found a Crete that you left in the middle of Africa. That's where you left her. You left it in Sahara in terms of infrastructure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u166	And you made it perfect!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u167	We took out the Kastelli airport after 15 years, we take out BOAK, we do the improvement works that are needed for the water supply and irrigation projects, but we are not Houdini. Magic wand doesn't do that. We've been talking to the people of Crete. Because you said things else, to tell you what we're doing for the immediate future. The irrigation network of Saint George's lake at Lassithi plateau - you set this for fifty-sixty years - the studies of additional works for the Bramian reservoir and the anti-military works of Lygia and Myrtos Damage.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u168	You don't even know how to read them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u169	Bramianou, I'm sorry. I wish we could make a mistake in the titles and do the plays. I'm so sorry, but that's what we do. As for the studies you say, they run from the agency. Nothing's stopped. And the section of Naapoli - Agios Nikolaos, which is 14 km and the section of Kakrio Chorio - Frouzi, which is 5.7 km and the bridge of Frouzi - Pachia Ammos, which is 7 km and the section of Kavosi - Achinas Akathias, which is 22 km and the section of Pachia Ammos - Ierapetra, which is 14 km and the section of Ierapetra - Mirtos, which is 15.6 km. And of course it has entered the final straight and the famous Hamezio bridge, this "Acropolis" of public works is completed. It's really an international originality when you make a bridge do half after ten years and have a static problem. Congratulations on the effectiveness of previous Governments, on the caring you have had for Lasithi and Crete in total and apologise that we will not follow you in this political tactic of the last 50 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u170	Thank you. The fourth question, with number 1003/6-2-2018, will be discussed in the context of the second question of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "In despair of thousands of seasonal workers in Rhodes, without unemployment benefits". The current question by my fellow Member will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Urania Antonopoulou. Mr Catasta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. They are indeed in desperation of thousands of hotel workers and seasonal workers in Rhodes. They suffer unemployment benefit and remain unknown when they will be paid, even though they are beneficiaries and have deposited all the supporting documents in good time. The unemployed have filed their documents in December, and although they are scheduled to be present in January, the OAED agency is sending them away and tells them to return Flevaris, which means that until then they will not be paid. The same unacceptable delay situation has been experienced by the workers in the so-called heavy industry of the country in tourism last year, which pays millions of profits to the tourism business. For workers the result has been the conditions of abstraction, the worsening of all terms of employment pay, with sixteen forms of flexible work which have so far been implemented in this area. In the summer, too, work is intensified, it is really undisturbed, and in winter they are facing this situation. The Ministry is aware of the OAED sub-secretory, which each time finds a pretext for delaying the payment of the allowances. It is completely unreasonable and conscious of the solution to the problem. It can't be termed otherwise, Minister. It is a challenge for workers to publish lists of tourist units, which are subsidised with tens of millions of euros to extend and modernise their facilities, while they have reaped from the wild exploitation of their workers and, respectively, from the workers to deprive their families of the opportunity to survive, delaying the last crumbs. We ask you what measures you intend to take to ensure that, without any other delay, the benefits of the unemployed are paid, which you maintain, at unacceptable levels, to strengthen business groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u172	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsotis, I should like to start my response - because you referred to last year's debate - where we are from this year on. You had asked questions about several islands at the time. Today: Zakynthos from six and a half thousand applications, there are two hundred fifty. Kefalonia: It's all completed. Corfu: All four and eleven thousand applications have been completed respectively. So here's no delay. So come to Rhodes. The total applications submitted are thirteen thousand thirty-seven. Those who had been submitted up to and including mid-November, i.e. before Christmas, had been completed and settled. Where are we today? Of the thirteen thousand thirty - seven applications, two and a half thousand are actually pending. Within the week of coming, precisely because this NRP has been strengthened with three more officials to be able to deal with it, the procedures will be completed and all payments will be completed by the end of the month. It is a fact - and here I agree with you - that what has happened, as we all know, is that the tourism sector has seen a great increase in recent years. So, for seasonal allowances, we have an increase of 30% and 40% on some islands over the last two years. Every effort is made. We know the deficits that OAED has. We insist that there are public bodies which are subordinated and progressively moving towards those reclassifications and locations so that the OAED can really be at the service of the unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u174	Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u175	Madam Minister, I do not disagree that in other areas the payments of these allowances to workers have been completed or intensified. However, this delay, which you are justifying because of the increase - as you say - in tourism and in seasonal allowances, cannot satisfy those who are listening to us today. They have already stopped their work since September, October or November. Now it's February and these people don't have any support. Their earnings, as we have said many times here, are at the limits of poverty, i.e. taking EUR 586 mixed. This is what employers give tourism, while here we are dizzy by millions of tourists and billions flowing in the country. Although there is a contract, it is not implemented. They've dissolved their compounds. Contracts shall not apply. It is another issue for which the government must specifically apologise to the workers, because it does not reinstate contracts, compulsoryity, better regulation and all of this, so that the workers are actually paid under the conditions to be paid. We cannot, Minister, be in February without the unemployment benefit being paid. That's what they live with. There is no house in Rhodes that does not have one or two tourist workers. How will they live? These two thousand fifty-five who are still pending - as you say - are not few. There's too many of them. You know how much this unemployment benefit people have received. It has fallen sharply to 360 euros. You have not made any hint or thoughts about whether to increase it or not, whether to increase it or not. On the other hand, we are seeing a policy which supports programmes of labour subsidies and insurance. Where? Tourism! Grant programmes for insurance and work in tourism! In other words, if this is where tourism goes well - as you say - you give billions of euros to business groups, what must be done in other sectors? To do what? Have unpaid work! You're expensive in pie and cheap in the wheat. In other words, here the workers are staying without unemployment benefit and you are giving EUR billions of euros to the logic of active employment support. We denounce these and consider that you must take immediate action so that this story can be brought to an end soon with the payment of unemployment benefits to all those who deserve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u176	Mr Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u177	It is understandable that in what you said, you are overlooking the strengthening and checks carried out by the APRC. You are not referring to positive regulations that the Ministry of Labour has made progress, so that workers who are not paid on time can claim their rights, and a number of other regulations. You reiterated the same point you raised in your question. So I will repeat my answer, Mr Katsotis. We have speeded up the procedures this year. That is why, for the majority of them, the seasonal unemployed have already seen their right to access the allowance. I repeat that for Rhodes we are now in February. Any applications submitted up to the beginning of November - I think they were 5 or 10 November - were all handled together with the Christmas allowance. The deposit was made before Christmas. Over thirteen thousand applications had been made. The pending applications, which are about two and a half thousand, are handled within the week and all the benefits to which workers are entitled, will have been paid by the end of the month. In other words, I reserve another question that you may be able to answer for others.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u178	I thank both of you because you were very consistent in time. The tenth question will be discussed under No 929/29-1-2008, a topical question by the President of Heraklion, of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenidis, to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Direct resolution on a matter relating to long-term unemployed". Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, a large number of long-term unemployed have been faced with a paradox and bureaucratic issue. For the sake of misinformation, in my opinion, and in several cases and under the responsibility of the Centre for Vocational Training, several long-term unemployed, who are proven to be part of this category - the long-term unemployed - have not submitted the required certificate to the OAS in due time, so that they are in danger of not being included in the category of long-term unemployed. A list of Crete has arrived, which is signed by about thirty people. I will not submit it for reasons of personal data from these people. These people today are hostages of this paradox: they are long-term unemployed and are suddenly in danger of being new entrants to unemployment. A number of them, in fact, do not know whether they have to re-establish a new application for a new card, risking that they themselves are not recognised in OAU registers as long-term unemployed, despite being unemployed for over 12 months and some of them are years old. In my opinion, Mr President, the current government has practically and effectively demonstrated that it is standing on the side of sensitive and vulnerable social groups. In addition to the government's overall intervention and the Ministry of Labour, in my opinion, it is making a systematic effort to resolve such issues as the daily lives of citizens. I believe, Minister, that it is not possible for long-term unemployed not to be recognised as such. I would like you, if you can, to tell us how the Ministry is thinking of giving a solution to this truly paradoxical and bureaucratic problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u180	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u181	Thank you. Mr Igoumenides, the problem you referred to is well known to our Ministry and OAED. In fact, I have answered a similar question that has been raised. So let's take things in turn: Since November we have already drawn up legislation, which is part of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour submitted by my colleague, Mr Petropoulos, on 6 February. This legislation will therefore be incorporated into this law, so all these issues that you are referring to will be closed. However, I think it is right that we should inform the House of what we have done since we realized that there was a problem. In March 2017, OAED issued an interpretative circular on the modalities of the implementation of Law 4430 including the provisions to which you refer and are discussing. This circular was then posted in the "DIAGY", was moved across the network of OAED branches and the call centre. So citizens are informed by going to the OAED, entering the OAED website or by calling. Also in the same month, a press release containing the information for each user was published on the OAED website, but it also informed and instructed the centres which offer these training services on what their obligation is to inform the interested parties, the citizens, so that they do not lose their unemployment card and the rights they have are not interrupted, whether it is the continuation of the allowance when this programme is finished, or the months that we add during their participation in these programmes, etc. It now came to our attention that, despite all these positive moves, regulations, directives, information we have had, there were some unemployed who did not have timely information. For this reason, the way in which we are now dealing with this issue is as follows: Since a person is unemployed and is part of a programme, whether in an IKK or in a short-term continuing vocational training programme, he has sixty days' scope. Within these sixty days, if we measure them properly, it includes the time that each unemployed person must return to the OAS online or live to renew his unemployment card. In this period of time, therefore, the margin will be given - that is, there is no obligation, now, to submit it before it is included in a programme or ten days after it is signed for a period of twenty days - all the time until the next time it renews its unemployment card. As far as the long-term unemployed are concerned, of course, what will apply is that retroactively they will continue to have the right - if they have been interrupted and had to go out and get a new unemployment card - to come back to the months and the long-term unemployment scheme that was in place until they joined a new programme and return to all the rights that follow long-term unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Apart from the fact that the unemployed first to want to be a job - and I imagine we agree on that - I think that the people of interest have listened to a relief today. I have to admit that this is what is being covered by the Ministry. This issue has too many aspects. Let me mention another side, which has also arrived at my office these days: There is long-term unemployed from Heraklion in Crete, which expected it to be included in the new law that we voted on for the structured environment, to legalise the building in which it was staying and to use for this the beneficial provisions for the settlement of the arbitrary, the beneficial provisions for the long-term unemployed we voted on. You know, with this last paradox, which is fortunately solved by your intervention, we even had to deal with such problems. I think, however, that many words are poverty. The Minister's answer has covered me completely and I believe that, in fact, he is solving a serious problem for the long-term unemployed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u184	Do you have anything to answer, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u185	Let me point out once again that the Ministry of Labour has the basic obligation to meet the demands of workers and the unemployed. As some of these issues come to our attention, and I thank the Members who bring them to our attention, it is our obligation to respond to the unemployed and the workers. So we're going to continue what we've already started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, too. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and three educational sessions from the 1st Glyfada General School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would also like to inform the House that the Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Home, Economic, Financial, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Rural Security and Social Solidarity, as well as the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, have tabled a draft law on 6-2-2018: 'Innovation of the Agricultural Insurance Organisation in the Agency for Benefit and Social Solidarity (OPEKA) and other provisions'. The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Also, the Ministers for Health, Rural Development and Food, Home, Economy and Development, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Finance, the Deputy Ministers of Interior and Finance, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance, tabled a draft law on 7-2-2018: "Provisions on the Production of Final Products of Cannabis". It shall be referred to the Co-legislative Standing Committees. Before entering the agenda for the legislative work, we will have a five-minute interruption. It is a request that the parliamentary representatives of the parties, the rapporteurs and speakers, and the Minister, who I know are here, should enter. After five minutes we'll start right away. The secretaries of the parties who hear me call the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u187	The sitting shall be resumed. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only a discussion and a vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Management of Protected Areas and Other Provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 1 February 2018 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and amendments. Does the House agree with this procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u188	So the House unanimously agreed. Until the new Republic's rapporteur, George Stylos, comes down from Stepma, any colleague who wants to join the Secretariat can come down here. I would first like to give the Minister two minutes, who wants to withdraw a provision from what he has told me. With the kind consent of this House, I will be allowed to give the floor to Mr Spirtzi to defend his amendment, so that we do not hold him within the Chamber until the rapporteurs are finished and we enter the procedure. Minister, you have the floor. I don't take time, because I guess you'll be short.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be very brief, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to you at the outset that the amendment will be withdrawn under a general number of 1467 and a special number 174, which concerned the hosting of stray animal establishments in forestry and grazing areas. It goes away from logic, because I want us to be quite transparent: the intention of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is that, on the basis of the bodies with responsibility, they should also be housed in forest areas - not forests - such facilities. As far as the framework for stray animals is concerned, however, it will go to the bill of the Ministry of Rural Development, which is responsible for this framework, together with the other provisions, because it is already in preparation, and will also be in consultation with the relevant framework. We do not underestimate the need for public woodland, it may be used, but we will see it in this context. Our intervention concerned only land use and no other intervention in the wider framework of stray animals. It will therefore enter a bill from the Ministry of Rural Development, which deals with this issue, because there has been a great debate since yesterday with pro-zonal organisations. We had no intention of intervening in these procedures. So, Mr President, in order to avoid misunderstandings, it is withdrawn and will return to a wider debate. For our part, the disposal of forest land as available, without altering the other provisions of landfill, remains.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u190	I have consulted the Minister on this: when he will take the floor after the speaker for his speech, I begged him and accepted it, to speak for all five others - because he was six, he left, he left five - ministerial amendments to get an early picture of these amendments. Mr. Spirtzi will give Mr. Spirtzi the floor for three minutes. So you will also have a picture of Mr Spirtzi's amendment. For the amendments, the Minister, when he speaks, will say what he accepts or does not accept at that time, so that we can also have a picture. Mr Christos Spirtzis has the floor. Minister, I'm giving you personal rushphetti, as you can see.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u191	I owe it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u192	It's also written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendment concerns the need to speed up the procedures for the development of projects in order to auction concessions which will give a positive signal to the recovery of the Greek economy, to increase employment and to the country's productive reconstruction. In particular, public procurement and public works law we had foreseen that competitive procedures could not be initiated unless expropriations and the necessary archaeological work had been carried out. In the concessions with the procedures that exist, in the first phase, we do not know, for example, what areas need to be expropriated or what archaeological work needs to be done. That is why we specialize in this amendment before the signing of the Convention. In the first phase, i.e. it is the deposit of the expression of interest, it does not have the technical elements of the project. Before the conclusion of the contract, archaeological work and expropriations were completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u194	Isn't the competition inhibited?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u195	No, it's barely easy to make. In other words, you cannot in the first phase, which is simply the expression of interest and the economic elements, to have become expropriations that you often do not know. The second has something to do with the OAS. You know the competition's running. We are ready from the end of December, as announced, to come out of the competition of the North Axis of Crete, from Chania to Agios Nikolaos. In order to do this, the responsibility must be left the Organization for the Development of Crete and come to the Ministry. So there is in the amendment and this provision is in place. The third is that, in order to facilitate roadworks, the Ministry can entrust who will do his work, whether it will be the OAS, or whether it will be the region, or if in smaller projects it will be some municipality of Crete that can, in order to deal with unwanted situations, such as having made financing for projects and not being able to implement them and have the blood tax that has not been paid for in the Northern Axis of Crete. I also have a legislative improvement concerning the following: apart from the expropriations, the approval of environmental conditions, the conditions for environmental protection in relation to the concessions I have told you before. Not only do expropriations and archaeologicals, but also environmental conditions of abuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u196	I am aware that two other ministerial amendments have not been tabled to the Bureau. As soon as they come, I'll distribute them to you. We're starting with SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr. Catherine Iglezi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We are talking today about a bill that is coming to substantially upgrade the country's natural environment policy and actions. It is a bill focused on Protected Area Management Bodies, which highlights the importance of the institution, but also a different philosophy in the production of environmental policy, a philosophy based on the principles of the Left and the ecology, which sets at the forefront the relationship between society and the natural environment. Under this draft law, the whole of the NATURA areas, marine and land, will be covered by a management body, in contrast to the surrounding situation where only eighty-nine areas, i.e. 27% of the areas, were covered. The old management bodies will extend their protection limits to approximately 65% of the country and the eight new bodies set up will cover the remaining 34%. The provisions of the draft law therefore form part of a system of protection for all regions. This bill, however, is an important part that our colleagues in opposition do not want to accept. I would like to refer to two points which I consider - and the debate in the Committee on Production and Trade - to be essential areas. Firstly, the management bodies are being established as the dominant administrative and management structure of the protected areas, which is something for which colleagues of counter-population, you have worked to avoid. For the first time, funds from the regular budget are provided to support the National System of Protected Areas. With these two areas, plus the fact that the whole NATURA regions will fall within the competence of a management body, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we are today discussing a legislation of great importance for the protection and management of our natural wealth, a legislation that upgrades the country's environmental governance. The Management Bodies of the Protected Areas were institutionalised in our country in 2002, with Law 3044 as a follow-up to Law 2742/1999, under pressure from the European Union and the threat of fines. Thus, twenty-eight management bodies were created to the limits of the responsibility of the most important protected areas in the country. The aim of this structure was to meet the need to create environmental and ecological networks that would play a strategic role in targeting, organising funding schemes and handling environmental management through consensus-forming processes. In view of this progressive role that management bodies could possess, the PASOK and New Democracy governments have led the whole project to mary and depreciation. Protection of the environment, you see, is not available for misery. The effort to establish the System of Protected Areas is dynamised over time. This is because the policies of the previous governments on nature and biodiversity were, at the very least, incomplete - disastrous - but we are now saying - and the management of the protected areas of the country has been tackled fragmentally. Inadequate environmental policy has consequences which can be assessed by numbers, ladies and gentlemen, resulting from the fines of EUR tens of million for environmental violations by the European Union, which result from the losses of the value added of the NATURA regions in the national economy. It may be that the losses from non-protection of the environment are not the size of the drug case, but it also cost us a great deal. The fact that the management bodies have been in a constant state of start-up and relaunching all these years, as well as the fact that their funding has been exclusively part of European programmes, proves how seriously you have assessed the environmental protection and its developmental roles, for which you are currently cutting off. In 2013, with Law 4109, the Samara - Venizelos government had chosen to shrink and effectively abolish their institutions, their actions and their workers. Colleagues of counter-population, you also insisted on the meetings of the Committee on Production and Trade that management bodies should be added to an already pathogenous system. You briefly reinstated the arguments you had in 2013 when you abolished by law public bodies for my enlarged state, antiquated structures, bureaucracy, waste of public money, inefficiency, etc. Colleagues, the selection of management bodies as the basic structure of administration and management of protected areas, as well as their support from the state budget, is also our fundamental political modulation. We did not follow your own neoliberal options for the environment, we do not follow the illusions about so-called green growth. We have humiliated society, the scientists of space, and our time-consuming position and our deep conviction in forming policy - and in particular environmental policy - by downward processes. For our own political view, every form of collaborative management of natural resources is a political process in itself and the structure of the management body is that of multi-level representation, where the conditions of honest and persistent local negotiation are created. And it has proved, ladies and gentlemen, that the only effective environmental management mechanism is unanimity. This ensures the effectiveness of interventions and ensures the role of operators. Management bodies are another tool for the consultation of the environmental considerations of each local society and for the implementation of cooperative management of natural resources. It is the tool that contributes decisively to the insight into every place, that the environment and its protection or the ways in which it is managed are not a brake on development but a necessary treaty. Management bodies contribute to a first level in the formulation of the development guidelines of each region, but a development, with the characteristics of justice, democracy and sustainability, which really serves social needs for quality of life, safe living environment, work and resources for the development of future generations. This is where the importance of today's bill lies. The country's environmental governance is on a solid and progressive basis, while in practice the state's constitutional obligation to protect and manage the natural environment is strengthened. In fact, it is a bill that comes to be added to a series of government environmental decisions that form an environmental policy, which is trying not only to reverse the adverse effects of policy of previous years, but it shows that it is modern with a view to the future. In particular: forest maps have been ratified for 35% of the territory, and there will soon be much more. And the process goes on. The Agency was published for the revision of the national list of regions of the European ecological network (NATURA 2000). The country's NATURA network for land areas now reaches 27.9% and is rising to 22.3% from 6.12% for maritime areas. The process of preparing specific environmental studies in the NATURA areas is under way. It is a project of EUR 17.5 million and aims to complete the specific environmental studies and presidential decrees defining land uses in the regions, as well as management plans for all regions of NATURA. The LIFE IP 4 NATURA programme was approved for our country for eight years. This is the first integrated programme for Greece in the field of nature and biodiversity. It has a total budget of 17 million. The project aims to design and implement measures in accordance with the framework of priority actions for the NATURA 2000 network. All of this, together with the change in the organisational chart of the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the establishment of a Natural Environment and Biodiversity Management Directorate, outline a structured environmental policy in this area. In a period of budgetary sighness, the RIS prioritises the Greek nature, recognises it as a real resource and as a comparative advantage of the country and strengthens its protection and management. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is a product of political will and of political vision, of a visa where the natural environment is a resource for society and a prerequisite for fair growth. The draft law clarifies the financing of the system which is extremely important for the functioning and viability of the operators. For 2018 it is planned to amount to 4 million from the RIS regular budget, while payroll will be covered by the Green Fund. In stages for the following two years, 2019-2020, it is planned to cover more of the operational costs of the entities from the State budget, with a view to including fully and subsidised from the State budget from 2021. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we insist on a structure while ensuring the best possible conditions for its operation. Because we believe that management bodies, with their environmental purpose, can have a development role and contribute to the local economy, are safeguarding the resources for their operation. We do not place the market on the main pillar of their financing, nor do we make it conditional on their economic viability being guaranteed. We believe that the state should ensure that all operators operate without exception, they have or have no revenue. And that's what we're making. At the same time, however, we are giving operators and the possibility of indirect financing from other resources, such as development programmes, local agreements, voluntary agreements and everything else. I will repeat, ladies and gentlemen, that not all operators can have the financial compensation they have, for example, bodies like Samaria, which are extremely visitable. However, there are bodies which we must support not only for their developmental footprint, but above all for their environmental and ecological significance. And that's another warning difference in our policies. Furthermore, the forecasts of this draft law reflect the way in which work is to be done to the operators. In order to function effectively, they need sufficient staff in both a number and a specialisation per subject. That is why we are defending the permanent staff of the agencies over time. However, the precarious employment situation, which you have long maintained for both specialized scientists and guardian of the regions with the continuous renewal of fixed-term contracts rather than for the coverage of permanent and regular recruitment needs, is at the end of it. In early 2019, which will have been lifted, recruitment limitations will be carried out to ensure that permanent staff are recruited to the bodies. Until then, the needs are covered by the existing staff and with eight-month contracts for 2018. However, I will repeat that we will be vigilant and claim, together with the workers, the adequate and permanent staffing of the bodies. To sum up, I would say that this bill regulates the territorial competence of the management bodies of protected areas, the headquarters and the annexes of operators. I believe that the provision for the annexes is important given the extension of the liability limits of each body and the removal of the possibility of alternative management schemes. It provides for smaller and more efficient administrative arrangements such as the seven-member management boards. Despite all the small number of members, emphasis is placed on multi-faceted representation, both of local government I and II grades, as well as civil society and the scientific community, including management, environmental NGOs and others. The aim is to pluralism and representation of all parties involved, so that democratic processes can take decisions for the benefit of local society. It gives the opportunity to set up unpaid advisory committees to assist the work of management boards and bodies as a whole. This is a regulation that upgrades the quality of environmental governance and effectively opens the debate on local and regional environmental pacts. It shall update the work of protected areas management bodies and the responsibilities of their administrative boards, with emphasis on local development and consultation issues, in parallel with environmental protection and management. It shall establish procedures for assessing the staff and the work of management bodies as a whole on an annual basis. As far as the other provisions of the bill are concerned, they concern mainly amendments to forestry legislation to solve years of problems arising from existing actions and do not in any case constitute the legalisation of new infringements of the country's forests. Ladies and gentlemen, when we legislate on the natural environment, the burden we bear is particularly important, because we are not legislating for today, but for the future of the next generations. With this in mind, therefore, if we run the bill we are voting on today, we will see that the logic of sustainability is embedded in its provisions and this is a great guarantee of bringing solutions, both locally and nationally and ultimately globally. On environmental issues, we are now being called not only to think locally, but to act thinking globally. Climate policies have taught us this very well. And with today's bill, we are taking several steps to environmental governance and protecting the biodiversity of the Greek nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u198	And we, Mrs. Englishie. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being followed by the top Western theories, after having participated in the meeting of the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs, they were toured in the exhibition of the "ENIZELOS" Hall and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, sixty-seven students and students from the School of National Defence, headed by the Governor of the School, Vice-Admiral Giakopoulos Alexander. The House welcomes them. I want you to know that the vast majority of Greek MPs are proud of you and the Greek Armed Forces and support you. Welcome! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall now proceed with the rapporteur-General of the New Democracy, Mr George Stylion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, in a society tired, afflicted, the current SYRIZA - ANEL government is investing in slandering, investing in the creation of mud, investing in splitting, investing in creating other dilemmas and other issues, in relation to the political scene in our country. So since today's government has won power to promise everyone everything, after throwing the sacrifices of all previous years into the sea, having brought two unjustified memorials and austerity, it now comes to invest in the lower instincts and in the anger of society, playing the game of moral and immoral, honest and dishonest, of clean and corrupt, of evil past and of the good future, without any commitment of interest. In fact, the political system as a whole, intervening in institutions, in justice, is cultivating an antisystemic culture in which the exercise of any policy will be in vain. Now what are the characteristics of the good and the moral future that you, as you say, express? And your political project is a repetition of the past: State, populism, partnership with the ANELs, with nationalistism, with a little compassion and friendly. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government in this light exercises its policy on all matters. And in today's bill, your proposal is one of the same: the bad past, which did not have the same sensitivity to the environment and workers, who have not offered anything in recent years, that his policies have only brought about. And today the SYRIZA - ANEL government came on the chariot of anti-immemorial populism to effectively solve the problems. Before this mess! Today, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has the political will. The previous ones did not have it, and they wanted to drag the problems. The current government is sensitive and humiliated by the citizens. All the previous ones were unexplained and cruel. The current government has no commitments. All the previous ones served interests. The current government has proper know-how. The rest of them were ignoring her or hiding her. This is how the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is dealt with, completely superstitious, fragmentingly, without continuity and sense of the effort already made, whether it is the current bill, the forest maps, either the bill on education, the red loans or any other bill. Instead, ladies and gentlemen, to build on what has been done by putting its own political touch on it, it is coming to start from the beginning. Result? It legislates and after a few months it abolishes what it has legislated before and over - it legislates. We saw it before. An amendment was tabled by the Minister and even before the debate began, the same amendment, which bears the signatures of four government ministers, was withdrawn to go to another bill. Is that not the truth, and is that an excuse? Have there been many reactions? Have there been reactions from ecological organizations, and that is why the amendment has been withdrawn? It is no harm at some point to say that there has been no dialogue. The worst of all, ladies and gentlemen, is that it reproduces the same model of the past: Expansion of the state without a plan and perspective, without any study of how existing structures can work better. Legislation by the government on the basis of trumped-up. We are building new bodies, we find a solution to cover the costs for the first two, three years and we leave the solution for the next one, which will be called upon to manage an unsustainable situation in a suffocating financial framework. This policy has been followed everywhere. All problems in the country were dealt with in this way: with a little more state. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's draft law, they are proposed instead of twenty-eight management bodies for protected areas, thirty-six. On the same basis, in some years, in a subsequent bill, after consultation, institutions may become forty - six or fifty - six or one hundred fifty - six. Where does it turn out that the more, the better? Why only thirty-six and why not tomorrow fifty-six? Anybody who asks you for an organization is making it without a plan and an organizational chart. I've explained the reasons for that. We, ladies and gentlemen, believe in another model, with thirteen agencies, as much as the administrative regions of the country, by absorbing already existing staff, with permanent regular jobs, with synergies, with municipalities, with regions, with the Forest Service, with the Port Authority, with cooperatives, with producer groups, with chambers, i.e. with the participation of local society, with research bodies, with universities, with TEI. Let us see, then, how operators can function effectively in cooperation with structures that already have the know-how, from continuing to create new patterns, new structures, which we are then running to see how we can cover over time. This model, ladies and gentlemen, for us, for the New Democracy, has failed. There are examples, there are studies, there are European experiences of how many already existing bodies can be absorbed by the thirteen new bodies within the regions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been accused by the government of the fact that the New Democracy wanted to close the agencies. It's a big lie. We have tried to reduce the bodies, because we believe in a smaller and more efficient state, in a better state. You have accused us of the fact that, although we have reduced the agencies, we have not managed to implement this policy. You know very well that we suspended the merger of operators because they were in progress and had to close the European programmes of the ESDP. That's the truth. You have accused us of leading the workers to unemployment. How many have we fired, ladies and gentlemen? How many were fired in New Democracy? You, who are so sensitive to the government, that you have the monopolies of the heart, that you love the workers, and we hate them, why do you not monetize them? Why, ladies and gentlemen of the government, did you let it spend two years in 2015 and 2016 without organising the next day? Why didn't you open the recruitment of permanent regular staff in 2017? Why do you leave the experience of scientists, skilled executives, people who have provided their services for up to ten years to be lost to the specific management bodies? We'll tell you, proceed to the recruitment of permanent regular staff now. Why don't you do it? I'll tell you, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, you don't care about the workers. You don't care about the workers. It's a tool for you. You're building new structures, like everywhere, you don't care how they work, whether they work, what they do. You will hire contractors and you will keep them in a political hostage, promising simulation in 2019 that will be a pre-election year if you can withstand until then. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said before in committee, this draft law has some basic points. What do we consider to be the main points? First, the selection of management bodies as the most appropriate administrative and management structures for the NATURA 2000 network areas. Secondly, the integration of NATURA 2000 regions which have so far not been subject to the management system to the bodies, of course you also know well, Mr Minister, and we have also said so in committee. It is necessary to harmonize and came after the need to harmonise European legislation. In addition, I would like to say that many of the positions and criticisms we made in the committee were heard by the Minister and accepted and included in the bill. I can mention, for example, that the management bodies will be able to deliver a reasoned opinion and provide information on the procedure for drawing up the management plans for their regions. They will be able to draw up reports on the results of the actions presented in the management plans, organise consultation on the environmental study training process, support and promote local products in the primary sector, build quality, origin, etc., assist scientific research on protected areas and some other provisions, as I believe in the draft law following our criticism in committee, provide the administrative and technical support of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy with regard to the Nature 2000 Committee. Minister, the main objectives of the draft law should be to manage biodiversity, protect the national natural capital in terms of sustainable development and fulfil the country's obligations regarding the European ecological network of NATURA 2000. The choice of how the protected areas are managed should be made in the light of their ability to provide and effectively protect the natural environment, to function as a lever for the development of the area and to ensure their viability. As the bodies called on the committee responsible, this draft law does not fully clarify the role and role of the management bodies of protected areas. The role of the management bodies of protected areas is confused with the public services which exercise management and protection functions of forest ecosystems. In the past, there has been a point of friction. With the introduction of a bill, this is an intensified issue. Moreover, many bodies, including the Chamber of Agriculture of Greece, had asked the Ministry of the Environment and Energy to exist before the draft law was tabled in the House, extensive and thorough exchange of views and cooperation between all the services involved and scientific bodies, in order to avoid problems of confusion and overlapping of responsibilities that will make it difficult to protect and manage the environment efficiently. This has never been done, ladies and gentlemen. It should be noted that without the operational and organisational issues of management bodies, the size of their area and area of responsibility is increased. In other words, the workload is increasing without the draft law to provide solutions to the issue of permanent and permanent staffing of existing and new management bodies of protected areas with the staff required. I know you're gonna tell me about the eight-month contracts. I know and you know very well that the existing staff will have to be outside the management body for four months, outside the job. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft legislation is not an essential reform. It is simply a product of delayed harmonisation with Community directives, and it creates improper state structures. It does not deal with the essential problems that have led to chronic malfunctions, while on the contrary creates additional structures with the creation of eight additional management bodies covering the whole of the country based on the Community obligation. However, without the essential treatment of the pathogens of the existing management system, there will be no effective protection. We say 'no' in principle, as the bill is handy and skin-like. It does not cure any of the problems experienced by the management bodies of protected areas. In particular, it does not cure and improve the duplication of competence, adequate transparent and efficient management of nature and the environment, adequate transparent and effective management of the resources allocated to the management bodies of protected areas, the stability in employment of existing personnel, the lack of a sustainable development plan that protects and highlights the protected areas of NATURA, the inability to attract visitors and bring revenue to the management body of protected areas, local society and the national economy. Available resources are falling. No organisational charts are presented for the institutions. How many will be employed? On what criteria will they be recruited? How will they be evaluated by whom? No reference shall be made to transparency mechanisms in how management bodies operate. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said before in my speech, we have another philosophy for protecting the environment, for the NATURA 2000 areas. We believe in thirteen management bodies based on the thirteen administrative regions. We believe that they should continue to function as legal persons of private law for the greatest possible flexibility and be in the region concerned, run by paid councils, the President should be full and exclusive and not be designated by the government, but be consulted and public invitation. The existing bodies and existing staff should be absorbed into the thirteen new structures to be created on the basis of organograms and a simulation. In simple terms, ladies and gentlemen, and I am closing down with this, we must end the hostage of workers in management bodies and create an effective, organised system whereby the NATURA and the environment can be protected. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to give the floor for three minutes to Mr Santorini, as the two new ministerial amendments came in order to support them because it has been made up. I would ask that they be distributed, if they have not been distributed, to colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, I too would like the floor to support my amendments and to table them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u202	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. The amendment, which we are tabling, relates to the extension of the Common Ministerial Decision of 1 June 2018, which implements Article 139(5) of the Law 4504 of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. In particular, Article 139 provided that the grants from our Ministry of Finance to carry out routes in any form of public service assignment are not granted, are not subject to any kind of retention and are not offset by any public or insurance debts in order to ensure the claims of the employees of those companies, the land staff. The activation of this arrangement requires the adoption of a common ministerial decision of the Ministries of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economics and the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. I would remind you that this regulation is the first time that such a process of safeguarding and performance is taking place, in fact, of workers on land on board and in practically following a regulation already brought about by our own government, a legal framework for workers and seafarers, has already relieved many families of seafarers. The adoption, therefore, of the relevant joint ministerial decision establishing the new regulatory framework in accordance with Article 139(5) of Law 4504, because it contains several economic issues and specific texts, such as, for example, entrustment of debts, submission of several supporting documents, requires us to postpone this date of issue for 1 June and we therefore table this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Famelos has the floor. I don't give time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u205	I won't need two minutes, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said in committee, we are now tabling the legislative improvements relating to the annexes - I told you that they will be put into plenary - the law on demarcation of the areas, the list of names and all these issues, which I had already informed you in committee. I would also like to say to you that in addition to two completely functional changes in words, Articles 12 and 13, Article 18 is recast and I would like a little attention to that. It is being augmented and put as - if you would like - a time before which the nature of a forest area could have been changed, not only its inclusion in the NATURA 2000 Network, but also its declaration as a national park and the inclusion of the wetland in the area as the Ramsar Treaty. So we're going to the first time report that for some areas starts in 1938, with royal decrees. If acts of change of use have taken place after the first declaration, they cannot be included in this scheme. I would also like to clarify that, where it relates to administrative acts which are withdrawn, it concerns administrative acts only for agricultural use. Administrative operations for arbitrary constructions or other arbitrariness are not revoked and remain as are all concerning areas which, after the declaration of these areas, have come to NATURA or to Ramsar. We are strict and typical as Environmental Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u206	Minister, what about the arbitrary buildings?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u207	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u208	I said earlier that all this concerns only agricultural holdings. Other interventions, which do not concern an agricultural holding, shall not be withdrawn or amended by this provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u209	We shall now proceed with Mr Georgios Arvanitides from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, I would like to ask a question to Mr Santorinio.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u211	Mrs Manolakou, I can't get the speaker down now. Once it's done, I'll gladly give you the floor. Mr Arvanitides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the SYRIZA rapporteur for the bill and say to her that you do not have ownership of environmental sensitivity, no matter how privileged a policy area. Moreover, the flags of the Left for institutions and democracy, for workers and rights and for the environment, have killed them first and foremost with the manipulations, even in the last few days. I hope that, from your 'no' policy of the past few years, you will not go to'regulating everything'. Because there are also such views: we are reaching a point of zero everywhere, to start this best policy we have. Moreover, you must remember that management and environmental protection were policies of the late 1990s, it was a PASOK project and then there began to be consultation and discussion with local and regional communities. At that time, they began to have experience of today's executives, through the experiences they have gained, the management bodies, and then there were also partnerships between environmental organisations, non-governmental organisations and the state and in many respects they have shaped these policies. However, this cycle has closed - and I agree - and we need to improve the situation. Minister, after a very productive debate in the Committee on Production and Trade, we have before us a bill with significant improvements, which I think contributes positively to better protection of the protected areas. That is why we will vote 'NAI' at first instance in the bill. I would like to begin with my position with the improvements we have tabled as Democratic Incorporation in the committee and have been accepted by the Minister with legislative improvements. The first issue concerns the participation of Protected Area Management Bodies in the preparation of management plans. This is a very important improvement, which will lead to realistic and practicable management plans. I stress this because, with the initial wording of the bill, we were at risk of going to the establishment of management plans, in the absence of the bodies which will be called upon to implement them, with a risk that these plans would have been out of reality and that there would be an ever-increasing need for corrections and modifications. Here, therefore, an important safety net has been introduced in Article 4, which will help us not to start these plans from scratch, but to build on the knowledge and experience that the existing bodies have already acquired for many years. The second issue concerns how the Management Bodies operate. I have often spoken to the committee about the risk of being in front of two-speed bodies, bodies dealing with making use of valuable resources from the NSRP and institutions that would be sufficient to provide state funding. In this direction we have called for security folds to be introduced, which will ensure a minimum common stepping-up of management bodies across the country, and of course we have called for the coordination and effective role that the Ministry of the Environment and Energy must play in the bill. I think that with the legislative improvements to Article 10, Mr Minister, both conditions have been met. I am referring to the standards, specifications and recommendations that the Ministry will issue, both on matters relating to the administrative organisation and financial operation of the Protected Areas Management Bodies, and on issues relating to the collection of scientific monitoring data and implementation of management plans. The third relates to the procedure for setting up the notable advisory committees, such as the one set up to assist the Thematic Gulf management body. Here with the legislative improvement referred to in Article 6, it is ensured that these committees are set up following a recommendation from the management body concerned in order to substantiate this decision from real needs and not to set up committees everywhere for the purpose of impressive or communication management and consumption. The fourth and final point concerns the Commission's support for nature 2000. I think it is very important to add paragraph 6 to Article 10, so that this committee has the necessary technical and administrative means to fulfil its obligations, including the evaluation of the implementation of the management plans by the relevant bodies. In this way, the Ministry will be able to have a clear and reliable picture of the problems that arise in order to move on to targeted interventions rather than going to solve specific problems with general rules, which we are doing all the time. With this in mind, then, we are voting in principle on the draft law, as we shall vote positively on many articles. I now come to a number of more specific issues, Mr Minister, which are still open and I think we have time to see and improve them. I'm starting with the workers. You told the committee that you found a way to overcome the problems and that people who currently work in the management bodies of protected areas should continue to work in the new environment created by the bill. I respect this argument and recognize your intention to solve the problem. However, since we are not sure of the end result, we are obliged to vote 'PARA' in Article 11 and in Article 7. I wish you could make it and disprove our concerns. Here we will be looking at it, evaluate it and check the evolution of the subject. I now come to Article 4, which defines the powers of the new management bodies. I told you in committee, Minister, to repeat the wording in case (c) of paragraph 1. I am referring to the content of the evaluation reports that will be carried out by operators for every three years. So, as is the article, it seems that the Minister will dictate to the bodies the content of the reports, that is, tell them what to write. As I imagine that you do not have that intention, Minister, and that what you mean is probably the structure of the reports, I think you should see the wording of the article again. In Article 5, I think that the wording should be changed to dd. What we are proposing is that it be made clear in the bill that two members of the management bodies will be used in the administrative boards and, if there is no response, at least one representative of the academic community will be used. I say this because, as the article is written, it is possible for the scientific community to remain without representation to the management bodies and it is something that - in my opinion - is a serious mistake. Also, in case (d) you need to talk to environmental organisations, to see if there is sufficient personnel to be sent to each individual body. Finally, paragraph 5 of that Article provides for the replacement of a Board member who is absent at three consecutive meetings. It should be laid down here that the member who will replace it will come from the same institution. This is not clear at the moment and I did not see any provision in the legislative improvements that you had brought and had been known until a moment ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u213	I think that's corrected, but we'll look into it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u214	I'm glad you're in this direction. Recently, Minister, the Government gave you incentives to civil servants serving in mountain and insular areas, such as free feeding and appropriate accommodation. You told us in the committee that the forest workers do not have the same working status as the workers who joined Article 349 of Law 4512/2018, which is why you were not disturbed by your colleague, Minister who recommended this matter. So I will tell you that this is a technical matter, Minister, and it is not a matter of substance. If you do agree on the substance of the issue we are putting as a Democratic Incorporation, if you agree that there should be an incentive to feeding and housing for forest workers who serve in mountain and island regions, then we would ask you to accept the amendment we have tabled. With regard to the other amendments tabled by the government, I will wait for the debate, the position of the ministers and, if there are any objections, I will develop them in my second language or the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for your brief but also for your essential speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u217	For just a minute, Mrs Manolakos, you have the floor to ask Mr Santorini a detailed question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, we have not yet received the amendment in our hands to read the content.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u219	Then how are you gonna talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u220	Based on what we've heard, then, we'll talk. Minister, more than EUR 1 billion has been allocated to shipowners since 2001. And I'm talking about barren lines and always with excuse and an alibi to the workers. Of course the inhabitants of the remote islands complain that they don't have ships and lines, because they find all excuses that they have damaged the ship and it doesn't get together! Antikythera had to see a ship for more than a month. But I ask you: why don't you give this subsidy directly to the workers rather than give it to the shipowners, who are not and are in line with their obligations, so that the government does not come to us every time on the grounds and extortion'sign, do you vote to pay the workers'?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u221	Mr. Santorinier, you have the floor, for one, two minutes, to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u222	First of all, Mrs Manolakou, when the route is not done, you must know that the subsidy is not given. So if they have excuses not to make the route, there's a justification for not getting the subsidy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u223	That's how they win more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u224	Second, in Antikythera, a ship has gone. There was a little problem, because we had two ships that had to get out. We found a way to get a ship. So there's no question of Antikythera. Let's not create impressions. Thirdly, financing is to cover the barren lines, namely to serve the islands. In the last three years it has really improved considerably, as the islanders say - let me know better - the islands' ferry connection. So, so that we can ensure that the land workers - and we are doing this for the first time - are not offset by the debts of these companies to the public or insurance funds of up to 70%, so that the land workers can be paid first. That's all. It doesn't change anything. As you know, this was voted on by Article 139 of Law 4504 and you know that in this law we had other regulations for workers, such as Article 78.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u225	Let's not go to the bill. You answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u226	So I'm closing, Mr. President. The only thing that changes in this arrangement is that the HR will be issued as of June 1st 2018 and nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u227	Mrs Manolakou was not satisfied. When he takes the floor as rapporteur, he will be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u228	Mr President, may I ask you something about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u229	Oh, no. We can't move like this. Twenty-eight speakers have signed. If we go this way, we'll be too late. We are going with my colleague from the Golden Dawn, Mrs. Helen Zarulia. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me before I refer to the bill, I would like to make some general remarks on current political developments. A few days ago a grand gathering was held in Thessaloniki for the name of our Macedonia. Likewise in Syntagma Square. But the will of the Greek people is not heard by this co-government. The message didn't come to the crocodiles of power. The reason for obvious. Our country is dominated by a zealous form of stateless, unrepentant Bolsheviks, which serves foreign interests and instead of the coup d'état of folding into this big national issue what they did, the ethnicists, as Mickey Theodorakis called them, have not been folded into this big issue. And here to make a parentheses: Mickeys Theodorakis as long as he served their Marxist ideas was good. Now suddenly it became "red cloth" and they all fell to eat it because it neglected the party interest and put it above all, as all Greeks must do, the homeland. But here we are talking about a regime of atheists, stateless men and a group of leftists. So what did the coup d'état do? He discovered the "NOVARTIS" scandal for a simple reason: For disorientation. It is a scandal known for some time, but now that the ethnicist agreements with Skopje have been made, they said "let's get it out of the drawer, so that we can have to deal with it instead of Macedonia". The question, however, is this: why have not all those accused of taking misery and breaking public money into a live broadcast, as was the case with the Golden Dawn, have not been arrested? The answer is one: They're not golden. It's a gang that breaks the place in the name of democracy. As far as this scandal is concerned, it will come to the committee of inquiry, as the previous ones have come. What's the result? One of the same: collapsing and rinsing. It is precisely the same result as the previous scandals. While truths will be told while the Golden Dawn will uncover them with documentary and evidence, as it did in previous exams, the whole case will be reinstated in the drawer, with the difference that everyone will be acquitted, “the oil will come out”, and offenses will be dropped, covered behind the alleged government responsibility law, and this will also be the conclusion of this committee of inquiry and this scandal, because “korac eye does not come out”. After all, we have said that the coup d'état has now brought it to the public for disorientation. The sad thing is, no one's gonna pay for these crimes. We hope that God will give those involved and guilty, they have stolen and outlawed in any way, at some point, to go to prison. I don't want to be a cannibal and say that all those accused are guilty like the very Pole, who also made a decision on the Golden Dawn trial that we will be condemned. Mr. Paulakis is a free man, since he speaks of himself safely, with the comfort and protection of his minister. Let's come to the bill now. This draft law consists of two chapters and a total of twenty-two articles. In the committees I have referred to all the articles in detail, so I will make some points here. Chapter I, Articles 1 to 12, is an attempt to strengthen the institutional framework of the management bodies of protected areas in order to preserve biodiversity and protect the country's national capital. Protected areas operators as an institution already exist since 2000, but some of them have never worked, while others have found themselves in many problems, they have been working and it has not been easy to find resources, etc. This proposal for the abolition, mergers and, in particular, the creation of over-administered management is doubtful whether it will work, how effective this model will be, and how it will help resolve existing issues. We are talking about over-responsibility, as there will be an extension of responsibility areas for twenty-eight existing bodies and eight new ones. The fact that this bill will cover almost all protected NATURA areas may be true, but we must not forget that much of these areas have been left unprotected, unprotected and unprotected. In fact, this fact has often emerged through the means of parliamentary control, which you often ask, very much, because we are indictable, and your own children who are indicted are appointed to the supreme office to manage the property of the Greek people. We are not appointed by anyone. The Greek people have put us here. In fact, it is a fact that we have pointed out the lack of regular staff and of funding, but also the fact that the abolition of mergers poses problems and poses risks. If, therefore, you want to create a new essentially new model for the management of protected areas, then redefinite the responsibilities, but with a realistic view to fully reflecting the role that they are required to perform and to meet the possibilities for their staffing. Otherwise it is an empty letter. So let us start by regulating paragraph 2 of Article 4, which stipulates that the management bodies of protected areas may cooperate with non-governmental organisations. This is clearly another case of legislating in which the Tsipras-Kamamenos coexistence brings up equal partners in all respects about the roles and pursuits of non-governmental organisations. In fact, the Golden Dawn asked the committee to be represented by the representative of environmental non-governmental organisations and policy maker in "WWF Greece" to submit to the committee the statutes of all these NGOs it represents. The representative of these NGOs to date has not informed us of who they are made up of. Although she had told the committee that the evidence is available to every democratic party, we do not understand this position, since the Golden Dawn with permission from the Arion Ice participated in the elections and has been elected democratically as a third political party with the vote of the Greek people. Does she not be subjected to a democratic attitude at the moment when she is hiding and not giving us the evidence we requested as a debtor? We are not forgetting the case of "ARCTOUROS", where a founding member is the well-known Greek Boutaris. He returned us a donation we had made in 2013. It is important to understand that it is a State's obligation - and indeed constitutionally guaranteed - to protect the natural environment in the context of the principle of sustainability and not a legal person governed by private law. It is certainly not the case of environmental protection professionals, namely NGOs. As far as the economic aspect of this institution is concerned, you initially argue that the action taken by the institutions is of a public and non-profit nature, but on the other hand, on the other hand, with Article 8, you attach particular importance to finding financial instruments. You refer to the annual budget grant from the Ministry of the Environment, to exceptional grants from the Public Investment Programme or from the budgets of other Ministries in ESDP programmes or other international organisations. Since it is a legal person of private law, which is supervised by the Ministry of the Environment, once a grant from the regular budget for the organisation and administration of bodies should be granted and then made financially self-evident. We do not understand why four million should be allocated for 2018, six million for 2019, six million for 2020 and ten million for 2021, even when there is no clear reference to the functioning of operators from 2020 onwards. We realise, of course, that there was economic difficulties in the past with management bodies, since their economic viability was based almost exclusively on financing through the NRP. In fact, there have been cases of mismanagement that have certainly led to a dead end. Let us note that we are not against state funding to meet the needs of the system of protected areas at national level, but against funding the model that the government proposes. Furthermore, there is neither a sufficient and stable staffing of the bodies, since this possibility is directly dependent on the resources available. In fact, since there is no stable financial source, there is no fixed staffing. Since 2021 it is planned to be fully financed by the State budget. Until then their grant will not be stable. Since, in fact, we are talking about economic issues, should there not be economic studies that fully document the economic viability of any management body in a protected area that is a prerequisite for its establishment for both existing and young people? As regards the second chapter and Articles 13 to 22, this is entitled ‘other provisions’. What we are observing is an attempt to change forestry legislation by legalising illegal facilities on protected forest land, etc., such as in existing ski resorts and their escorts, in existing organized tourist camps, camps, etc. I shall refer in particular to Article 15 and the construction of infrastructure within the NATURA network. We understand why this regulation is necessary in areas such as Thassos and Samothraki. However, this should not function as the legalisation of previous arbitrary infrastructures within protected areas. What do I mean by that? This arrangement should not function as abstractions for illegal road openings within protected areas, as has been known from time to time with many complaints. We should not allow such arbitrariness, on the other hand, to talk about restoring the landscape. Think that sometime restoration will no longer be possible. As we have said on many occasions, we are in favour of any action that concerns the protection of the environment, but which is coordinated, there will be a comprehensive planning and not a fragmented one in order to prevent the deadlines set by the European institutions. We must respect the environment and protect it. It's our obligation. We must have an integrated and joint management plan for all the protected regions and their bodies, which will be drawn up, specified and implemented by cooperation between the central government structures, decentralised centralised agencies and local government structures. Unfortunately, however, the way you legislate will have an impact on the environment, sacrificing the viability of an entire ecosystem on the altar of micro-political purposes for creating bodies that can at least be regarded as inefficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u231	Thank you. We proceed with Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u232	You are suggesting that today's bill is a bill that brings sectors into the predominant shape of the management bodies of protected areas that are legal entities, extending its action to the whole country. You also say that funds from the ordinary budget are being provided for the first time, or something crumbs. But, in fact, you do what the previous governments do and you continue with a great step further: you are complying and implementing the European Community directive which gives the environment the north of the whole society an alibi to protect it. Because there is a delay in the incorporation of legislative, regulatory and administrative provisions, there are also fines. Where is the delay detected mainly? Enlargement of the legal persons of private law who are management bodies, rather than strengthening the state services that are intended to preserve biodiversity and overall upgrade ecosystems. Moreover, the expressions that ‘the management bodies are public-private legal entities and are not of a non-profit character’ cover that they operate with market laws, subjugating the environment to the profitable objectives of capital. Basically, land is allocated for use by the public. At the same time, you'select' everything positive that had been left to forests, otherwise, a law on the protection of forests and forests in general - I am talking about Law 998/79 - so that there is no obstacle to further commercialisation of the environment. Why is there this orientation and the 'obligation' of the European Union? Because the natural environment and its protection, i.e. the European Union's environmental policy, faces the environment as a way out to the accumulated chapters of the monopolistic groups. They want to invest for new profits and such legislations are carpeting through the green economy. It is known that the green economy is a proposal for the management and use of environmental problems for the benefit of the strategic interests of capital. It forms incentives for investment, incentives for the introduction and exploitation of new technologies, innovations, to give new impetus to capitalist development, a way out for business profitability. That's the capitalists. They are constantly trying to widen their profits, to find new methods, new economic territories. Accordingly, state policy on capitalism serves the general interest of the ruling class at the level of the economy, serving its expanded reproduction. That's what you do. At the same time, satisfying the social needs of capitalism is being strayed. You are therefore using, as a tool, management bodies, instead of abolishing them and passing on full-time workers to forests, in particular, but also to other government agencies that are subordinated and need staff. But you have done exactly the opposite: you are broadening their number throughout the territory, you are grabbing objects of forest and other state services by turning management bodies into a multi-powered service and "Natural 2000" into a Ministry of the Environment of Private Law. So you broaden the interest of the groups by extending the areas of responsibility and responsibilities, ensuring greater study, construction work and more entrepreneurial interest in the name of their protection. You are therefore generalizing the delivery to private capital of the management and protection of NATURA regions through the bodies referred to in Article 4, making it the tool to secure financial instruments for groups. In addition, responsibility is provided for environmental licensing for projects and activities in their areas of responsibility, which have until now been the responsibility of the state services and, of course, continues on the basis of the Civil Constitution. To a large extent, their powers to judicial assistance, the granting of scientific research and patrol permits, together with the relevant government departments, are widened, thus revealing that, in addition to this, the government's intention is to recruit staff and create an administrative mechanism for the acquisition and integration of personnel. The question is as follows: did the management bodies have an efficient function? The results show that they have so far not been able to ensure that their areas of responsibility are protected. It's not the workers, it's the work relationships of eight months that were refreshed and abused. Today we are talking - to clarify things - they have been paid until last November, but in December they will be paid for at best in April. When they are regularly paid, they have a month of delay. They were never paid normally, but in the first half of each year. That's up to 6 months unpaid. That's the truth. Now, with regard to the direction and functioning of management bodies, it has been restricted to the preparation of some studies - by study companies - which have not been implemented, as well as in public relations and information programmes - education, that is to say, activities that are far from complete and effective protection of these areas and which, in principle, continue to have competences. What are you looking for under the name of'management bodies', which of course do not respond to their content? Development companies will be created to claim European mainly funding. It is very easy for institutions run by unpaid management boards to play this role, since there will be no central scientific design of actions. Ensuring profitability from natural ecosystems, without barriers and obstacles, is the real purpose. It is precisely this orientation that facilitates, is the vehicle to deliver the management of protected areas to monopolistic groups, of course, depending on their every time profitability priorities, in the name of the protection of biodiversity, sustainable development, sustainable management, etc. In no case is it prioritised by the preservation and protection of Greek biodiversity, but only by those contained in the Annexes to the Directives of the European Union. The rest you ignore. There are Greek species on the lip of extinction, but because they are not on the lists of instructions, you overlook them. At the same time, you are doing the following felony against today's three hundred and fifty employees in the management bodies: instead of using their experience and perpetuating them, throwing them on the path of unemployment and above you are mocking that you guarantee them. Why are you doing this? But you need it. With the lifting of a series of restrictions and prohibitions, which existed in the previous period, by further reactivating environmental legislation to reduce barriers to the action of groups, each new worker will better and easier for eight months to implement, implement the reactionary, anti-environmental legislative framework to win the capitalist. In the explanatory statement you write that workers for many years have been locked in a state of uncertainty. The managers of the management bodies are not locked up, but they are hostages of all the governments that have been through and of today, which have continued hostage for two years. Three hundred and fifty people of all specialties and branches over a decade have been working with continuous extensions of contracts as long as the various European Union programmes lasted until the end of 2015. By the end of 2017, new consecutive annual contracts were paid by the green fund. The contracts extended until the end of February are doubtful whether and when they will be paid after the new data obtained by a decision of the Court of Auditors, which makes it clear that any extension of fixed-term contracts beyond 24 months is prohibited. In addition, the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament raises questions both in Article 7 and in Article 11. That is why the truth and fairness of these workers are being put forward yesterday's communication and we call for the continuation of their work, taking advantage of their experience. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are voting against most of the articles in the first part, except for Articles 11 and 12, where we are expressing ourselves with 'white'. In the second part it is provocatively unacceptable that you legalise illegal private camping in forests and forests, even in areas that have been declared resurrectable. In other words, the protection measures for forest services are lost. Thus, legalisation of illegal interventions continues, cancelling all the administrative acts adopted by the forestry services. I'm talking about an expulsion protocol, demolition decisions, land declaration as resurrectors, etc. The road opens for new illegality. And the current government, like the previous ones, is sending out a message to all citizens that illegality and arbitraryness are rewarded. This message is also confirmed in Article 18, where you are maintaining violations and explorations of forests and forest land for farming in protected areas in the name of isology with the other forest maps. These issues are not solved. You could use only for the agricultural activity of self-employed farmers for free and not ownership. However, I must point out that the scientific report by the Committee of Parliament also refers to these two articles, both to 14 and 18, and puts a whole range of concerns to the fact that it is not compatible with Article 24 of the Constitution. As far as Article 19 is concerned, it is all we are voting on for five months on protective boats for the protection of mice baths. We therefore vote against, in principle, and most of the articles, since in the field of the environment and its protection, they show and confirm that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and its progress in these three years is serving the system of exploitation, the impeccable laws of the capitalist economy, the rotten urban state. You are the new pillar of the urban political system and anti-popular capitalist development. If you want, you can prove that there are no intermediate or medium-sized solutions. It's either the capital or the workers. Government philosopheric can only come in conflict with capitalists and their authority. The Communist Party of Greece considers the relationship between man and nature different. We believe that the earth is not a commodity and that the design of uses of land and ecosystems should satisfy the needs of the whole society, with a harmonious effect of man on nature and actions more compatible with the balances of ecosystems in the formation of the human environment. All of this, combined with the elimination of wars, cultural development, the cultivation of solidarity among peoples, proves also from the point of view of environmental protection, the historic necessity of overthrowing the rotten exploitation system, which its austerity daily, and now, with the news, brings scandals to the surface from the fierce business competitions that are inherent in the capitalist system. At the same time, they are being exploited by urban parties as an alibi to discover that the maliciousness of the working class and the folk layers is due to scandals and not to a swollen exploitation of the workers from their capital and their parties. And you do not hesitate to baptise capitalist development with a national and patriotic duty to hide the deep class content of your harsh anti-grass policy, because the interests of capitalists you serve.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. The special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr Lazarides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of managing a protected area is to protect effectively the important physical characteristics it hosts. The establishment of protected areas is a key component in the efforts to preserve biodiversity. It is a bill, ladies and gentlemen, to be added to a series of government decisions on the environment which create an environmental policy, which seeks to reverse the adverse effects of the policy of previous governments. With the draft legislation being submitted, it is perfectly clear that the protection of the natural environment in our country is being protected, since the institutional safeguarding of protected areas, which has been pending for years, is being completed and ratified at almost 100%. In order for these regions to be able to maintain and manage their natural wealth, we must ensure how they operate. The thirty-five management bodies provided for in the draft law will almost cover the whole network of NATURA 2000 regions, including its imminent extensions. This is an important step forward, since to date less than 1/3 of the NATURA 2000 regions were responsible for one of the twenty-eight existing management bodies. It is important and crucial to protect the nature and governance of the natural environment that management bodies are established as the dominant management and management structure of protected areas. Every spatial area, that is to say, will belong to a management body. During a period of budgetary narrowness, the Ministry of Environment and Energy prioritises the Greek nature, recognizes it as a real resource and as a comparative advantage of the country, while for the first time funds are provided from the regular budget to support the National System of Protected Areas. The management bodies of protected areas shall be the most appropriate administrative and management structures for the NATURA 2000 networks and shall be organised to participate and claim resources to meet their objectives. What do we observe? For the first time, it is clear that operators will now be of a development nature, that they will be linked to local products and work. They are given the opportunity to attract and create resources while we have to say that during the committees - and especially in the latter - we have seen many of the essential issues that have arisen from the debate, such as that operators undertake to organise consultation both for the preparation of specific environmental studies and management plans, but also in any other case. This is something that demonstrates the availability of an integrated policy-management plan from the Ministry of the Environment for the proper reinforcement of the provisions of our national legislation. The creation of a substantial environmental policy has been pending for a long time and has brought fines of tens of millions of euros for the country, by the European Union, affecting, of course, management bodies at organisational, executive and financial level, which has to be stopped. Strengthening the institutional framework for the management of protected areas, through the institution of the management bodies of protected areas, with a view to preserving biodiversity, protecting national natural capital, in terms of sustainable development and strengthening regional development and work, is imperative and the Independent Greeks support this draft law and effort. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I close, I would like to say two words on the amendment, number 1469 and a specialist number 176. With this amendment, with the proposed provision I propose to amend Article 52(7) of Law 4280/2014, which extends the operation of existing establishments, livestock, poultry, etc. - and rightly - but it was not foreseen that the same would apply to places of worship. We overlooked it, let's say, negligently, and I suggest that we complete it now. That is, to complete this provision with the cells, with the retreats, with the sacred monasteries and, in general, with the places of worship. Minister, I would ask you to accept the amendment. It adds to the existing amendment of the article that I mentioned earlier and the places of worship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u235	I would like to thank Mr Lazaridis for the time economy and get caught by it, to inform you that there have been twenty-seven speakers. This means that if we get away a little bit from each other's time, we won't be able to leave in 18.30' -19.00" that we appreciate and because of Chiknombet, I think you'd all want to be in your families and manage to do something, in the difficult days that we're spending, and you're in your turn. So I make a suggestion to you, to think about it, and to inform the Bureau, to continue accordingly: Or we will be going to the solution to be too strict with the seven-minute time for speakers, or we will all agree together that we will reduce this time to five minutes, with a slight tolerance, if and if that is the case. Otherwise, do not complain if the Bureau starts by saying 'complete, complete' and put us in a very difficult position, because many colleagues have been asked to conclude today's sitting soon. If you want to go by 12 o'clock at night. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u236	It's not official holiday, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u237	It's not a matter of official holiday, Mr. Vetta, to God! If we want to take it to 24:00. We don't have a problem. I am making a proposal because there have been several colleagues here and we have been asked to complete it in a reasonable time. Tomorrow is Friday, there is no parliamentary work, and the people in the province want to leave early, to go to their districts. I made a suggestion to think about her. I'll follow whatever you want. Mr Cavalellas has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u238	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll try to be brief. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that our country has been endowed with rare natural wealth and biodiversity. It is one of the richest in Europe. It is therefore expected that hundreds of high-protection areas placed under the umbrella of the European Eco-labelled Network ‘NATURA 2000’ have been demarcated. And while for the rest of Europe the benefits that this network can offer are estimated by experts in many dozens of billions of euros a year, in Greece for decades it has been ignored and the dynamics of the NATURA Network have been ignored. Unfortunately, for most governments post-culturally, the impression that citizens have formulated on this issue is that they are enough to allow non-governmental organisations to submit proposals or even to formulate policies, of course maintaining a secondary role. Thus, various proposals have been ignored at times, with the latest of this very serious "internationalism" that took place in November 2017, describing a new national management and administration model, with characteristics of sustainability and the development sign. The state taking serious account of past accumulated experience at European level could of course manage the protected areas in a more advantageous manner. The estimated possible benefits for our national economy, both in terms of gross national product and new jobs, under the realistic scenario of using 40% of Greece's NATURA 2000 areas, amount to approximately EUR 2 billion per year, while reducing unemployment by more than ten thousand new jobs. However, these belong to the category of lost opportunities, they are the favourite sport mainly of the SYRIZA - ANEL government officials and the previous ones - we cannot say that the previous ones have handled them better. We have to deal only with the draft law under discussion. The truth is that it contains some positive elements, such as the fact that Article 2 provides that almost all four hundred six regions of the NATURA 2000 network are now managed by a management body. Certain geographical areas of the country with protected areas are for the first time covered by either the extension of the geographical boundaries of existing management bodies of protected areas or by the establishment of new ones. We therefore see that a number of new bases are being set up to ensure that the country is more organised to preserve its natural wealth. The fact is that with the thirty-five management bodies, that is, the twenty-eight existing and seven young people planned, there is still a basic looseness of the Greek state, namely the coverage of the whole NATURA 2000 network, as mentioned by at least the Minister, or almost 28% of the land and 22% of the land of our country. However, I would like to point out that there are also some issues that concern us very much and spoil any initial impression. These are issues which we consider to be not sufficient responses to the committee responsible. I want to be more detailed. With regard to the identified three-year delay in the reaction of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to strengthen the institutional framework of the management bodies of protected areas, it is clear that what is provided for in the draft law could have been easily tabled for discussion in Parliament as early as 2015, so that our country could not be excluded from bureaucratic procedures from its involvement due to a breach of Union law in specific areas of conservation. We are at the level of a procedure for giving a reasoned opinion. As far as special protection zones are concerned, we are at E.U. level. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I understand that it was not an easy job to say that strains with a strong scientific background were required to record and evaluate protected species and habitats. But whoever was well - prepared to ask will appreciate that thirty - six months are too many to draw up these provisions. Secondly, we are not satisfied with the Minister's explanation of whether there is a legal provision for the Green Fund to be used for salaries, as provided for in Article 8, but also for other similar expenditure. The Minister in the committee referred to paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 6 without mentioning the law. He probably meant Law 3889/2010 to which, however, even using our rich imagination, no such authorisation arises from reading these articles. The fact that the previous governments would probably not have given the operators a single euro from the state budget, as the Minister argued, does not mean that the current government should get rid of the Green Fund. I insist on this, because beyond the formal place it is well known internationally that the resources of the Green Funds must be reserved for the recovery of environmental damage caused by human activity. I did some research from which, as much as I have tried, I did not identify a country in which the resources of the relevant Green Fund are used overtime for staff salaries, overtime, contributions to insurance funds or some other reasons, such as travel. Thirdly, the inclusion of various articles that obviously adversely affect the purpose of the draft law, such as Articles 13 and 14, with which the activities of ski resorts and campsites are legalised in protected areas, Article 15, which abolishes the ban on the construction of various infrastructures, and Article 18, which provides facilities for certain agricultural areas that have been evacuated and also located in protected areas. We sincerely cannot understand why it was decided to add such provisions that prove that your Government in many words forbids them, but in practice permits almost everything. In other words, it appears that the specific wording of the provisions can also be unlawfuld in the past and that all administrative acts adopted by the forestry services are annulled: elimination protocols, demolition decisions, land declared as reservoirs, etc. Fourthly, the dialogue on shaping the content of the draft law took place with zero participation of the forestry service, which was ignored in the hearing. We've noticed it before. What are you calling on the institutions at the time you have made your decisions and do you not intend to modify anything from what you have in mind? Throughout the draft law, reference to the forestry service is minimal. Perhaps only in the paragraph and Article 4. Specialised civil servants, officials who, on a daily basis, deal with the forestry object and the application of legislation, were neglected and their views were not even sought. These officials, however, are of the most competent, have scientific training, daily dealing with the forestry sector, have valuable knowledge and experience and will be called, by reason of their duties, to protect these areas and to implement the legal provisions to be adopted in the forestry sector. Fifthly, because there have been concrete complaints at the hearing by bodies, I would like to ask whether there are sufficient guarantees to ensure that the role of management bodies is not confused with the role of legal persons referred to in Article 4 with the role of public services exercising the relevant powers and, in particular, forestry services. This, perhaps, does not sound particularly serious. However, we have seen that in the last dramatic events, with the floods, for example, in Mandra, each involved was trying to renounce his or her responsibilities. In addition, although the explanatory statement shows that the specific potential of these regions has not yet been demonstrated and exploited as far as possible, paragraph 1(d) of that Article does not propose any specific measures to find additional resources. For example, the thoughts of organised economists referred to in paragraph (q) and the ecotouristic programmes referred to in paragraph (j) could be realised in respect of the introduction of a fee, a ticket. By remaining in the same article, I would like to know why the draft law has not been recognised, even as a minimum, for the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and has not been co-signed. Since we are talking about protection of flora and fauna, it makes sense to have some kind of cohesiveness. Of course, I mention this not because we are interested in the sympathies or disillusionments within the government, but because the ignorance of this ministry, for example, deprives management bodies of the possibility of certification of primary products produced within areas, namely the trademark - the so-called logo - linked to the product in a particular protected area. This remark is of greater importance since it has been a matter for many years of the greatest possible visibility of Greek countryside products both in Greece and abroad. Sixthly, malfunctions, even at the level of utilization of NSRF funds, may also be created by the fact that the territorial boundaries of many protected areas lie within the geographical boundaries of more than one region. I would agree here with the Minister that nature has administrative limits and it is not possible to limit or alter the extent of the protected areas. However, given that paragraphs 1e and 2 of Article 4 are unclear, as usual, a specific procedure should have been provided for to resolve the problems which will arise and which will be the responsibility and supervision of many other bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to what I have already developed, in the draft law, the Government has chosen to place the management bodies of protected areas as the main tool for shaping and implementing its policy on the protected environment, while at the same time allowing some obstacles to local and national development. Her model, however, seems to be not consensual or socially major. Nevertheless, despite not being acceptable to all, we recognize the good intention of the Minister of State to place order in the administration and operation of the National System of Protected Areas. In this context, we express our reservations at the outset and have doubts or objections to several articles, on which our final position will then be put forward in the debate. Mr Saridis will be referring to the articles and amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr. Cavadela. The special speaker from the river Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, nature protection requires some firmness. It takes first of all a project, a programme prepared by experts, to include the specificities of each micro-region. There is a need for regular staff, of course, for bodies. So one of my first questions is this: When do you think - from time to time - that the agencies will be staffed with men and women to perform their role? In addition, there is a need for stable funding, which for the first time is foreseen. I think that's a good thing. I've told you to the committees too. Nature protection needs systematic storage, not just improvement. And, as I have said, sustainable and integrated management, part of which should also be systematic monitoring of pollution prices in environmentally sensitive areas. I am very concerned about Article 18. Fortunately, you changed it, you changed it. For me, Article 18, as formulated, was a cause of war, but in the good sense of creative war. I am pleased that this has been done, because, as Article 18 was formulated, it was clearly against Article 117 of the Constitution that said, it says and must be for us the Bible on environmental issues, that "Public or private forests and forests are declared compulsory reservoirs and that they cannot be made available for another destination". Here, thank God, last minute, he was imploded, mostly...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u241	He said so before, but I agree. Goodwill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u242	He didn't say exactly the same thing. We have, however, agreed that we are shielding the areas as appropriate, NATURA, Ramsar, etc. There has been a lot of talk outside, I would say, on the Internet, about the eight hundred acres in the Samaritan position, where you went from what I learned and spoke to the inhabitants of the wetlands of the Codeios and Strofyria. I simply want to table - to anyone who is interested in - the decision of the First Chamber of State - the environmental Council of State - which has a number of 2474/2009 - on the basis of which an area of five hundred sixty thousand and twenty-eight acres is declared to be resurrected. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'll only stay in places where I have questions and a few objections. I shall start with Amendment No 1466 on mountain shelters. I think that the situation has been legitimised for a long time, until 2021, and we have exemptions from afforestation, afforestation and payment. I would also like clarification here. It seems to me that the time limit for them to comply with and change what the refugee administrations need to do to get legal permission. Should we shorten this time? I would like to tell you the same thing about Article 14 which amends Article 52 of Law 4280 on ski resorts and camping. I mean, my dear Minister, these three - four years in front of them show me that the state is not above them strictly in order to improve, heal, change all non-legal structures, functions, etc. Should we shorten that limit? Let's go down. First of all, Kalamas is the seventh largest river in Greece. It is a very 'working' river, which irrigates and waters thousands of land for crops and thousands of homes. Here the good colleagues from Epirus are aware of it and understand the importance of Kalamata. So I'm going to make you a very brief description of the Kalamata river protection status, so we can then come to the record. There is Law 4042/2012 on ‘criminal environmental protection’, which is harmonisation of European Directive 99/2008. We have the Joint Ministerial Decision 2013 on the impact of the Water Residential River Management Plan for Epirus Aquarium. Third protection point we have the FEK 2292/2013, River Aquarium Aquarium of Epirus. Fourthly, the FEK 3222-Other FEK! - setting the maximum acceptable values for the concentration of approved pollutants in the ground waters of Kalamata and the area. And we have a fifth protection, the 1909 FEK for surface water. What's the result? The result is that in the laws well there are protections, but in practice Kalamas suffers. So, listen: In the region - you are obviously aware - of the Lapsista burial, which feeds Kalamata with water, nitrite indicators were overrun by 1.030%, while in the summer the excess reaches 14.000%. This area, which is close, that is, and the estuary of the rivers of Ahron and Kalama, has, unfortunately, become a waste moat. In fact, there is also a finding of the environmental inspectors submitted to the House's Committee on Water Resources in February 2011, which, as I said, identifies the greatest pollution in the Lapsista moat. There they end up treated, but mainly unprocessed waste water from the Ioannina industrial area, but also pesticides. Here, therefore, fines of EUR 3.9 million have been charged by environmental inspectors from 2004 until today. Here, then, are some good questions: How many of these fines have been ratified? What amount has been paid by the illegal or collected by the State in these last 13 years? So Kalamas is a clear case where there is the legal grid, there are the decisions, there are the VETs, there are the joint ministerial decisions, but the river stinks, the river, unfortunately, degrades both the inhabitants and the growers and the tourists and those who have an elementary sensitivity with nature, asking for answers and immediate protection of the Lapsist's moat. So I want you to tell me practically how this draft law will extend a protection in this environmentally sensitive area. Now, not to say that I always disagree, I have to tell you some of the things I agree with and make a proposal to you. I am pleased that you have heard our proposal for Article 4 and paragraph 1, paragraph I, for the extension from twenty-five to thirty-five days for the provision of opinions by bodies. That's good. I am also pleased that you have taken into account our proposals on the possibility of actions to highlight the local products in the primary sector by region. In addition, joint patrols with forest and port authorities are very positive. We suggested it, too. Local society should be combined to develop all means of surveillance and intervention. It is also very positive, and what I told you about economic crime, that the president or member of the board of bodies should in any event not have been convicted of economic crime. You accepted it. I would say - may I be a bit of a pillowmaker - perhaps we should also put an offence against environmental legislation? Think about it. The person who will be called upon, in other words, to deal with the protection of a body, does not have an irrevocable judgment on environmental matters at its expense. The proposal I have to make to you is this: should you, as far as Amphintino is concerned, which has been a great deal of talk about the four lakes that Florinna has plus the two Prespecies six, plus three dams, be allowed to have an annex to Ammonium? Is there? There isn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u243	I made a statement to the committee. I'll call her later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u244	Good, say the statement, 'cause I didn't listen to it, I guess. Keep in mind that the Vegoritis Protection Association...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u245	I've made a statement that he'll be a member of the board. I told the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u246	Will he be a member of the board? Good. Before I even suggest it, you accepted it, which is why. That's all I had to add to you. We're positive. In some articles in the bill, we have a different view. We will call it during the vote. In principle, we are positive. As I told you, the main thing is to leave paper-protection areas only and go to real, in the field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u247	Thank you to Mr. Amyras and to the economy in time. The speeches of the rapporteurs and of the special speakers have been completed. We're entering the chatter list. Mr. Nikolaos Symblene has the floor for seven minutes. I have asked my fellow speakers not to escape from time to be able to conclude the sitting in a reasonable time. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am opposed to what the New Democracy rapporteur said about the general political landscape, throwing the ball on the platform and trying to escape from the main debate on the bill today. But the 'no' of the New Democracy vote today states that the New Democracy as a neoliberal party has been divorced not only by the workers, but also by the environment that is an integral part of the country's development process. Coming now to the bill, I would like to say that the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy is an important bill, which is to be added to the important bills of the prior period of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, such as the bill on waste management and the gradual abolition of plastic bags, the bill on energy communities that we recently voted on, the bill on the management of the structured environment. And it is certain that these bills are part of and serve a new developmental and productive model that we are working on the country's memorial course for a fair social and ecologically sustainable development. With today's bill, then, we are leaving a strong ecological footprint in the country, reorganising and expanding the map of protected areas not only in land areas but also in maritime areas. And I am talking about reorganisation because the European programme 'NATURA 2000', as it is known, has been completed in recent years by the governments of New Democracy and by PASOK. Workers were found in a bad position, and because of the well-known collar, they are kept with continuous prolongations. I really do wonder about the criticism made by all the parties, but above all by the Communist Party - with the intensity of the question of workers - and they know very well that the Court of Auditors does not accept the extension of contracts more than twenty-four months, because it considers that they are permanent and the well-known sticks are present. In previous years, several joint ministerial decisions on protected areas had expired, while many presiding decrees, which would define protected species of fauna and flora, have never been adopted, with the result that vagueness about land uses, from productive activities and from the authorised conditions of construction in each region, has caused serious problems within the NATURA areas to what is permitted and what is, in the end, forbidden and, in the same way, to the development of the regions concerned. I would also like to welcome the recommendation as a new body, the Management Agency of Protected Areas in Cyclades, which is managed by thirty-six regions and more specifically: in the wider area of Santorini, Anafis, Follandros, with six areas. In the wider area of Milos, Kimolos, Polyaigos, Sifnos and Serifos with ten areas. In the wider area of Andros, Tinos, Mykonos with five areas. In the wider area of Kythnos and Kes with three areas. And in Syros, Gyro, three other regions. And finally in the wider area of Paros, Naxos, Amorgos, Small Cyclades nine regions. This means, of course, that the institution starting in the Cyclades from scratch should immediately address the creation of three or four annexes. Because, if this cannot be done, it will in no way be possible to manage the range and diversity of thirty-six different regions. I accept the assumption of the Deputy Minister, Mr Famelou, at the closure of their speech at the fourth meeting of the committee, that the body should first be set up and then that the annexes should be drawn up. It is certain, however, that the creation of the footsteps in the case of the Cyclades is a one-way street. Consequently, the same is true of the provisional seat of Syros, since, as I have said before, the wider region of Milos and of the regional unity of the islands of Milos, with the ten protected areas, should have - even temporarily - the seat, because, in any case, the annexes will have to be created. And that's not what I'm saying to be a pleasure to some of my neighbors, but why the islands, the diffusion of island complexes, especially the Cyclades. In conclusion, I repeat that today's bill is taking place an important step towards promoting and protecting the biodiversity of the country, which - let us not forget - is one of the most important comparative advantages for development strategic planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr. Armalene. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, sixty students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st Kalambakas Trigalos High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Carras has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u250	I have said, Mr President, that when we have environmental protection issues, we must also pay attention and deal with them at every possible rate with a view to achieving protection, because this has an impact not only on the preservation of the natural, cultural or other environment, but also on the economy. Because the environment in this regard - I will not stick to the theories if it is anthropocentric or an end in itself - always has a development dimension if it is used in the right way. The protected areas of the NATURA network fall within the objectives of the European Union and each country was obliged to draw up the necessary list of habitats, protection zones and conservation zones. In Greece, therefore, the legislation, which provided for the regulation of the bodies of protected areas, was presented in 1999. Today we are in 2018 - at the start of course - and we say that we need to reform the status of protection bodies, management bodies, to achieve the aim of preserving biodiversity, sustainability and economic development in the areas that are protected. A number of issues are therefore raised. We have - and I told the committee - legal entities governed by private law. And the question arises: How far can their powers come, since in the constitutional context, the constitutional text, environmental protection has been reduced to a state purpose. However, we also distinguish from the characteristics of the environment, the forest environment, the terrestrial environment, the marine environment, the cultural environment and the housing environment. We have a number of elements and characteristics, which are often unconnected or even competitive with each other. So I must now go to the appreciation of the bill proposed by the government today. Allow me. I have no idea he's introducing something new. The protected areas may have been reformed, their number may have been increased, indeed the purpose of protecting workers, even temporarily, can be achieved, but that part which is necessary to be able to say that the regions which are worthy of speech are ultimately protected does not exist in this bill. And I'm talking about the trunk of the bill. I do not want to refer to the other provisions, because it is a different matter. I can't see it. I see a repetition of the past. I see an attempt to formally comply with the warning we received from the European Union and to be content with it. But I can't comment on it. And I want to say something. Attiki, Athens, the wider area of the metropolitan Athens has at least 4/10 of the Greek population. And it has around the mountainous tumors, which are a source of life for the inhabitants of the wider region. What are mountain tumors? We're starting from the beginning. Following the decision of the Council of State, we need strategic environmental studies. Have we returned to a 1978 regime, which he protected? It allowed the refreshments in the known history, refreshments made by villas and protection could never be observed. We're going to Parnitha, which has problems. But let's go to Penteli. Is Penteli not going to be protected environmentally? Are we going to stay in the old characterisation of the Special physics Landscape, which has been since 1978, if I'm not mistaken? At that time, the "Spain of Particular Natural Call" was the only protection tool. Penteli's been burnt many times. Penteli was invaded on the way. We are talking about dozens, if not hundreds of thousands of acres, where we have the settlements, where we have construction, where we have fires. And we leave it outside the protection framework of protected areas. Possibly - I do not want to be unfair - does not meet the criteria of the NATURA network. However, this does not mean that only the NATURA network should be given priority. We should also have the governments solved these problems. Not to talk about Aegeoo, which is a part of Attica, and that. We have a protection and use plan since 1999. Yesterday I was there by accident. I haven't seen anything improved since. So let's ask questions. I had expressed my doubts and my objections about how this bill can protect the regions. I said, therefore, that there is no coordination, that there are different categories of environmental characteristics, and that is why we are striving ourselves. I don't like being a veteran, I don't like the status of a prophet. But I read the report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament, which is identical to what I said in committee. ‘These are issues of operation and effectiveness of the management bodies of protected areas, which have previously been identified’. I'm keeping this note. I have a second note in my remark, which I have put to the committee on multi-currency and private law that is maintained. I suggested that it should be of a two-tier nature so that it can intervene, because the other services are remote. My observation remains. A reply was given by the Deputy Minister to joint patrols. What will joint patrols offer? Will they offer anything in addition to the already born? Oh, no. To sum up now, because I do not want to be tiring, I will say this: this bill, in my view, is a draft law on current management. I can't put it into a breathtaking environmental protection programme. I cannot include it in particular in the necessary protection of Attica and have brought the examples of mountain tumors. I expect to hear answers, not only from the government, but also from the many and diverse institutions that exist. And, if you would like my last question, that famous Green Fund, which seems healthy, will not be used for the fourteenths of Greece's inhabitants, or will remain for the occasional financing of data that may be useful locally, but do not create the economic prerequisite to incorporate the vastly protected areas of Attica and a development plan in the form of either ecotourism or utility - even livestock farming - you have not been able to maintain in Attica, we have driven it out. She's also an developer. Don't let it all go. I therefore believe that this bill will not be final. But it must be a basis for the old debate on the future, because otherwise in the next few years we will be saying 'we must protect the staff, it is specialized, we must maintain the institutions' and it will be some of the voices of my own who will again make the same protests. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr. Carras. I would like to ask the groups to inform the speakers, because this is where the Bureau is trying to communicate - you want everyone to speak - and nobody comes in their turn to talk. If it is not the time when his turn comes - without having informed for any important reason - the speaker who is absent will be deleted from the list, I repeat. Mr. Bukkoros has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you have not avoided the bad habit of all the SYRIZA ministers expressing opinions by tabling a bill that all the previous ones had negative results to give to this country and you are the ones putting things in order and offering good work. You did the same with this bill. I have heard you many times in the committees claim that "and this and the second and the third and we need to fix it." So I searched and found, Minister, all legislative initiatives and all the actions of previous governments from 1937 to 2011. I have found that at least five laws aimed at protecting the environment have been passed, that they are previous governments that incorporated all European directives and signed all international agreements, that are the governments that have taken all national initiatives for the protected areas, the national parks, etc. The history of the country, Minister, is very arrogant to think it starts with the 'first time left'. The country that you have received and environmental policies has a huge course to go. I am therefore tabling a list of all the legislative initiatives, all the international conventions signed by our country, all the national policies that have been drawn up. Believe me, there are too many of them in relation to the bill that you are presenting today. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Boukoros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, I think we're totally wrong. And at European level, the issue of protected areas has changed in terms of its treatment. It strengthens my view that on 21 April 2017 the European Commission announced an action plan on nature, man and economy for the period 2017-2019 with a tight margin of time. The action plan covers areas and priorities for specific actions and this is a rare European institution initiative, given that it sets a limited timeframe, as I said before. What do I want to say here? We are used in Greece to view conflicting concepts of environmental protection and human activity, entrepreneurship and even profit. That perception has changed. It has changed completely and has changed rapidly in the European Union. Greece is one of the most characteristic cases of long-term human coexistence with the natural environment, which has associated through activities such as agriculture, livestock, fisheries and even hunting, Minister. In the context of the dynamic relationship between human and natural environments, areas of particular natural beauty have been protected as sites of cultural, environmental and even religious value. And all this has been done with the legislation that I mentioned before, which is too much, Minister. However, the concepts of protecting the natural environment and development continue wrongly, in my view, to be seen as conflicting and competitive. Until recently if an entity had been organising a workshop on business activities in protected areas and the potential for development of these areas, it would at least be dealt with with with reservation. The protection of an area does not, therefore, imply the removal of humans and their activities by nature. Some characteristic examples, Mr Minister. The establishment of the National Park of White Mountains in 1962 has led to the gradual abandonment and evacuation of the village of Samaria in the canyon, in which human presence has been recorded since the prehistoric times. In other protected areas, such as Prespa, the burning of squid was prohibited. Another example I would say is that there are various national parks, such as the region of Dadia, where logging was essentially forbidden. What did experience show us, Minister? That two decades, three decades after these bans, these bans were abolished. For what? Because instead of protecting the natural environment, they created many problems. What do I mean by that, Minister? The protected areas, Minister, are not closed systems. These are not some oesses in which biodiversity can be preserved in a museum exhibit. At the same time, protected areas and their biodiversity are affected by the activities they are developing, even off-limits. So protection does not necessarily mean bans. And why am I saying this, Minister? because while Europe is protecting 25% of the total area, in Greece before your bill was protected about 35% and with new integrations in the protected areas we reach 65%. Management in the wrong direction can produce very negative financial results. It is necessary in the protected areas that human activity should be incorporated without a complication. They are, Minister, not the management bodies that manage and protect the environment in the protected areas, they are the farmers, they are the farmers, the fishermen are the hunters, as I said before. If you brought in the bill today that we will grant to a hunting federation, the management of a protected area... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, Mr. President, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u253	There's no two minutes, Mr. Buquoir, I've said that. Finish as soon as possible, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u254	You can imagine the reactions that would have been recorded within your party. In France and Austria, however, whole protected areas have been granted to hunting federations with wonderful environmental and economic results. As far as the workers are concerned, because this is a big matter, Minister, I would say that the bill for the workers provides for an unclear, undetermined and lame extension for 2018, until the procedures of other new, eight-monthly contracts are concluded. Of course, even if all existing workers are proposed for the eight-month contracts, which is very doubtful, the conclusion of such contracts will be a clear downgrading and adverse change in their work situation, as the existing contracts will be terminated after eleven years of continuous supply of workers to operators. Finally, Minister, I'd say something local. In Magnesia you carry with the new placement of Othry to Otto, which have no social, historical and economic connections. You are creating a huge body in Carla, in which, according to a unanimous decision of the City Council of Almyros, but also a reference made to you by the majority Members, they are asking to join the Carla agency, which is indeed huge. You're all right with Thessaic Cabo. Two protected areas of the Municipality of Almyros, the aesthetic forest of Kouri and Othrys, go to different institutions. They cannot be easily and without a great deal of expenditure in this way and, in this way, they can draw up management plans. If your excuse is that the Oite is small and Carla's big...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u255	Mr. Bukkaro, you're embarrassing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u256	...you could transfer to the Olympus agency the areas of Delta Penios, Elassona, Tyrnavos and Zarkos, who are adjacent to the Olympus management body and leave Oythry in Carla. This would be a more correct placement, which goes hand in hand with the needs that I have mentioned before to draw up sound management plans aimed at protecting the environment, but with a lead role in man.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Buquoir, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u258	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. Ladies and gentlemen, I would once again ask you to be as consistent as possible in your time as we will get away from programming. Mr. Emmanuel Synthrakis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. Let me turn to the amendment with a general number 1464 and a special number 171, which concerns the public limited company 'Organization for the Development of Crete'. Ladies and gentlemen, the previous government in 2013 had brought to the House an amendment to a bill concerning the merger in a single public limited company of the two former development agencies of western and eastern Crete, as well as two special public works services, the object of which was Crete the northern road axis and the Apostelemi dam, which they wanted to take from the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works. The current government in October, in other words four months ago, with a presidential decree, established a new organization by the relevant Ministry, the Special Public Works Agency of Crete and the Dodecanese, in effect taking responsibility for the Development Company, such as the BOAK, which had caused confusion in terms of the future, the responsibilities of the Development Agency of Crete, even from the Members of SYRIZA, who had tabled relevant questions in parliamentary control, but also from their own members at the Development Agency of Crete. With today's amendment, which amends Article 3 of Law 4138/2013, it restores these responsibilities to the Development Agency Anonymous Company for the design, design, construction, operation, administration, supervision and maintenance of new infrastructure or parts of road infrastructure, awarded to it by Minister's decision. The whole procedure for awarding works is also carried out under project concessions - concession contracts to business groups, of course - thus strengthening the appetites of large capital, the competitiveness of business groups. What happened? Why this conversion within four months? SYRIZA, the agony of MPs, even mayors, the district manager, district advisers, municipalities, other than the Communist Party of Greece, fly arrows toward them: the New Democracy to SYRIZA and SYRIZA to New Democracy and PASOK. But it's not like that. In fact, everyone agrees with the establishment and purposes of the proposed public limited liability company. They do not disagree either in their role or in their policy. Their differences, which propaganda magnify, are limited to who will have the majority in shares and in the council. The government, the local government? What policy will control the development agency? The officials of today's government or the officials of the previous government? It is something, of course, that we all know that it is very easy to change, depending on who is in the government court. Both the previous governments of the New Democracy - PASOK and the current SYRIZA - ANEL, on the pretext of the sustainability of the organisation, the assessment and continuation of the work of the OANAK and HADYK organisations and the safeguarding of the rights of their staff, seek to transfer to a private body all the responsibilities of the State - a region, municipalities - to the planning, financing and management of the major projects of the region, in order to serve more flexiblely the capital, in a company in the form of, I repeat, the public limited company, i.e. a company with private financial criteria. Thus any share-holding of the connection can change very easily if it is later decided that large private investors will enter directly. The aim, therefore, of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, like the previous ones, is to bring the development tools of the state closer to direct control of capital. The new northern ‘axle’ road is not the road of the village. The Egnatia-type road will be built, with a very high capital burden and the business groups are slaughtered who will take over it. Is BOAK supposed to be fixed? Of course it has to be made. The responsibilities of all governments over time. What happens on the north road is an absolute disgrace. That's where dozens of people have died. However, 400 billion euros have been lost, probably since the Mediterranean Integrated Programmes to date, where a large part is supposed to have been directed towards development needs, as previous governments and today, Crete. Tell me, couldn't anyone plan, build this north road? They obviously headed for the needs of business groups, for the needs of business groups. The government therefore plays with these contradictions, with the funding it allegedly undertakes by the State, by co-financing from European funds or borrowing. The cost, however, is certain to be passed on to the Cretans through wonderful rags, tolls of various forms and ingeniousness. We all agree on that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The JRC is opposed to these methods, with the content, form, function, responsibilities of the Development Agency of Crete as a public limited company. The JRC's position focuses, firstly, on the creation and strengthening of public services which exercise exclusively their powers to give public limited companies. Secondly, the protection of workers, who are very concerned, is not guaranteed by the development agency privatised, but by a public development agency in the context of its state-run operation, with permanent, stable and with full economic, insurance rights. This is what the JRC is looking for. I shall conclude, Mr President. Thirdly, the radical change in the policy of both the government and the local, regional administration to meet the people's needs of change in power, socialisation of capital and a radical change in the structures of the state. The North Road Axis of Crete must be the sole responsibility of the state, without toll, for a modern and secure road network that serves the needs of the inhabitants of Crete, along with tourism and all those of the social groups that need such a road network. Therefore, with this reason, the Communist Party of Greece is voting against this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr. Synthraki. The floor has been raised by the Independent Member, Mr Catherine Marcos, for seven minutes. Here comes Mr. Michelovanakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u262	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the new law on management bodies for protected areas comes under pressure from imposing heavy fines for the country by the European Union for the incorrect application of European environmental law. It does not, therefore, introduce any major reform. It simply extends to a large extent the relevant framework and coverage in particular of the NATURA regions. Despite the positive elements of the bill, I would like to refer to a number of issues, which are unfortunately not adequately addressed. The first concerns the institutional and legal shielding of protected areas. Legislation speaks clearly of the compulsory extradition of presidential decrees regulating the protection status of regions and the permitted human activities. To date, only four or five have been issued, if I am not mistaken, and for all the other regions there are CSRs, but they have been oppressed several times in the administrative courts. The regions, in other words, remain unprotected. Two years ago, I had tabled a question about the LOGISTICS warehouse that suddenly escaped into the National Park of Delta Aesos. The Minister spoke of environmental studies and plans. On the agency, how many presidential decrees on the legal immunity of the regions have been issued by the Ministry over the last three years of governance? We're still waiting. The presidential decree on the National Park of Axis, at least, is supposed to be ready. Why doesn't it enter into force? Until the procedures for the new Gulf Thematic Body are completed, how will you ensure that no new feats are created? I believe that you have read the letter sent by the President of the Delta Axis management body, which refers to this very subject. This also raises the question of the powers of the bodies. What should an official who finds such an illegality do? Who needs to notify and how soon do the competent authorities finally have to impose? You realize that a warehouse, for example, is not built overnight. So there is an important gap here, which remains uncovered with the new law. I cannot comment on the question of operators' officials, who - not least - have been unpaid since December and, as has been said in committee, they are not expected to be paid before April. Because something was heard about privileges, I never expected to hear from colleagues on the left, to blame workers on the same body for ten and eleven years that they are allegedly chasing the privileges, when they are simply trying to safeguard employment rights and the gains of so many years. You claim that the eight-month solution is the only one. Possibly, but I don't think you'd expect them to thank you for coming back to zero after so many years of work. These are people who have linked their lives to management bodies, who have acquired not only valuable experience, but who, in adverse conditions, have contributed to their work and love for the object in raising these areas. You want to say that within three years, there was no possibility of these positions being covered even partially? In any case, you must ensure that, even until the new regime is in operation, these people are not left behind. I would therefore ask you to see the matter of the extension which they are asking for and the related amendment that has been sent back. Ladies and gentlemen, the protected areas have untapped potential for development. We are not, of course, talking about a disastrous exploitation, but about a mild growth, following the successful practices of other European countries, such as Denmark or Germany, which can give them more economic autonomy, but also create new jobs in local communities. Especially the latter is very important, that is to say, to cultivate a conscience at local level that the existence of a protected area does not only mean restrictions on activities, but also offers benefits. From the same area, we are, Minister. You also know the problems with wild boars and agricultural crops. In practice, therefore, it will be apparent whether the new framework that you enter today will be able to overcome the weaknesses of the past. In conclusion, I would also like to refer to the ministerial amendment that you have withdrawn, of course, concerning the operation of treatment and residence centres for stray animals on forest and grassland, with the aim - you say - of limiting the illegal treatment of stray animals by individuals and associations and the protection of public health. I honestly wonder, firstly, whether this amendment is appropriate at the last moment, when the next legislation on animal welfare is supposed to come. Secondly, what illegal treatment of stray animals by individuals and associations are you referring to in the explanatory statement? Do you mean that philosophical organisations and volunteers who at their own expense and effort care, care and feed the stray animals, for which the competent state does nothing, are illegal? So is it a better solution that you're suggesting? If I understood correctly, can you guard fields in the countryside and fly the strays of the city in order not to stray the streets, or would you like to tell me that you will be setting up direct care and accommodation centres in the forests and in the meadows, when even the few runs show basic shortcomings and underfunding? We are pleased to hear that you have withdrawn this amendment. However, since you said that it would be included in the forthcoming animal bill, we will expect to see what changes have been made and of course we expect this insulting report to be removed for every philosophical report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u263	Thank you to Mrs Marcus and to the economy in time. On behalf of SYRIZA, Mr. Mikeloganakis has been speaking for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. As regards the bill, the management bodies of the protected areas are legal entities governed by private law by the Minister for the Environment and Energy. It's a good energy. Indicate the liability limits of the twenty-eight existing bodies and the eight young people established. Extended territorial competence changes the names of operators. The limits of the territorial competence of the bodies may be amended by a Presidential Decree. That's important. The possibility of transferring the seat and the establishment of the annexes is allowed. Remuneration of unpaid consultancy committees can be made to all operators. The bodies will implement, evaluate, update the management plans. In the twenty-fifth days for giving their opinion, we make them thirty-fifths so that there is sufficient time. There is cooperation between bodies with forest, port and police authorities and the Fire Corps. There is the possibility of local workshops to protect and manage the environment. First of all, we are establishing seven-member councils with the possibility of representing the first and second degree local government, civil society, the scientific community and the NGOs. For 2018, the grant from the regular budget will be EUR 4 million and the payroll from the Green Fund will be covered. For 2019 and 2020, the main part will be covered by the budget and after 2021 there will be a grant fully from the budget. Resources will also come from the use of beach hay, hydroelectric works, ski resorts and healing sources. There will be administrative and technical support from the Commission 'Nature 2000'. We're putting class in the ski resorts. We give the opportunity to legalise existing camps, forest areas and NATURA areas. The possibility of authorising intervention for water supply projects in NATURA areas is given. They are allowed to drive to forest services in night patrols and non-territorial workers authorized to drive a service vehicle. That's very important. We're intervening in the mountain shelters. Interventions are also carried out on farms in NATURA areas. We are creating protective networks to deal with the overcrowding of lions. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how we maintain biodiversity, protect natural national capital and strengthen local product, regional development and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr. Michelonnakis. Mr. Kasapidis has the floor now. Immediately after that, Mrs. Scouffa, which I do not see in the Chamber. I would ask you very much to inform her, because if she is not here at the time when she is going to speak, we are unfortunately going to have to delete her. Here, Mr. Kasapidis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the particular bill we are debating today in plenary may be one of the most important that our country, our country, could make use of, because we are essentially negotiating, Mr Minister, our country's 'treasury' in terms of genetic material, natural resources, flora and fauna in particular. Our home country has the only privilege in the whole world to have about 6,500 thousand plants that nurture themselves at 132,000 square kilometres and the entire number of plants that live in the marine environment is almost unknown where the exact surface of our country's sea area varies depending on how we calculate it. It is therefore a huge'storeyhouse' that, to date, Minister, we have not exploited it to the extent that we could. Of these 6,500 plants, 1,463, according to study by German scientists in collaboration with Greek botanists, are endemic, that is, there is nowhere else else in the world. What does that mean? It means these 1,463 plants are naturally monopolies. If these natural monopolies manage agriculturally correctly - we cultivate them, i.e. - then we have unique agricultural products and with sound financial management, we will have unique economic products all over the world. I will give you an example, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to understand how important and how important this chapter is: A native plant of our country that is nowhere else in the world is, is the mast of Chios. Minister, twenty-three villages live exclusively or complementaryly from this plant. You can understand that from 1,463 if we used 10%, i.e. 140, and we chose what is scattered in our country, ten in each region, we would have thirteen chambers of agricultural development, such as that in Chios, as is otherwise Kosanis. This plant may not be endemic, but it is selfish with unique quality. It is superior in terms of world quality. Here, then, is a plan for productive reconstruction with respect for the environment, in terms of scientific management, and clearly with an institutional framework that you are not currently describing, and which is why I have gone to Stepma. I would like to table a proposal, Minister. We expressed our dissatisfaction with the number of management bodies. I also support the fact that the thirteen management bodies that would have had a better centralised design would have a more effective management of these unique natural resources, which would be managed at the boundaries of the regions with the individual annexes - if you like - of the ecologically sensitive areas, as today reflected either in the bill yours - the 28 plus 8 management bodies - or even in all the NATURA areas, 445, which are essentially integrated into the 28 plus 8 management bodies. So these unique plants, the unique ecosystems of the Germans with the Greek scientists categorised them, Mr Minister, in 13 botanical apartments. The science of ecology divides and categorizes our country in terms of these uniqueities in 13 different apartments, which coincide with the administrative boundaries of the regions, not entirely, but approximately. If you take into account the fact that the studies of the river basins are now being completed on the 14 river basins, you can understand that there is a background that can be the map on which we will design the development, the productive activity of the country in particular in agriculture and livestock, with the productive activities of vertically integrated forms, in accordance with the integrated design you say - and I am glad to say that - in the bill incorporating other values, culture, tourism and local societies in general, in order to emerge in a non-viable, spontaneous and perfectly natural way that fits our country's identity, the production reconstruction plan, for which unfortunately a great deal of reason is being said, but in fact we have not come to a firm conclusion. So what I am suggesting is that you introduce in ecologically sensitive areas - if you would like to say 36, we are telling you 13 - with the individual ecologically sensitive areas, as defined by the 2000 NATURA network, that a quality label for agricultural products should be introduced in each management body at the level of these regions, to certify that these products come from protected ecologically sensitive areas. I also say to you the acronyms: WTO, as we say PDO, protected designations of origin or PGI, Protected Geographic Indication or Special Traditional Products. Here we have another category of agricultural products, which, Minister, will be produced in environmentally friendly terms. Clearly the codes of good agricultural practice or integrated management, but also organic farming, will be respected so that only under such conditions can the farmer or collective scheme take this quality mark. Let me give you an example of what is already happening in our country. Prespes beans, which are at the management board of Prespas, do not have that sign, but they have the report that they are from the ecosystem of Prespas. You understand that if the management body together with the Ministry of Agriculture had a local plan to certify this production, we would economically upgrade this product and have other recognised products in our country at a higher level. Another example of your region - and I am ending with it, Mr President - is Chalastra rice, which you know is in the delta of the three rivers. Imagine how much better the area would be to protect if farmers - under the above directives and it is easy to do this today with the scientific knowledge we have and to develop agricultural research on methods of protecting the environment and producing high-value products - had a mark of the rice operator which I know by a moment ago was unscathed with large quantities. Thus, we would have another passport on the markets that like to buy products that have such a print. To conclude with this proposal, Mr President, I would like to refer to what political forces are able to join in this House and in the composition of such proposals relating to development, which we will all agree and which we shall all serve if this is decided and approved by this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr. Kasapidis. Ladies and gentlemen, some parliamentary representatives have already asked to intervene. It is estimated that the Minister asked to speak after about four speakers. Mrs. Scouffa has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u268	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill for the management bodies of protected areas is coming to substantially upgrade the country's policy and action to protect our natural environment. We should not forget that the natural environment in our country is a key element in its identity and development. The whole world knows about the sea, about the air, about our mountains, about our herbs, about our food, about our protected species. Therefore, particular attention should be paid to the protection of species, particularly those threatened by the introduction of protected areas and the strengthening of management bodies, so that these areas can maintain and manage biodiversity and hence their natural wealth. In spite of this, in previous years, however, the functioning of management bodies has been in a constant state of start-up and re-startment. It is not only that the funding of the agencies had been completely integrated into the European Programmes, in the NSRF, but at the same time that the Samara - Venizelos government with v.4109/2013 had chosen to shrink and effectively abolish the agencies, their action, but also the workers in these bodies. As the representatives of environmental organizations referred to in the committees, those provisions were not acceptable according to common confession. The present Government, recognizing the Greek nature as a real resource and as a comparative advantage of the country, considers it a duty to strengthen and protect it. In December last year the Joint Ministerial Decision 5743 was adopted on the revision of the national list of NATURA 2000 sites, according to which the NATURA areas now amount to 446 out of 419 previously, while the limits of existing areas are extended at the same time. A month and a half after this ministerial decision, we come with this bill to cover all the areas, land and sea, the NATURA 2000 network of the country in a uniform way, with their integration into the territorial competence of the management bodies of protected areas through, firstly, the extension of the territorial competence of the 25 existing operators by the total of 28 and the establishment of 8 new bodies, covering a total of 153 areas, i.e. the remaining 34.2% of the NATURA 2000 network. Especially for the Pieria Prefecture, in which I am elected, the Olympus National Park Management Agency takes over five areas of the network, Olympus, Pieria Mountains, Mount Titaros, Lower Olympus and Kallippiki, Mount Godamani and the Rhodia Valley. I would like here, by expressing environmental rural associations of the Pierre Prefecture, to sincerely congratulate the Minister, Mr Famelos, on the initiative and the announcement and the establishment of the Thermaikos Gulf Management Agency. For those who do not know him, the Thermaikos Gulf has been presenting most of the problems for decades. No one was sure what the rivers brought to their estuarys. Just next to a protected area of Citrus's chains, in the very mydocal crops of northern Pierre there was a mess, you will allow me the expression, a completely uncontrolled situation that no one knew where the musculoskeletal crops were being set up, with which producers, muscular farmers, etc. We hope, Minister, that the Thermal Gulf Management Agency, along with the establishment - finally - of PDO, will put a order on the sea of northern Pierre. Let me mention that the management bodies on the basis of the draft law are established as the dominant administrative and management structure of the protected areas. That was the demand of the environmental movement, that was the request of environmental organisations, and that is what we are establishing. Thus, for the first time, funds are guaranteed from the regular government budget of 4 million in support of operators, and for twenty years there has been no single euro from the state budget. Procedures for assessing the staff and the work of management bodies as a whole shall also be set out on an annual basis. Smaller and more efficient administrative schemes are set up, which are now seven members, involving four representatives of local communities, one of primary self-government, one of the secondary, one of the economic operators or producers of protected areas and one of the environmental organisations. The meetings of the administrative boards are open and their agendas, precisely to serve in the interests of transparency, pluralism and genuine consultation with local communities, will be sent to all municipalities in the area of operators to be informed. I would also like to stress another aspect raised by the previous speaker, in my opinion, but not on the right basis. Because with the bill alongside environmental protection and management, for the first time it is clear that operators will also have a developmental character, will also be linked to local products, local work and will be able to attract and create resources so that the environment does not operate as a brake but create jobs and added value. This may include from a quality label to local products up to the mountainous paths that concern Pieria, Olympus and most other mountains of our country and the connection of these mountainous routes to local biodiversity. The certification of local products will also be given by the operators concerned. I should also like to stress that the biodiversity and added value which can be produced for the country, because of this very biodiversity, for the first time this government has managed to integrate it into a programme of European resources by drawing up an integrated programme in the field of nature and biodiversity for the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u269	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u270	I will conclude by saying this: if the process of evaluating the contractors is completed for the preparation of the specific environmental studies and management plans of all NATURA 2000 regions, these will support the draft Presidential Decrees. And finally, in your honor, Minister, we are finally waiting in Pieria for the presidential decree and for Olympus, so that unreserved designs of construction or unregulated exploitation are not carried out at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mrs. Scouffa. The Parliamentary Representative of the River Mr Mavrotas has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr President. The establishment and, of course, the effective management of protected areas at both land and sea level are the main instrument worldwide in the field of biodiversity conservation, as is apparent from the gravity attributed to them through the UN Convention on Biodiversity. So the draft law is in the right direction. We cannot, however, comment on the fact that, according to the explanatory statement, once again, the government is going to legislate to avoid consequences. As indicated in the explanatory statement, this Law constitutes, inter alia, part of the actions of the Ministry of Environment and Energy in order to avoid imposing fines. And I wonder: can we plan, organize, legislate, implement in this country without the dampering crack of sanctions, or, anyway, in time? It would be a pleasant surprise to describe the smaller forms of administration, the seven-member boards of administration. Restriction of members of the boards of directors, committees, etc. It's something you're not accustomed to. I'd say the opposite. There are, of course, points that give rise to questions and concerns. For example, paragraph 4 of Article 3 refers to the possibility of setting up, by means of a joint ministerial decision of the Ministers for the Interior, Energy and the Environment and Maritime Policy, an additional committee to support the work of the Thematic Gulf Management Body. Referring to the explanatory statement, I found that some peculiarities were attributed to the area, due to the port, the industrial zone and the city of Thessaloniki. However, returning to the text of the Act, I note that in the end similar support committees can be set up to the other management bodies, for which, rather, the specificities of the Thermaikos do not exist. And I wonder why the specialist precedes the general. Is the general wording not sufficient, which obviously also covers the Management Body of Protected Thematic Areas? What is the feasibility of this particular reference? At the Thermaikos and Axis and the wider region, however, I will return to a next point in the speech, as they have recently been working on political activity and not just on its environmental dimension. What I would like to say is whether we can organise management bodies in such a way that they can do their job without necessarily being supported by additional special committees. In addition, paragraph 2 of Article 4, which describes the responsibilities of management bodies, shall record their ability to cooperate with competent EU authorities, services of other international organisations, local authorities, public-law legal persons and foreign and foreign institutions, educational and research institutions and natural and legal persons in the private sector. And saying 'to organise them', we mean to acquire organisational and efficient structure, stable funding and regular staff, as the country's environmental organisations prefer in their joint comments, during the public consultation prior to it. These first three minutes had to do with the bill. I'm going to go on with some topical issues. And if we had to choose a book that would have characterized political life in Greece over the last few days, that can't be "Valto's Secrets". The book of Penelope Delta also has Macedonian, it has secrets, it also has swamps, such as secrets and swamps, it also has the résumé of "NOVARTIS" that came to the House yesterday. He's got secrets because we have the secret witnesses, and he puts it, because it leads to the country's political life being swept away. The issue of drug spending is very serious. He can't stand any hoods or hoods. It is important, therefore, for the substance, but also for the procedure. The whole management, however, shows a sort of governmental manoeuvre. First, a Prime Minister's mandate came to the House, although he should not. “Greater than the SIEMENS scandal” says Justice Ministers. Peripheral by Marios Igos, the Government Representative, Mr. Janakopoulos, saw light and entered. He knows the protected witnesses, Mr. Paulakis. Yes, well, in the debate, but not in the tooling of the NOVARTIS scandal. No mud in the fan. He said he said to me that he said, "he took it from the "A" who knew "B", which means that "B" must have taken it. It seems that the presumption of innocence of the defendants is confused with the alleged presumption of misconduct and all of them become a moth to feed the ignorant monster of populism and the defiance of the political system. We must shed plenty of light on both political persons and others. The system holes must be shut down. And we need to change this law at some point, which puts the political system at the forefront of special treatment against justice. With the question he has opened, our political system gives institutional exams. So the matter has come to the House. We want the House as a field of arguments and justice and not as a Roman arena to break political opponents. Do not end up with bread and show or rather not end up in "NOVARTIS" and show. And we expect to see how you deal with the case-file involving Mr. Kammenos and he comes or is on his way to Parliament. The question, therefore, of the pharmaceutical costs and the practices followed by the company ‘NOVARTIS’ to gain a benefit, distort competition, corrupting and financing natural persons and state workers is very serious. We will, however, come up with political manipulation to undermine the research. So it cannot work to change the government's agenda, to try to find the medicine there, in NOVARTIS, to leave Macedonian after a big rally, like last Sunday. The government must look at the world - the world that came into the rally - in its eyes and explain to him that it is wrong that it does not want to solve the issue. To explain to him what the national interest is and not to be led by the national passion. The truth is that there is the juncture, the opportunity to overthrow a feat, an international de facto feta on the basis of which the neighbouring country is called almost all of them 'Macedonia'. The complex name erga omnes for all uses can restore this balance. The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has the geographical designation it characterises, but abandoning the funny historical claims and wrestling, which are self-proof. It is also known that the Slavs came to the area a thousand years after Alexander the Great. But we too must admit that the region of Macedonia extends beyond the Greek borders, otherwise we lose our right, we lose our credibility. That is why we must seek to resolve these issues now that the juncture exists before life and international reality are solved at our expense, but also at the expense of the next generations. We've got to get a thorn that's going to be mistreated in a difficult area. That is why both Fofi Gennimata and Stavros Theodorakis proposed the convening of the Council of Political Heads, even better enlarged with the Prime Ministers who handled the issue, so that everyone can say clearly about the future and not just the next elections. National issues are not solved by party calculations. On the contrary, they need the knowledge and opinion of experts, world information and national consensus. Without patriots, without traitors, because the national interest does not match the national impulse. That is why tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of Put before the patriotism of design and extroverty rather than passion and introvert. National passions have often led us to national mistakes and, worst of all, have led us to divisions. And in Greece the division is always the foreword of a tragedy. Unity and self-consciousness on critical issues are, however, a work of the political system. Unity, however, presupposes confidence. How can citizens not lose their trust in the political system when politicians themselves do not trust each other at all anymore? Other measures are being taken to build confidence. Here we take steps to demolition confidence. And we see that every day. We see it in acts and practices, in the version of the public speech. The controversy is projected, the composer is buried, the consensual. And if we finally consider that trust between us has been lost, that their "or ending or ending" is still in force, then the game is lost. The extremists will rub their hands and the anti-parliamentary speech will strengthen. The monster of populism will eventually eat the hand that fed it. And in all of this, the country must be financially and socially balanced, with an inexorable exit from the crisis in front of it. So let's not make him that he's more and more slick. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. Mr Seltsas has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA. Mrs Vayonakis and Mr Psychogios will be speaking. And then the Minister will be placed. Here, Mr. Selcha, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. In addition, I have been detailed in committee and have tried to convince you of the fair request that the headquarters of the Western Macedonian Management Agency be held in Amytino, where we have four successive lakes of communication between them and we have three dams, not Kastoria. This decision, Minister, to explain it to the people of Florina, when you come to me about how, in fact, I am telling you, you have given the head office of a management body in Kastoria. After all this, and in order to ease the climate in Florina, which is not really good - I sincerely say to you - for your ministry, I would like you to commit at least, for example, to the establishment of an organisation in Amphintino, but also to the participation of the Vegoritis Protection Association in the board of directors. It is the least we will be able to reward this club for the twenty-five years struggle that gives rise to politicians and politicians who have been applied to the watershed of the lakes of the municipality of Amyntaios and Begoria. I believe that by the end of the process you will review my request, the request by local authorities for the seat of the management body, to be made in Amphintino rather than in Kastoria. With these few things I sincerely want to defend my request, which I also defended in committee, in that direction. I just wanted to say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr. Selcha, and for the economy in time. Mrs Vagonakis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u276	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I think today's bill is undemocratic for citizens, organisations and executives who have been working and concerned about the environment for many years. This bill covers management bodies 100% of the NATURA, land and sea areas. Let us remember that, just last December, the joint ministerial decision was adopted to revise the national list of NATURA 2000 regions, which now amount to four hundred forty-six. Let us remember that with the former regime only eighty-nine regions, that is 27%, were covered by management bodies. I come from Chania, an area 45% is 'NATURA'. We are lucky to have an extremely active management hand in this area of the Samaria National Park, which covers all of the White Mountains and which has a prestige, influence on the prefecture and dare to say that it has contributed decisively so that people's perceptions can be changed that, allegedly, the protection of the environment is contrary to the development of a place. And I think this is important when we talk about sustainable development. Crete is an island based on tourism and the primary sector. However, if you study every year the answers that tourists give to the timeless research conducted by the MOH, the Mediterranean Agricultural Institute of Chania, you will see that there are many who come and return to the island because they consider the environment and nature to be very positive, the diet and the behavior of people. So its environment and its protection is a prerequisite for development together with the agri-foodstuffs sector, which is closely linked to it. I want to talk a little bit about the experience that has been gained in recent years by the management body in Chania. Today, the body has a management plan which embraces the whole of the White Mountains, which is of course divided into management areas with a different degree of protection, which has arisen after consultation with the operators and, above all, with local authorities, businessmen, farmers, beekeepers, farmers and ordinary citizens. Many, ecotouristics, operational programmes, exploited European projects, engraved routes, etc. Now it is trying and moving forward - successfully, I would say - the quality mark for those businesses and products that meet specific quality criteria, the characteristic name'mia'. I don't have time to explain to you what this is, but it's ancient Greek. Nothing happened to him alone. Behind all this, there's people, there's a little bit of it, there's inspiration. That is why I am optimistic that the expansion of the institution will progress successfully in the other thirteen regions of the prefecture, which will be called the National Park Management Agency of Samaria - Western Crete. I'd like to come back to the bill. I find it very positive that the administrative board of bodies attaches great importance to locality. Self-government (a) and (b) degrees are represented, and there is also a representative of producers operating in the region concerned. Positive, too, is that the ticket is provided for the operators. However, I would like to say from my experience that yes, for the Samaria forest there was revenue, but these did not return to Chania, so that in the past the operation of the park was in the air. This was done by a '92 law. I therefore consider, Minister, that you should see the abolition or amendment of individual articles of this or of other laws relating to the financial self-sufficiency of the protected areas. An important issue, too, is the staff of the regions. I agree with the solution you give for 2018. Looks like it's a one-way road. For 2019, there is a clear commitment, Minister, to the notices of posts of indefinite duration and all I can say is that we will be vigilant. Because this is a very serious matter, as people who have been working for years in these areas have accumulated valuable experience and knowledge and must finally stop the hostage status that has been in place so far. I would like to end with this comment: we know that the evaluation process of the candidates for the specific environmental studies for the NATURA areas is under way. This is a EUR 17.5 million project in order to complete the specific environmental studies, presidential decrees and management plans for all NATURA regions. You said, Minister, and that is right - that these will be a dowry for management bodies. However, there have been environmental studies ready in your Ministry for years, such as the special environmental study of Elafonissos. Now it's over, too. I had even received the assurance, when I tabled a timely question, that the Presidential Decree on Elafonissi will immediately proceed. In short, I think that where specific environmental studies are ready they should not wait until all specific environmental studies and management plans are completed after two to three years. Where ready, the contraaor must update the management plans in order to proceed immediately with the relevant presidential decrees. Times are short. Where there is maturity there can be no delays. Finally, I would like to address myself to the amendment by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, because it concerns Crete and you refer to the North Axis and the Crete Development Agency. The North Road 'Axis' must move forward. It is a work of breath for Crete and a project that the state over time owes Crete. That is why I fully agree with paragraphs 2 and 3 of the amendment as they will speed up the procedures for the new BOC. I have one comment - supplement for paragraph 1. It goes without saying that the new BOAK, as a concession project, cannot be managed by the Crete Development Agency, and that is why there is obviously a need for it to go to the Ministry. It would be appropriate, however, for ongoing projects and studies, as well as for road safety projects on the existing North Axis road to remain in the Crete Development Organization, which also draws up the corresponding studies. I know the Minister actually agrees. I hope, however, that the ministerial decision accompanying this amendment will include this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mrs. Vagonakis. Mr. Psychogios has the floor for seven minutes, and immediately thereafter the Deputy Minister, Mr. Famelos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u278	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great deal of temptation not to mention the news. But I'm gonna focus on the bill, just like I'm used to doing, and as I think it should be. One word, however, I think it should be said. I would say to everyone to leave the threats, the curses, either in the House or in the media, where some colleagues are present, and even the reference to the hoods for adopted laws which provide for protected witnesses, to show all of us the utmost seriousness - and I mean everyone! - and follow the procedure to be followed in a case which is extremely serious, that goes beyond the limits of our country. That's all. As far as the bill is concerned, we are pleased, once again, to say that we are satisfied with what is self-evident, that is, a comprehensive and comprehensive environmental strategy and, of course, with the use of natural resources, which has not been done so far. It is a piece of legislation following other legislative and administrative interventions, which demonstrate the general aim of this Government to strengthen and modernise environmental policies. The draft law with the management bodies of protected areas creates an integrated framework for the operation of these bodies throughout Greece, which has been drawn up after studying all the parameters and, of course, after consulting all the operators. In particular, for us representing Corinthia, it is a piece of legislation that comes to complete the government initiative and, in essence, protect the Corinthian Gulf region. As you know, the Corinthian Gulf has been facing huge problems for years, not only environmentally. These problems have recently been reflected in the phenomenon of lushmen flooding the coasts of Corinth. As an experienced self-government from Xylokastro said, the medievals are talking to us, of course, insinuating the lack of protection, rules, the lawlessness that has prevailed for years for the overfishing and pollution of the Corinthian Gulf and has led to the disruption of flora and fauna of the Gulf, i.e. the prevalence of private interests towards the public interest. The Government and, in particular, the Ministry of the Environment from the first moment, has been interested in the problems of the Corinthian Gulf's survival, giving both medium- and long-term solutions with the inclusion of the Corinthian in NATURA. As you know, Minister, we have legislation in the short term, but no one has to do with the importance of the integration of the Corinthian Gulf into NATURA. Institutionally, therefore, all the necessary moves have been made. The Joint Ministerial Decision adopted in December approving the new National List of NATURA 2000 Network Areas was adopted. The Corinthian Gulf is among these areas. Today, all this initiative is finalised, as Article 2 of the draft law provides for the establishment of a Corinthian Gulf management body based in Corinth. In the next few years, we will all be called upon to work together, together with the relevant bodies, so that the operation of the new management body begins as soon as possible and that the management plans are drawn up. For us, this issue is a matter of top importance, which we have set very high in the first place in our priorities. All the time we have been in consultation with the Ministry and with the institutions, but also with the movements, and we are very proud that its integration into the NATURA 2000 network is coming. This responds to a consistent and universal demand of municipalities, bodies, ecological movements for the Corinthian Gulf. This initiative comes to correct chronic deficiencies which led the country to a pre-trial stage with the European Commission because it had not taken protective and management measures for the special areas of maintenance of the NATURA 2000 network. We are, in fact, in line with European data, as it should have been years ago. Beyond these important issues, I would also like to refer to workers in the management of protected areas. The Ministry since the first moment SYRIZA took the lead, in 2015, after our own interventions and our own pressure, took all the necessary steps to defend jobs, and is in constant cooperation and consultation with employees' representatives. So, studying all available solutions, it proceeds for 2018 in eight months' contracts, with the fact that there are strict budgetary restrictions on recruitment. In 2019, however, an indefinite number of posts will be announced to restore to the fairest possible extent the chronic uncertainty and hostage created by the previous governments in this group of workers. Of course, as our rapporteur, Mrs Inglezi, has said, we will be vigilant and help to complete and implement the status of fixed jobs in protected areas. Going to the end, I would like to stress that the environmental policy pursued by a government is not one of its general strategy and priorities. Respect for the environment and an integrated management plan is above all respect for society. For us, these initiatives and others we have received are a strong sign of a parallel programme, a left-hand footprint, which we want to leave to Greek society. It also puts man above the profits, a slogan that we used. And, of course, we are happy to be able to implement it in practice too, because it used to be: Profit and private interests, as we said, were above people and local communities. Of course, it is a prerequisite, when we talk about productive reconstruction, to have these standards. The fragmentary solutions of the past, the patches, the blind eyes to the respective issues are also part of the general pit of customer relations, of interactivity and corruption, of a policy that sees the natural environment as an opportunity for profitability and does not deal with its sustainability, has an end in itself to serving interests and does not deal with the real needs of society. We, therefore, also with this initiative and others that we will bring in the next period, consider that we are restoring injustices, restoring pathogens and continuing on the same road decisively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr. Psychoyo. Mr Famelos, Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, has the floor. Minister, you have the floor for eighteen minutes. Will you take the time of your dentistry, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u280	I guess, Mr. President. Thank you. In any case, I will try to be brief, because I think there is a particular wealth in the position of colleagues, particularly of the Coupling. And at this point I must thank her for her substantial contribution to this bill, but also to the other parties, which I see to be functionally and creatively intervening. It is not the same for the New Democracy, but I will avoid the temptation to start like this. We will talk today about nature and the environment, because many times the political scene in Greece underestimates the real value of real policies that help the country and the country. And these bills actually prove who is a patriot, who is helping his place, who gives work, who gives our children the future, who gives public health and who contributes to these directions. Of course, maybe it's not one of the things they sell a lot on the windows. However, I would like to reintroduce the debate to the central issues of the environment. What are we talking about today? What we're talking about is something old or new? Is it management something, or is it something strategic? There has been an effort by some of the rapporteurs of anti-population to limit, if you like, the value of today's debate. I would like to state clearly - and this is what has been said to the committees, and it is also the result of all the discussions on the Councils of Ministers in the European Union - that this draft law is an incision to the administration, to the protection and management of nature. Indeed, it is not a Memorandum of Understanding or a Managing Bill, but a bill that gives great value to Greek politics and takes steps - we have told the committees before - the country in European policy. And that's because this bill looks ahead, doesn't look at the fines and weaknesses of the past. To tell you the truth, this bill does not talk with fines and a European Court of Justice, because we have solved these by 15 December when we submitted the new list and closed the country's demarcation obligations. That's where the shortcomings were. This bill makes basic, permanent and strategic areas which have been delaying years. First of all, because it is a progressive bill, a bill that recognises the fact that the environment is a development parameter, has a particular dimension of decentralisation, so it supports regional development rather than the Athenian-centered and lobbying of the major contractors supported by the previous governments, it has a strong dimension of democratic programming, it recognises the value of the participation of local societies in local affairs management, it supports and strengthens work on the environment and on the bodies, and it provides practically social tools for participation and codecision. I would like to say this clearly because it was heard by a New Democracy rapporteur, that it is a given environment that is a development parameter and is not contrary to development. I wonder if this has been the case for so many years. If there were so many years, we would not have collected enough fines to be Greece of the New Democracy and of the PASOK champion in European fines. But, in any case, do you remember the recent Greek conversation? In the debate on the Greek, in the latest environmental permits that were speedy and complete, has the President of the New Democracy not come out to say that we cannot be delayed because of the environment, the investments? Now, so, you're changing it, you're filming it differently? You're probably playing the way it suits you and you're laughing. That's a classic tactic, of course. The point is, however, that this government proves that the environment is a factor of growth and gives work and development, because the previous governments had not taken up this terrible opportunity for our country. It is a bill for the environment that is the identity of the Greek soul, of Greek life, of Greek countryside and of work in it. And that's clear to us! What different does this bill make in relation to the previous ones? This bill decides that the management bodies of the protected areas are the main and only tool by which we will protect and manage protected objects - species and protected areas. The previous governments had not come up with this. They had an incomplete list of NATURA - due to the threatened fines - and had only 20% -21% of the restricted protected areas. At the same time, they had a division of responsibilities, responsibilities and limited operational tools in the bodies. Now it is cleared and permanently established - and it will not be called into question from now on, and we know it, so it is incited, because it will remain as a basic choice of the state - that operators have very strict criteria for their operation. At the same time, however, they have to be assessed - and they themselves and employees - with local product performance for local development planning, with local products being projected. And it is an obligation - and I will say it, because it was proposed by Mr Kasapidis - for operators and the possibility of giving signals of origin and area on the basis of the protected object. And I'm going to tell you another thing: Clearly it will be - you said as an example - the giants, the beans in the Prespes, but I would also like it to be about the tourist businesses in Zakynthos with the carnet - carpet or the seals of the Alonissus or any other region. These are key elements in the bill. Thank you, Mr Kasapidis, for contributing in the same development direction, which I believe is essentially progressive and which we can find common routes. We have specific development - if you want - projections and conditions within this bill that comes to complete the four previous steps. Let us not forget these: a specific new establishment plan and an address to the Ministry of the Environment, a large European Union programme - for the first time - of EUR 17 million for biodiversity and nature and special environmental studies that have not been carried out for so many years, which also have a budget of 17 million, which this government has ensured. Although the question had been raised again in 2012, I would remind you that at the time the government decided not to draw up them, so now we do not have the presidential decrees that a Member of Parliament, Mrs Marcos, has asked us why we only have four, five. The answer is simple: why the governments had not prepared the specific environmental studies that we now not only promise, but the budget has been committed, the studies have been published, tenders have been submitted and contracts are now being made. So we've been over the first year of maturation. Why does someone ask, "What have you been doing two years?" That's what we did. We found the money, and we proclaimed it. For example, we also found money for the Hazardous Flood Risk Management Plans, since I remembered it, which were also in the closet in 2012, and then some in Mandra complained about the accident, the great catastrophe and the terrible blood and life tax we paid. Now the resources were found in November 2016 to make the projects now complete. It is in consultation with the Risk Flood Management Plans. They are being introduced and ratified in March, and the country will now have flood risk management plans. So, indeed, this must also be done. I agree. And we regret that we cannot have presiding decrees in place. Clearly, however, the presidential decrees of Olympus, Pambotida, the presidential decree - if I am not mistaken, Mrs Vagonakis said so - about Elafonissi, as are the Delta Axis for the region, are those which are ready now and are in our offices to come out this year, even though special environmental studies have not yet finished. But what we are clear about is that these bodies will remain, because the previous governments wanted to shut them down. Law 4109 had decided to abolish and merge the management bodies of protected areas. And they come today, from another route, some colleagues will put it back on the agenda. We have had a debate with Mr Stylion - and, let me say, it is not personal, the New Democracy bill and I respect it - on the proposal on regional bodies. What, then, does this New Democracy proposal mean by reminding many of the skeletons that were locked in the closet? Because Law 4109 passed him and then posted him with another bill a couple of times. They didn't dare to apply him. So what did he predict for the continent? We have done so, and we are interested in it. It predicted that Lake Pampatotida should be closed. That is what the New Democracy proposes and those who propose thirteen bodies. It was predicted that the Amazon Gulf entity would close, the entity of Northern Pindus to close, the Kalama-Aheron, where Mr. Amyras made a full position on Kalama's special environmental interest, to close. It was also forbidden to close the Jumperican - Photographer - Meteoron organization. That is the proposal of the thirteenth bodies. It was for them to close and become one that belongs to the region, which has a constitutional issue and cannot be there, because the whole "great" they presented was literally built in sand, with clay feet. And now notice this: people came out of the committee of the Parliament and asked us to the body of Jumericos - Photographers - Meteoros to enter the name of Acheloos, which is a special aqueous element of our country, important. We accepted it. And the question we ask the New Democracy is this: After you participated in this joint debate with the care of the people of the place that Acheloos enter, why don't you vote on this bill, have Acheloos, the Jummerkas, and the Agraphs together? Why? Isn't it your concern? Is this the place, after all, only concern for the Left and the progressive and democratic community? That is a question we have not received an answer yet. And I will also expect the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative to speak of his, because Meteora is in his own region. So I want them to take a seat. Should the meteors close? That's a question. So, in Trikala, they don't have a body? It's a question. They must be taken seriously, and we are here to discuss them. But one question arises from the environmental community: Are there areas left unprotected? I would like to make it clear that all national parks are in the management bodies of protected areas. All of it! Secondly, all NATURA areas are in the management bodies of protected areas. And if certain bodies were also neighbouring because they were, for example, in the same water catchment area - which we had in Coronea III zones outside NATURA, but in the same catchment area, because they are protected by the whole water catchment area - they remain in the bodies and these areas. Why did someone ask this question: 'Do they not have areas outside?' Finally, as far as wildlife shelters are concerned - because a question has been raised by environmental organisations - I would point out that wildlife shelters are in the institutions by about 35%, but they are in forest legislation as a whole. Forestry is therefore still responsible for managing this natural resource. So there's no element of the natural environment out of protection. None! All we have to solve is the administrative framework for the 0.2% for the community of Mount Athos. Nothing else. We're done with this story. And it's incision, because it's closing all the issues, and it doesn't leave room for misinterpretation. Do other management schemes need to be carried out? First of all, how can other shapes be needed when 99.8% are in the institutions and 0.2% will be solved for Mount Athos? No more management shapes are needed. However, they remain the participatory advisory schemes that we have already said. Is the number of thirty-six arbitrary? No, ladies and gentlemen, there is not an arbitrary number of thirty-six, because twenty-eight are those valuable bodies, which I described to you who were the example of Epirus, and which were enlarged and of 22% reached about 65% of the country. Furthermore, the following institutions have been set up, which I want to hear from a party or a colleague who wants to be abolished. It is the vehicle of Vora - Picco - Bermion - all central Macedonia, all the mountainous, several counties together -, the entity of the Corinthian Gulf, the entity of western Macedonia, the entity of the whole of Evia, with very many areas, the whole of the southern Peloponnese and Kythera, the area of the Cyclades - said about thirty areas - northern Aegean and central and eastern Crete. Now, in other words, Mrs Bakoyannis and Mr Mitsotakis must go to Chania and say that their party's proposal is that the institution of Samaria should be abolished and that there should be a body in Crete, based in Heraklion. Is it possible to discuss this in local societies? This was recommended by the New Democracy. And I say it because I recently heard Mrs Bakoyannis, who recently said she wanted to be a member of the Chania Parliament. So I say this: is it possible to abolish the Samaria agency? Is it possible to make such proposals here in the Greek Parliament, outside any reality? However, on the other hand, I would like to make it clear that there is something else that Mr Stylus has rightly put in - I accept that - and this is the concern for the workers. He's asking us why we don't permanentize the workers. Why didn't we permanently simulate the workers in 2015, 2016, in 2017? I do not know if you are aware of this, but let me inform you: the Minister for Administrative Reform of the Governments of Samaras, Mr Mitsotakis, has agreed with the lenders on a recruitment restriction regulation. Do you know that the country is forbidden to recruit the public sector and is it forbidden to convert fixed-term contracts to indefinitely because they are considered hiring and are being cut because of the choices of your own government? Is it not hypocrisy to ask this government, which has not just supported the country in the difficult times of bankruptcy, but is taking it out of the programme too, why does it not recruit the workers who you have legislated and agreed in the first memoranda to ban the recruitment of workers and to support the public sector in the environment? Isn't that a little hypocrisy? I'd say it's too much. I tell you not to worry. We have taken the difficult responsibility of supporting workers. On the one hand, you are accusing us of recruiting contractors with eight months, which we say will be done for the people who work with the agencies. And I ask you: 'Do you want or do you not want these people to continue working?' You cannot blame us for recruiting contractors when we say that this is addressed to the workers. And, on the other hand, because we predict unfinished positions in 2019, you accused us in your speech of magnifying the public sector. And you say you support the workers. But what you have said, both with regard to contractors and with regard to indefinite time, is to fire them. Twice you said we should fire them. Nor do you want them to be contracted indefinitely in 2019, because the public sector is growing. We therefore tell you that we are proud to enlarge the public sector in the environment. And we won't only have these workers. These bodies are entitled to the new areas they take, but also to the new bodies - the other eight - to publish eight months and then to declare unrestricted positions, because that is how we will gain the meaning of the environment in the country. That's what all Greece wants. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I'm sure he doesn't want what you say, though, to shut down the agencies, especially the Jumperican institution. And you're from this area. Mr. Kasapidis' model must say that it is closer to our thinking. But is there one question: is the bill coming late? I want us to be clear. Why have you been late - you say - three years to do so? I would like to tell you this: this bill comes after a ministerial decision that has spatial data and after a surveillance programme determines all areas of NATURA in Greece. And I don't know if you remember that the NATURA regions of Greece were 6% of the marine space and now it's 22.3%. Concurrent growth and correction has also been made in land. First, we finished with the entire surveillance programme, with the results of spatial data being made, the KYA coming out, we found the money to do the special environmental studies, the LIFE programme has been approved, and we are now coming to do the institutional framework. This bill was not in jeopardy with fines. I told you anyway. In fact, we have consulted a great deal - six months - with a committee in which - to make it clear - the Forest Service participated. Because I have heard from a colleague that the Forestry was not involved in the planning of the bill. But they were members of the working party, not just participated. The Forest Service and its staff were members of the working party, along with the Secretary-General and many other members of the Ministry. For we also hear things that I do not know exactly what they are looking for. I understand the concern of some colleagues in terms of work. The Democratic Reconciliation has put it in. It's crucial to us. I, too, agree with what the SYRIZA rapporteur and many SYRIZA Members have said, that we will be here to protect and ensure the continuation of work, because the previous governments have substantiated this continuation, making workers constantly contracted for about ten, twelve years. But let me make it clear. Can there be an extension of contracts today, after twenty-four months of extension, to the Green Fund which was artificial respiration for workers? Anyone who suggests today that workers' contracts should now be extended is like showing them the door to exit. It is hypocritical, because the Greek Parliament knows that, with the decisions of the Court of Auditors, contractors cannot be extended for more than twenty-four months. Anyone who suggests it to their employees is mocking and dismissing them secretly. And they've done this party in here. We say, therefore, that, because there is this strict financial framework for 2018, we are giving the workers the opportunity in 2019 by means of a call for indefinite time, but for this year we will continue with the environment of the fixed time. They will, of course, be further served, because this question has been raised by both the Potami and the members of the Democratic Partnership. And of course we will have from the organograms themselves and a position profile, too, for the first time. And for the first time, we also have a regular budget, with a certificate from the General Accounting Office of the State, in the draft report. I shall continue, Mr President, in my remarks. We also ensure that this also has support from the Green Fund, because there has also been a question of concern about the Green Fund. Well, let's just say some more truths today in plenary. The Green Fund, where too many fines go both from arbitrary and forest violations and environmental infringements, has a rule of memorandum, which commits 97.5% of resources and allows us to use only 2.5%. If anyone shares this concern with other parties, we welcome them. We are also concerned and want to use 2.5% more and we are preparing an institutional framework for this. I hope, however, that it is not the people who agreed 97.5% to be committed. They do not, at least, belong to the parties that were in the Samara - Venizelos government who agreed to this, so that we can also be clear. Together, however, we will prepare a new logic for the Green Fund, which is not at risk from workers, to be a little clear, because it has surpluses and reserves, I mean that it does not absorb all the resources every year, so it is not at risk from workers. I would therefore like to remind you of the basic elements of development. I said that's enough. I think that a product-specific article, local GDP, hiking paths and other elements of operators are also in place. I would like to remind you of the issues of the board of directors, the fact that they are seven, with up-to-date responsibilities, involving local societies more than the members of the public who will obviously be replaced by a possible resignation from the same body - Mr Arvanitides asked it - because he respects the rule of composition. And also that, where we define the content of the petitions, let me clarify that, it does not mean that we determine what is written in each of them. The contents, the chapters, the axes of which are to be mentioned, the structure of the reports and, of course, the quality and characteristics of each report. Of course, we now define the planning of bodies, actions and staff, we update responsibilities and, of course, we also have a debate on annexes. I would therefore like to make it clear that, apart from day-to-day administrative and bureaucratic issues, there is now a possibility in the annexes. And I have already referred to the case of Amyntheus and Vegoritis, I have said it to the committees, and I confirm it, as well as to the environmental club. I believe that Mr Seltsas has made a very important contribution to this debate. I just want to remind you that in the first edition of the law it was a single Western Macedonia and central Macedonia, which obviously also responds to budgetary constraints. With a proposal for consultation, it was divided into the mountains of Vora and Bermion, central Macedonia and the lakes of western Macedonia. The fact that the previous government had decided and closed down the entity of Kastoria was for us, if you like, the opportunity to place a seat in Kastoria, in response to those who closed down the entity of Kastoria. But we also agree on the aqueous potential and the environmental burden of the wider Vegetablet basin and Amyntaius and the possibility and need to have an annex there. This will be done, Mr Selcha, and I am committed to this and to the institution, even though his positions have not understood exactly our intention. We will, however, find them in a democratic and cooperative process. From there and then on on the issues of Kalama, I think we need to have a special debate. Whenever it takes, we'll get out of here. It is not here that my colleague from Potami is here, but there is no question, it can also be made at the timeliness level. I would like to inform everyone, however, that the project for the management of water basins was updated at the end of December. We now have plans for all of Greece to manage water resources and also that the management plans that will now be carried out for each NATURA region will be carried out by region rather than by body. So there will be possibilities to see region limits again and no area left out of care. I'll hang up with the Thermos Gulf. The Thermaikos Gulf is a special case, a special point, with special loads and great interest. There was a chronic, constant request from Thessaloniki for the body to take Thermaikos. The discussion on the Thermaikos wanted a lot of attention, not to mess with the responsibilities, not to get tired and lead to a dead end with a new bureaucratic structure or an Athens service, an Athenian center. We have chosen to remain the responsibilities of all actors in Thessaloniki and in the wider central Macedonia - because Thermaikos is not just Thessaloniki - and to put all these responsibilities on the same table. We followed the United Nations resolution in Rio on the 21st-century agenda, which provides for the principle of Local Agenda, which is the local environmental pact for important aspects of the environment. So the responsibilities remain with the bodies of Thessaloniki and the wider Thermaikos, but the environmental agreement for a better Thermaikos also exists, because the state comes and covers the administrative costs, equipment costs and the cost of master plan to start the Thermaikos working. In the course of this debate many operators and many regions of the country came and asked for similar advisory bodies and environmental organisations, such as WWF and several others. We are therefore giving this model of the advisory committee with all the local, social partners - tell them as you wish - to be able to transfer it. The Mayor of Volos asked for it, I tell you one example, for the Pagasitikos, has asked for other areas. There can therefore be an advisory committee to all bodies with a recommendation from the board of directors that responds to who local stakeholders are interested in local development. But the Thermaikos is a state's responsibility and starts first. As far as the articles of the forestry legislation that exist are concerned, we do not legalise any illegal activity. All the activities in these Articles are required to have environmental authorisation and to take it out now. We give them time to take off the environmental license. All the rules of association with the Ministry of Rural Development have also been complied with, because I have heard that there have been no co-responsibility and no signatures. As far as ski conditions were concerned, the provisions were in the form of ski conditions. And to make it clear - I think the Communist Party of Greece put it - that the ski resorts could function as forest land, but could not be 'NATURA'. While the strictest is forests, they were allowed as forests. So we now say that this is corrected. We don't change forestry legislation or make discounts. It is clear that this is done in accordance with the licensing procedure. Secondly, the same is true of camping, because campings were in the functions that could be developed on forest land, but they were removed and another law, n.4280, where there were complex tourist accommodations on forest land, i.e. private houses and hotels, but a municipal camp could not exist. Shouldn't we solve this? It's just logical. So the municipal camps and camping that exist must get environmentally licensed and give them the opportunity. And with regard to Article 18, because I think that's what's left of us to make something clear. We have said from the outset that there are no administrative acts concerning - that is, the outdated old forest land in NATURA - arbitrary constructions. We only talked about growers, not constructions, such as houses and various other arbitrary ones, which are not activated. We had made it clear that this cannot be done for areas that were evacuated after the declaration of protection. And we clearly recorded the declaration of the national parks - one large group for the national parks coming from '38 - the Ramsar regions - about '74, '75 Ramsar - even the 'NATURA' declaration. So those who came out before these dates can go to the procedure provided for by the law and make the following clarification: "Without limiting the land use of the special environmental study." In other words, the special environmental study will come, and if the one we have now announced does not provide for agricultural activity in that area, it has not been legalised for agricultural activity. It does not, therefore, commit any specific environmental study and the management plan. It ensures that, until the project was completed, the activity and possibly a subsidy, if this was subsidised, will be valid for the rest of Greece for the forest maps. Of course, I think it is clear and, since I have not heard any negative attitudes, you agree that infrastructure could be available in NATURA areas, because Thassos, Samothrace could not have water. And recently mayor Agias had come and told me that in Kissavo they cannot make irrigation and fire-fighting tanks. Such infrastructure must be carried out by environmental authorisation, of course, with the agreement of the Forest Service and with intervention permits. I have completed, Mr President, with regard to my position. Only two words about the amendments, which I accept and which I do not accept. The amendment by Mr Lazaridis, under the general number 1469 and specialist 176, is accepted - you have presented it, Mr Lazarides - which concerns the places of worship that exist. Only them. As regards the ministerial amendments, which I would like to present very quickly, I would like to tell you that the first concerns forest maps. In the forest maps, therefore, and in all areas which now have an uploaded forest map, the deadline for presenting objections by the citizen is extended until 30 May, for the main reason that the municipalities have to complete the mission of settlements by 15 May. It will therefore come out tomorrow from the Ministry and will send a document to all the municipalities to send the settlements so that the citizen knows and does not possibly do unfairly and does not pay for the paradox, even though it will be returned to him even if the municipality retrospectively makes the settlement, the citizen will not get into trouble, while this can be solved with the municipalities. So the forest maps are being extended, and the register undertakes to send and incorporate the boundaries and contours. The second amendment concerns the existing mountain shelters. And here's a mistake by Mr.4280 that I want to explain. In paragraph 12 of Article 52 of Law 4280 the procedure, if you wish, of the opinion and the accreditation act adopted by the EOT is effectively abolished by the Ministry of Tourism. There is, therefore, a point of order, a contradiction within Law 4280. Rehabilitate this process. It enables the issuing of credentials and, therefore, the legitimate functioning of mountainous refuges.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u281	What paragraph is it in?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u282	It is proposed to replace paragraph 12 of Article 52 of Law 4280. You see it in the amendment, though. You've been given. It's about mountain shelters. Basically, a bureaucratic, procedural issue is resolved. There is the possibility of an act of credentials to issue the licence. Because the licence was provided for, but the accreditation act and the Ministry of Tourism and the EOT could not go any further and give us an accreditation act on licensing. We solve it within the competence of the two ministries and close it. One question has been raised here, because there is no obligation to reafforestate. You understand that on the footprint of the sanctuary, which is usually stone, no one can refresh where the building is. We're talking about the print and the space that the sanctuary occupies. This can't be forested again. The next amendment concerns the amendment of No 4014. Here quite simply is an amendment to Directive 92/2011 on environmental licensing. It's procedural. It doesn't change the ranking of projects. It's a directive, we need to incorporate it. It's Article 1. Article 2, too, is important. It is referred to as ‘repealing paragraph 10 of d.o.b. 22-6.’ This, ladies and gentlemen, concerns a very important problem, the problem with Schhenia. We have here since 1998, if I'm not mistaken, decisions to demolify the taverns that were there in the pine forest. We have had four convicts so far from the European Union. We have received four sentence letters from the European Court of Justice. There was a decision by the Council of State in 2001, which provided that the taverns were definitively demolished and could not be transferred to another region. In Law 4280, however, even if I am not mistaken, it was envisaged to be transferred to another area, which was prohibited by the decision of the Board of Appeal. So that is a solution. They can't be transferred. In fact, it gave them a year to be transferred. After all, one year has elapsed. It was not possible to determine the extent, but, in order to avoid this legal uncertainty, we are resolving it, and there are already some demolition decisions in the area. The next amendment concerns the National Water Commission. I would just like to say to you here that it is added 'the respective Minister or Minister'. She's a woman who has issues of social solidarity. Because in water policy the issue of vulnerable social groups is of interest to us. And they are added to the National Water Council two non-governmental organisations, one or one representative of environmental NGOs and one or one of social NGOs. If you want to have social, too. At the same time, we have the last amendment on the issues of residence permits. This provision extends the residence permit to citizens of third countries who expire from 18 January to 28 February and are legally resident. It's practically the following. There is a hypothesis - to be precise - in the Directorates of Immigration and Immigration and a great increase in powers. In recent times these services have had too much load and in addition had a closure of the information system. It is all written in the explanatory statement. It's not secret. It is therefore possible for this deadline to be extended for citizens with a residence permit for a month and for them to be able - if you wish - to carry out any legal action that permits them to stay. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I am sorry to have completed the presentation of the bill and the amendments. And I don't think I'm gonna have to say anything else next. I think that the bill brings the debate back to the real political context. It is part of productive reconstruction, fair growth and better Greece. It's a bill on the environment of this country, so for the children of this country, to stay here, to have jobs, to produce products that have the right signals, to have proper added value and to progress. It's a memorial positive for the country. It's a memorial of production. It is a social agreement of production and progress. It is a democratic, progressive and pro-environmental bill, which gives Greece prospects. In particular, it gives perspective to the country's rural and periphery, and that makes it more valuable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-seven students and students and two teachers from the Drama Music Gymnasium (first section). Thank you for being with us. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Screkas has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a personal statement. The government three years has now been working on the leadership of this place, working in my view on three main axes. Firstly, in a strong and shameful propaganda of disinformation and disorientation of the Greek people, accusing the previous ones of justice and injustice, while the government itself governs this place at least three years. It is the longest-lived government in the Memorandum years in our country. Secondly, the massive creation of new public and public structures, as well as the improvement in the efficiency of the state machine and of the services it offers to Greek citizens, will improve if we create massively new public structures. And, thirdly, the permanent postponement of the resolution of the major problems and major issues, which the government systematically pushes back to after 2019, thinking that the problems will disappear. But I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that the fact that you and the government do not see these problems does not make them invisible. On the contrary, these are growing and gigantic and will unfortunately break into the hands of those who are next and will naturally be burdened by the Greek people and Greek citizens. I will give you two examples. The first concerns garbage, waste management in Attica. In Attica today, about one million tonnes of urban waste a year are produced. And the question of the present ministers - because the Minister spoke of patriotic behaviour and patriotic responsibility to solve the major problems and not let them perpetuate - is: What is the patriotic solution they have proposed three years ago and what have they done to solve the problem of waste in Attica, when everyone knows that in about half a year or a year the Gender HIT will be closed, because there is no possibility of accepting other waste? And the question that really makes sense is this: What have you done three years to solve the problem of waste management in Attica? The previous government had a plan. He had set up a plan. He had identified four waste management plants, he had identified the sites, proceeded to competitive procedures, the beneficiaries were appointed and were ready to start. You have come here to cancel all of this, and you have gone through a new plan to make five or six such factories instead of four, a little smaller, of course, you have introduced impossible targets than it can be proven, because a year has passed recovery at the source of recyclable materials and you will eventually end your four-year period and you will not have put a single brick to do something about the management of Attica waste and you will be inherited from the next. What is the patriotic duty and what is the patriotic effect you have brought? I don't want to talk about PPC, because the Minister is here. The previous day we read in PPC's report that the business advisor who has found after a thorough study that PPC today cannot borrow viable, that PPC's debt is non-viable. And, as the information says, the Minister can disprove, if he wishes, in order to make this debt viable, PPC will have to make cuts or increase a margin of half billion euros, etc. Nothing's happened. On the contrary, PPC's position is difficult every day, its stock exchange value has unfortunately been degraded, has lost a powerful asset - the best asset it had - IPTO, and lost it 100%, sold it out substantially, to get just 200-300m euros. And see how he'll pay taxes in 2018 where the taxes are about 600 million. PPC will pay tax for the return of the shares of IPTO to private shareholders and will pay for this resulting tax. In other words, PPC will pay the tax on its private shareholders. That's what this government has achieved. For a word "sale" PPC has practically sold out. The effectiveness, ladies and gentlemen, of the government is unfortunately not judged by the announcements or intentions. It is judged by the results, and unfortunately your Government is very poor in the results. This is why he has unfortunately resorted to a propaganda of disinformation and disinformation of the Greek people, and something from your political influence is saved. The Minister mentioned before about the patriotic duty he has undertaken on environmental protection with sustainable development for environmental protection in the country. I fear, Minister, that you have retreated too much into this practice of inexpensive propaganda and misleading and also distortion of reality. And because you spoke of fines and who was and when Greece was the champion of the fines with regard to the environment, let me say three elements in order to understand, ladies and gentlemen, the mockery, which is trying to achieve here in the Chamber. In Greece, for the past three years, unfortunately, it has been charged with waste disposal sites, 48.4 million, about 50 million, over the last three years. For biological cleaning, which is not working properly, 24.38 million, and for hazardous waste 18.9 million. In other words, Greece has paid 91.74 million to environmental fines over the past three years. That's it to put things in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u285	Everything was your governments' traditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u286	You should not, Minister, plunder and throw everything away the previous ones, trying to cover your own government's failure. And because, my colleague, the Minister spoke of skeletons, in addition to the skeletons I mentioned, the management of waste in Attica, which is a huge issue and a criminal one, and beyond PPC, which I hope will not shut up and give a solution, really, Mr. Minister for Environmental Protection, what a fine Greece expects to accept for the operation of the biological purification of Thriassio in 2018? Have you appreciated that? Can you tell the Plenary Session of the Greek Parliament? As time runs out very quickly, what you have done today I suggest you do not continue to do so, because you do not offer services in this way. You did it to the committee when we discussed the bill. You said, for example, that Mr Mitsotakis, when he was Minister for Administrative Reform, chose to close the management bodies. That's a fake. It's an obvious lie, it's untrue. It was never decided to close the management bodies. What had been voted on by the Greek Parliament was to merge and become thirteen management bodies, which would have limits on the administrative boundaries of the existing regional units, so that better coordination of the administrative structures already in existence would not have to be defined and new double and triple public structures created, along with existing structures. There's a management body. A responsibility has been attached to protect an area, to protect an object. It should work with the forests, with the port, with the municipalities, with the region, in order to achieve this work and to protect it as appropriate. Why do you disagree with that? Who said the agencies would close? You've taken this out of your mind, because no one said it. You say, 'We have a problem', it is yours, 'both. In both habitats and protected species. We have been sent to the court twice by the European Commission. For your own deficits, they blamed the previous government." You're too untrue. Why are you lying? There are no convictions at the European Union Court on matters of the nature of Greece. Firstly, the fact that the European Commission puts forward various allegations does not mean that they are correct. Secondly, in any case, the Commission is pushing - and rightly so - for the adoption of the President-in-Office's protection orders. And I ask you: how many presidential decrees have been passed on to FEK in times of SYRIZA? There is a conviction on SYRIZA for the Kyparissikos, Minister, and you know that very well, because you have not yet gone ahead with the draft Presidential Decree, which was prepared in 2014. You then modified it, but you can't pass it through the S.H.E.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u287	The S.T.E. He rejected it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u288	You don't want to hear. You cannot pass it through the S.H.E., because it had to have been a strategic environmental impact study and meet requirements, and you have not done that for three years. You've been convicted for this, and you blame the previous ones. It comes - you say - the Member of a region - you mean that Members of the New Democracy always blame - and recommends to Parliament that we abolish the Jumerican institution. From your mind and that! Who said to dismantle an agency? We are talking about mergers of operators. You will tell me what happens when a protected object belongs to two or more administrative areas, which will also be the regions of the management bodies. What's going on today in the water basins? So, how does the Acheloos water catchment area manage two different regions? Of course it can be done, because how to protect, as you know very well, a protected area is provided for by a strategic environmental impact study, a specific environmental impact study and management plans. That is what will happen and that is where this can be done, that is to say, that it should be supervised at the administrative level of the regional units of the country in order to coordinate and better guard these regions, which you do not do with this draft law. As for the workers, have you implemented, Minister, what you promised them beforehand? I don't know if you guys did this, but someone promised them they'd be appointed. It's been three years. You said quite unequivocally that the New Democracy had agreed that no recruitment should take place. I inform you that in the 2015 budget, which was passed in 2014 for the days of the New Democracy, ten thousand recruitments were foreseen, those which you have been doing for three years now and had also passed by the institutions and had agreed. On the basis of this prediction you hire them today. Why, Minister, did you not anticipate - in 2016 - the organization of your Ministry to recruit forty - forty people as permanent staff from the three hundred and fifty-seven and make fun of them and leave it for next year? You can see that there is always a contradiction, especially when what is heard in this Chamber is unstable. The distortion of reality is flagrant. The main question is simple and major, ladies and gentlemen. Today, according to the Minister, the twenty-eight management bodies are not working effectively. The question is very simple: Since the twenty-eight management bodies, as it is so far, which only cover about 30% of the area of the protected areas, do not work properly, tomorrow, when the twenty-eight themselves will have twice as much space to cover and we have eight new bodies, and we also have new areas that have joined the NATURA regime, how will the system work better? What's the cut in this bill? What is different from what the previous bills did? What tools do you give them? What money do you give them? Nothing. Have you read, ladies and gentlemen, the provision for financing? General and vague. It will take money either from the state budget or from the Green Fund or from Community money or from revenue which it will have, private revenue from exploitation, from use - to say it correctly - within areas with jurisdiction. Where's the money? Where do you see money? Where do you see the staff? Where do you see the organograms? What staff will these management bodies work with?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u289	Mr. Screka, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u290	I shall conclude, Mr President. No politician offers work by accusing the previous ones. I accept that judging what you have received is legitimate, to make, say, an indication of what you have received. To conclude, however, now your constitutional period of governance - three years and go to the fourth - and continue to deal with what happened and what you have received three years now, as I have already shown you, to become the "come see" in Greece, I think that this at least does not offer any work to Greek citizens and to the public interest. That's why I urge you to change it as long as you can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u291	Thank you very much. Mr Karayannis has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u292	Mr President, I have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u293	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u294	The only argument I take from Mr Skreka is that we have three years of accountability. I do, however, wonder about two issues. First, why are you coming back to the subject of IPTO? Explain it for a million-dollar time. It's literally the millionaire time. You decided to sell the entire IPTO. Good or bad, the current government said that IPTO would remain 51% in public. So we have two companies: PPC, where the public has 51%, and IPTO, where the public keeps 51%. So you participate in two companies and the rest of the department is sold. The government remains a shareholder of 51% in both. In fact, as you know, the rest, which loses IPTO, must be compensated to PPC. The public didn't lose to IPTO. It maintains 51%. That's the transaction. She's fair. I can't think of anyone else. I wonder what you're saying that PPC is reducing them and paying private individuals. The private shareholders of PPC were compensated if they lost their participation in IPTO and PPC pays - who else to pay for it? - and the tax that corresponds to this transaction. Close this chapter. Any other way would violate the basic principle that the public did not sell. He remained a key shareholder in IPTO with 51% and remains a key shareholder of PPC, since the privatisation plans of PPC itself, for which Nea Democracy was so happy, were not able to implement. Secondly, you have been destroying PPC every month in the last six months. You said it would collapse in June. It didn't collapse. We went in the fall. You said 'they are now falling apart, they will not get loans from the banks'. Go ahead and that's it. They're renewed. Thirdly, I told you that PPC has taken 1.2 billion liquidity this year, which enables it to finance its lending over the next three years, which was heavy. I don't remember it being our fault for this excessive lending. Previous commands had made him. We haven't received such loans, I think, in the last three years. And the financial pressure - which you solved with loans of three to four years - we solve, refinanced PPC's lending and shaped a medium-term repayment scheme for its loans. So PPC has all the tools to progress with stability and do what it has to do. I repeat that you tend to read publications, which you think are producing political news. I read the report that PPC's consultant thinks they're not financially sound. That's not true. PPC made thirty-two denials. It's not true. What can we do? You read it, a reporter wrote it. The New Democracy is prone to saying something and to reproduce it and to make it political. The answers are simple. This is not the case, nor the 500 million cuts you have invoked, nor the unsustainable debt of PPC. That's barely the other way around. The consultant has just been hired to answer two questions: first of all, debt restructuring, so that it is fully viable. Secondly, how will it receive more of PPC's debts, which need a very complex technical study and build all the business plan in the next few years. That's what had to be done. I think we are moving forward in this direction. I can assure you that in 2018, as you failed your catastrophic forecasts in 2017, PPC will proceed normally. The financial data came out - I think - again rejected you. I conclude by saying that 'the facts are facts', which also says Chakalotos, to invoke. The facts are facts. We can't fight about whether PPC's stock collapses or has an upward trend. Decide. Well, look. It is fact, it is assumed that PPC's share has improved significantly over the past six months.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u296	Mr President, I would like to mention something about the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u297	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u298	I would like to inform you that Annex 1 of the draft law has been re-issued in a more legible form and on the basis of legislative improvements. I would remind you that the Annex is the titles, the names of the bodies and all the coordinates of the limits, and for formal reasons you should know that it has been re-issued and at your disposal, based on legal improvements. Mr President, at the end of the day, I will submit all the dates of the violations of the country's environmental fines referred to earlier by the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, where it is shown that they have all been made in the PASOK-New Democracy rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u299	Mr Karagiannis has the floor, immediately after Mr Thrafaniotis follows and then the two parliamentary representatives will be placed, Mr Theocharopoulos on behalf of the Democratic Asylum and Mr Xydakis on behalf of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u300	Mr President, add another speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u301	Mr Theocharopoulos and Mr Xydakis have been asking for the floor for far too long. If you want Mr. Xydakis not to speak immediately after Mr. Theocharopoulos, talk later, consult him, but you know that Parliamentary representatives have the right to speak whenever they want to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u302	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u303	Are you in a hurry to leave? Here before you told me you didn't have a problem and talk to everyone on time. Mr. Karayannis, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u304	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if we try to put a title to this draft law, it could be 'Environmental protection and Sustainable Development'. The reason is to shield the institutional framework for the operation of the protected areas of the NATURA network through management bodies, with a view to preserving biodiversity and protecting the national natural capital in terms of sustainable development. To date, our country has demonstrated fragmentary solutions in the field of protection of the natural environment. This makes it imperative that a new management regulatory framework should be established, with management bodies starting up institutions in the environmental governance process. This draft law records the following positive points. First, management bodies are recognised and established as the scheme governing the protected areas. Secondly, all the NATURA 2000 areas, both those that exist and those proposed, are covered by a 100% body. Thirdly, state funding is provided to meet the needs of the National System of Protected Areas through the budget, unlike Law 2742/99. The thirty-six management bodies, twenty-eight old and eight young, will almost cover the whole network of NATURA regions, including its imminent extensions. This is an important step forward, greater European deepening and practical environmental sensitivity on the part of the government. Specifically for Epirus and the Ioannina Prefecture with the important mountain ecosystems, the North Pindos National Park takes over a total of twelve areas of the network, while the respective Tzoumerko Park operator covers all of the areas of eastern Epirus and western Thessaly. These two bodies cover all the mountainous areas of the Ioannina Prefecture with rare relief and unique nature, which hosts many species in danger, such as the wild boar of Pindos and the last couples of the small migratory vulture with the common name ‘Asperpirus’. Unfortunately, poaching and illegal deforestation of rare plants for pharmaceutical use on the Greek-Albanian border continues, despite all the efforts to control and to make protection synergies between the two countries imperative in this respect. It would be my omission, however, not to mention the very important work of the bodies of Lake Pambotidas, Ambros and Kalamama Aheroe. There, as has already been said, there are problems that I think the Ministry intends to resolve. Thus, the continent with the five bodies fully covers the areas within the region and can more easily highlight its comparative advantages in tourism and the agri-food sector. Here I find the important development opportunity offered by this draft law by providing for the role of players in local development, the promotion of local products and the operation of hiking paths. A characteristic example is the Tzoumerkos National Park and the region's certification as a viable tourist destination from EUROPARC. It is the first Greek region and one of the two European level. The amendments relating to agricultural holdings, camping, mountain shelters and infrastructure projects are also in a positive direction, without prejudice to the respect of environmental licensing procedures, as well as the possibility given by Mr Lazarides' amendment of the aid to be given to single, cell and mesh sized projects. The use of the natural environment with the new tool of grazing management plans can give greater added value and extroversion through the relevant certifications in livestock products produced in the protected areas. They are products, as the European experience shows, which have a significant demand on the market for high requirements and special gastronomy, and European resources can be provided for their promotion and promotion. According to the research carried out by DIANEOSIS, NATURA 2000 areas, protection and sustainable development, the benefits for the national economy of exploiting these areas can be reached by EUR 2 billion per year, with provision for the creation of ten thousand jobs. At European Union level, the NATURA network accounts for twenty-six thousand regions and covers 18% of the Union. Benefits are estimated from EUR 200 billion to EUR 300 billion per year and represent 2% to 3% of the European Union's Gross Domestic Product. In particular, it offers the European Union 4 million four hundred thousand jobs and 405 billion annual turnover directly dependent on maintaining healthy ecosystems, most in NATURA areas. In conclusion, I would like to highlight the important regulation - although it has been withdrawn to join a specific bill - regarding the establishment of stray animals centres. It is a big problem, which should be dealt with in the best possible way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr. Karagiannis. Mr. Panayotarus has the floor. Mr. Thrafaniotis, please show me your patience so that Mr. Panayotarus would speak, who had informed me he would come shortly after his turn. Mrs Karakotas, three will speak before the parliamentary representative. But again, you are in position 22, so all the Members of Parliament will have spoken before your turn. Here, Mr. Panayotare, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr President. The various 'Samarovenezes' should keep their mouths shut and not rust in the channels for manipulating justice, for the gratuities that are happening, for you are guilty in this case of 'NOVARTIS', because either you are guilty or you are guilty. If the case is fiasco, you are guilty because you are the first and you voted for the law on the hooded witnesses and you were the ones who "transfer" the third political power - and I put it into the introductory "transmit", because it was probably your permeation back into the face - and you were the ones who called for court phones - the various "Babyides", the "Macids", the "Panathinaikos" and the others. You were the ones who set them up in the most stubborn and miserable way and, as you opened the pit of the Golden Dawn, you fell into each other after each other. The then Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, fell together and his government, due to Golden Dawn. Who remembers Mr.Michelaki - who was from the team that "cooked" all this drive against the Golden Dawn - when all the channels and the media went somewhere to Coroppi to find the gold Dawn weapon in a museum of Palli, but looking to find the gold Dawn armour, they found an agenda with those who "speak" Pallis and the first - was the MP of the New Democracy and Minister, Mr. Michelakis, who "taked it" to ask questions for the benefit of some businessmen. When this case came at some point, the case-file in Parliament, while there was the possibility of being referred back, nor did the SYRIZA Members vote for a referral. When the President-in-Office asked whether any of the MPs had something to say, a New Democracy MP, an eminent professor of law and much more importantly, took up a reason why Mr Michaelakis should not be referred back. This Member, who was not elected and soon thereafter became President of the Republic, was Mr Prokopis Pavlopoulos and deserves to come in and see his speech because he should not be referred to the Member, who "take it" on behalf of a businessman. And we are now seeing all those who were in the forefront of what happened, the confusion of powers, which the Prime Minister himself - and there are sound documentaries - was calling the packets to shut down MPs and many other things. Now, because they're partly in this position, they're shouting and crying, so if it's a construction, remember what you've done a few years ago. But if it is not a good thing, and it is true, and the information is too much in this direction, because it is not about domestic investigations, but about the investigations of the world's largest and most powerful state, the United States, the United States' capital market committee, which they do not play. There if someone goes out of the Stock Exchange, crazy to be, stupid, and say "Back the stock", he goes to jail for life. Not like here with the sluts you were manipulating the Stock Exchange and making politics. The FBI, the Capital Market Commission and others have decided that this company was oiling and oiling, a bunch of politicians, and this case, if the government wants to do so, but unfortunately we doubt whether it really wants this - and it is going to come to the end, who'll prove it, who took it to the detriment of the Greek people. We say that it is almost certain that some people took it, because we have the precedent of 'SIEMENS', which has proved to have received the two major parties normally, were given percentages on all the contracts that were closed with the Greek State, but almost no one was punished or rather one was punished and he has fallen the curse of the entire rotten and dirty political system. That is what we are seeing now and laughing at, because, anyway, you are experiencing and understanding what injustice, if that is the case, if you were to take it with Samsonite, because you have even advanced the hatreds from the Pampers you have passed on the Samsonite runners, ladies and gentlemen, who are accused of what you are accusing of. Now let's go talk about the bill. Mr. Famelos is gone, but it's okay. I am going to dwell on the amendment concerning the taverns in Schinia, which shows the greatness of this state, an incredible clandestineness in all areas, which, when it arrives at the amenity, is taking some spastic action. On the one hand, it says, in order not to pay any fines to the European Union, but on the other, it destroys the livelihood of some professionals. And it's not just the violin, these taverns. There are about seventy-five years there, it is an integral part of this pine forest of Schinias and what was happening in this very nice and special space included these taverns, where the ordinary Greek citizens were going, doing their bath, eating anything else. We say first of all because you have made legal mistakes - your lawyers will have told you and now you are trying with an amendment to ball the ballots - that you will pay them gold for these taverns. Gold will pay them with what you have done now! They'll ask you for incredibly escaping gains from this until the moment you make the relocation that the S.E.D. has said. And you don't do anything, because you don't know what's going on. Now we go to the script, because you love nature and you want NATURA, let's get these out of there and there'll only be five pounds to sell orangeades and lemonades. No cars, because cars will park miles away in a parking lot. So you'll have to pay those simple familymen go there. Then they will have to pay a public transport, which is not there, will probably be built to take them to the space. And not in space. He'll leave them a five-and-a-half feet away. And the families will go in their trunks, with their chairs, with their towels, etc. And because there won't be any, of course, these taverns who kept the place clean, the landscape will become a vast dump. Because, as the state cannot maintain its existing infrastructure properly and clearly, it is not going to do anything about the pine forest of Schinias. It'll be the pleasure of free camping and every hawali, to see what happens. And that is a matter of one or two years. Of course, there's something else we don't know about. Because half the land belongs to a very large political family, maybe later, after these taverns leave, we can see something else blowing up to serve this world nicely and nicely, to see what's going on. I shall conclude on this matter. Your sensitivity, gentlemen of SYRIZA, in arbitrary and illegality, has been seen, when you too have supported and put wide signatures for the greatest arbitraryness of the world, The Mall. Instead of showing the good example, you're chasing the taverns, the dirtbags, the ordinary people and leaving your friends, the ones who, from what we see, also put ads in the magazine "RADIOTELATION", inexperienced, infinite to continue their spectacular work. And, at the same time, I will refer to a last amendment on the northern axis of Crete - it is also the Minister from Crete - a lousy road, where many Prime Ministers, ministers from Crete, did nothing at all. Now you're thinking of changing the data. It may be good for it, but there is no timeline for how it will be the northern axis of Crete and when it will start to be built. We have made a suggestion to you, and with other interventions, that for the current road, until something new is done, because it is certain that it will take you a long time, you could just do things: clean up the emergency strips, where the squids have fallen in the middle of the road and there are no, do a deletion that is not anywhere, fix the lamps, which are burnt and do not burn you to change, put some phosphory signals in the middle of the road. You can just do things, let's save no life until you build this road. And judging by the speed with which the piece from Heraklion to Hersonissos, which is located in the third, fourth year, is probably the northern axis of Crete, it will take too long to be done, even in the new form that you want to give to the new body, who will manage it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Mr. Panayotar. Mr Thrace, you have the floor and I thank you for your patience. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Theocharopoulos and Mr. Xydakis will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to make a reference to the rapporteur for the Golden Dawn. They think they will be purified to the "Mikis Theodorakis cave" for their criminal acts under judicial investigation. The songs of Yannis Ritchos, James Kabanellis, Manolis Anagnostakis and so many others were written because they embodyed the action and sacrifices of the national resistance fighters, the prisoners in the Nazi concentration camps, the prisoners in Bubulinas, Macronissos and elsewhere. These songs belong to the Greek people and their struggles. They don't rejoice, they don't be assigned, they can't be singed by donors and nostalgics of the occupation troops. The bill we are discussing, ladies and gentlemen, creates the preconditions for more protection of the natural environment. When developing specific environmental studies, accompanied by draft presidential decrees on land use and management plans for protected areas, the protected areas of the country are demarcated. We turn them into a development tool and create management bodies to which the local society is largely involved, thus strengthening the local and national economy. Prior to the adoption of the Joint Ministerial Decision, the protected areas of the NATURA network amounted to four hundred nineteen. Now, with the new proposal, there are four hundred forty-six, while the organised regions with institutions were only eighty-nine, now being created, eight bodies and the coverage will be global, reaching 99.8% of the areas. The existing bodies already account for 65.6% of the country, while the new bodies will cover the remaining 34.2%. It remains the 0.2% on Mount Athos, where there is a special situation, and the forecast is in collaboration with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to protect it. In Crete, apart from the already existing Management Agency of Samaria, which is an example of proper operation, which will also cover the Rethymno Prefecture, the Eastern Crete Management Agency, based in Heraklion, is also established and will cover Lassithi Law. And the question arises: Is it necessary to create and manage management bodies? Obviously more necessary than ever. I shall refer to some characteristic cases in Lassithi, where there are areas of particular natural beauty and they need immediate protection. One of these is the only Mediterranean palm forest, the Vai palm forest, with the so-called Theofrastos palm tree in the area of Sitia and which is directly at risk from the red beetle. The contribution of the new management body will be decisive for its availability and for the protection of this unique forest. There is a confusion here, if you like, of the co-responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Rural Development, so that the beetle cannot be treated as preventive. The second thing I want to talk about is the island of Gold, to the south of Ierapetra. It is a tourist destination with rare and special characteristics. On the island is the only sized but also threatened forest of archival or seashed. It is a unique island for the archaeological sites - there were the quarries of the birch - but also for its famous sandy beaches with the million shells. Last summer we were all witnessing the uncontrolled, illegal and abusive exploitation of the island, to the extent that the natural landscape is at risk, to see the danger. A proposal for a management body has been submitted. Located in the Ministry's drawers. It is now part of the new Eastern Crete agency and we hope that solutions will be given and proposals for its disposal. Three, the Selakan forest, a rare and unique pine forest with a significant contribution to the production of special quality honey and added value with a significant contribution to the local economy, which has been at risk of fires repeatedly. Also, the plateau Clean in Kritsa, where there are the only paleontological findings of dwarfs and elephants in the world. To see the importance of management bodies for protection, it is sufficient to note the fact that the area of the findings, which has been delimited and covered with membranes for their protection, was wrothed by some residents, because they thought it belonged to them. Finally, the Lassithi Prefecture is creating a serious problem with unprecedented grazing, which also employs many regions in the country, but in Lasithi it has taken particular proportions. It is, of course, due to a minority of farmers, who are very intruded and blackmailing the image of their colleagues. Reconstituting the Farm Guard, which was abolished in 1993, without provision for protection within management bodies, together with land improvement plans, would contribute effectively to protecting the environment. And before closing, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister a question and, if the answer is yes, a request. The protected areas include the geoparents. If the geoparks that have joined the UNESCO World Geopards Network include the same protection measures as the NATURA areas? If not, I think it would not be useful, but necessary to include them. But you know, our country holds a privileged place on the Global Geoparkon Network, with five already integrated areas in the hundred and twenty-seven world, and these are Lesvos, the Vourikos National Park, the National Vikou - Aou, Psiloritis and Sitia in Crete and an extraordinary one is being discussed, that of Syros. They are also described as monuments of nature and they require such protection. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is another tool in trying to protect the environment, which is a cultural reserve and as part of our cultural heritage, we have a duty to protect it, because it is the next generation and not just our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mr. Thraniotis. The parliamentary representative of the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Theocharopoulos, has the floor immediately after Mr Xydakis. We will go to the list with three speakers, Mr Saridis, three other speakers, and Mr Sahinides will follow and we will conclude with the parliamentary representatives and continue with the list until the end of the meeting. Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u310	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing another bill of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, which concerns in particular the management bodies of protected areas, an institution which has existed in our country since the beginning of the 2000s. Unfortunately, however, the debate is taking place through institutional and protracted conflicts, as well as national challenges, which, unfortunately, once again create polarization and division. It is extremely regrettable that, while at this time we should be discussing the country's productive reconstruction, through a national sustainable development plan, to really lay the foundations for the country's exit from the crisis, we are faced with a political situation and behaviour below the occasion, at various levels. Over the past few days, we have had and still have the issue of negotiations with FYROM, the issue of the name and the wider problem, which must finally be resolved and not dragged away for decades. Our party, our institution, the Democratic Reconciliation, the Potami, the Change Movement took the most responsible attitude from the beginning. We have said that there needs to be a commonly accepted solution for all uses, both inside and outside, and, of course, with the necessary guarantees on the issues of alkaliism. We have not changed our attitude in time, as other forces have done, such as the New Democracy, which was dragged into a reasonable voter during the previous period. And of course, we have said that this nationally responsible attitude requires us to have national understanding and strategy, which has not happened. It cannot be done in our country or in the Council of Heads of State or Government. Because there is no common position in the government and the President of the Independent Greeks disagrees. On the other hand, Mr Mitsotakis says 'I will not go to a Council of Heads'. Next, in the neighbouring country, they cooperate, they consult with the Heads of State or Government, and there can be neither the necessary consultation in the national responsible attitude and position of our country since the beginning of 2000, in 2001, since the mid-term agreement in 1995, in 2008, after Bucharest. And this national attitude should be held by our country over the last period. We, at the same time, have told you that we will be responsible when an agreement comes as a result of negotiation, which will address all these issues as a whole and, of course, we will place ourselves on this result of the negotiation, which we have not yet seen. And in this climate, not entirely independent of this, on the next day of the Athens rally, we have another issue to raise, the issue of the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. This scandal is being investigated both internationally and in our country. It is inextricably linked to the attempt of multinational pharmaceutical companies to speculate through the excessive increase in pharmaceutical costs. To say things as they stand, in our country, drug spending more than doubled from 2.4 billion to 5.1 billion euros at the Government of New Democracy in 2004-2009. At that time there was chaos in the drug field, with overpriced, uncontrolled underwriting and much more. The political responsibility here is enormous. This is definitely a scandal. Now, if there is any involvement with privatization - and I do not just mean politicians - this is another issue that remains to be investigated, proved by justice, without political intervention. Because everyone in the same sack gets riddled again. After 2009, the country made drastic measures to limit and control drug expenditure and from 5.1 billion to over 2 billion in a very short time. The opposite was the case between 2004 and 2009. The position of the Democratic Alliance is 'all in light' on the basis of institutional procedures. To find and punish, if any, some who are responsible, whether they are political persons or not, but without procedures that actually give us the right to talk about drunkenness. And I'll say why. Because in politics Timing has its meaning. This case is being dragged out for years, it is being recovered at the very time when the government was in a difficult position, in panic, with the rallying of last Sunday. The references to these methods are therefore well founded. It is now enough for the millennial work on 'a corrupt political system', whenever there is a difficulty. So we're not going forward. Besides, the co-pilot, Mr. Kammenos, was Minister in 2007. He was a member of the government in 2007-2009. He was a Member of the New Democracy at that time. Mr. Papagelopoulos, Deputy Minister of Justice, was President of the EPA at the time. So what scandalology are we talking about in relation to the past? On the one hand, we have ethnicism, on the other hand, the Scandalology that keeps the country stuck in the past. We say "they will surely be investigated, but the Justice will be allowed to do its job undivided and to assist the Greek Parliament where it can". But for this situation of scandalology - which does not honour the political system - with the mud in the fan, does the government not have any responsibility? Does he not have responsibility for the climate he grows in society? Are we not playing dangerously with the institutions when we violate the principle of separation of powers? And I'm talking about the visit of the Government representative, as if he hadn't had to, on Monday. I am talking about the mandate of Prime Minister - of course, we have heard this too and it reminds us of old times - except, of course, its responsibilities. With unprecedented lightness, then, the mud is thrown into the fan. And the problem with mud is that it sits and many times increases the country's abstract forces. The country must not sink into the gutter that will eventually swallow the entire political system. The place needs national understanding and what is being done is to promote division and polarization. This has to stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u311	Mr. Theocharopoulos, give me a few seconds for an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-four students and students and three teachers from the 1st High School of Igoumenitsa. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u312	I am therefore returning to the bill we are discussing today for the management bodies of protected areas. We have no mood of sterile criticism on this matter. I also think that we have proved this and that is why we are voting in principle on this draft law. We are, of course, asking some questions to which we also want the answers. The role of protected areas operators is extremely important in preserving biodiversity and in sustainable development. The fact that management bodies are recognised and established as a scheme governing protected areas is a positive element. The bill, of course, presents weaknesses and contradictions. It will take many more steps to achieve the desired result. It is provided for in the bill on stable state funding to meet the needs of the National System of Protected Areas through the ordinary state budget. We know, however, that neither the regular budget nor the Green Fund can - not enough - cover the scope of the management bodies' activities. There is also no specialization of the Ministry's role as a central coordinator of the National System of Protected Areas. There is no adequate involvement of management bodies in the preparation of action plans and in the supervision of their areas, except in a second phase and a corrigendum. The management of the bodies is another important issue, as the transitional period is extended until the permanent coverage of the positions needed. I'm not staying on this. The special rapporteur for the Democratic Association, Mr Arvanitides, has raised this issue and raised the concerns of our prolongation with regard to this issue. The extension of the territorial competence of operators also increases the number of local and other actors involved or affected by nature protection. It is known that many times there is a conflict between tourism operators and nature protection bodies. But this reality does not seem to be dealt with in the bill. Continuous consultation, cooperation and coordination of all stakeholders are essential for the effectiveness of the project. In this bill, this does not seem to be guaranteed. It also does not solve fundamental operational problems faced by management bodies in these fifteen years of operation, as their responsibilities are not sufficiently clear and distinct, prolonging confusion with other co-responsible authorities. Anxiousness causes the oxymomile to exist arrangements that, for once, change the multitude of forest legislation in a bill aimed at protecting nature. The illegal establishment of various projects and interventions in protected and forested areas is hereby ratified, which, in addition to continuing illegality, undermines the citizens' confidence and promotes it to illegality. And I am talking about granting legal permission to existing mountain shelters and other amendments and regulations that have been tabled. We must accept that there was no other way of resolving the issue. However, some questions remain, which do not appear to be answered: Why not pay a fine? Why should they not be subject to standard environmental studies? How can it be ensured that the legalisation of illegality does not constitute a bad precedent and will not lead others in that direction? Unfortunately, in Greece, the tactics of money laundering or, worse still, the salt card of money laundering have prevailed. However, every sense of rule of law and legal certainty is being circumvented. The same wavelength is the legitimateisation of camping. Individual purpose of the provision is the announced intervention of the Ministry for the licensing of camping on the island as an additional help of the state in restoring the operation of the island after catastrophic flooding. Right, to be restored and predicted. However, one wonders whether there was no other way of providing assistance than legalization of this kind. On this matter, Minister, the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament is revealing. ‘Annulment of the reafforestation in accordance with those provisions shall be permitted only if it is found that the purpose has been fulfilled, i.e. that the recreation of forest vegetation has been achieved in order to exclude the possibility of illegal destruction of forests or forest land.’. And, of course, it says: 'It must be applied as an entirely exceptional measure and, of course, measures must be taken at the same time', which are not taken, 'with which it is attempting to prevent the repetition of arbitrariness and to ensure that the environment is kept to a minimum. Only in the light of the above to investigate each scheme on a case-by-case basis.’; The report by the Parliamentary Scientific Office itself says it if you do not want to hear our arguments. Furthermore, the codification in a single text of the diffuse provisions concerning the management of protected areas is still lacking. Of course, the immediate application of the provisions of the bill is called into question when only one article - Article 3 - provides for the adoption of six ministerial or ministerial decisions. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] In conclusion, it will not be the first time that a positive proposal - so we have been dealing with it from the outset, so we have dealt with management bodies - because of fragmentation, under-financing, under-financing and lack of continuous consultation and cooperation between all stakeholders and local societies, a bill that could and could have a positive orientation, may remain inapplicable. That's why we're asking these questions, so we're doing the interventions so that it doesn't go unpunished in practice. Vision and good intentions are not enough. There is a need for national planning, consultation, consultation, cooperation and coordination of all involved and, above all, removal from obsession. We have not been persuaded by the present government. This is where he needs a job. And, unfortunately, in this context, there is no proper preparation and appropriate infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u313	Thank you. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's bill I find a consensus from all sides, with the paradoxes of the Opposition. Major Opposition proposed various improvements within the body of the law, accepted by the relevant Minister, pointed them out and thanked the colleagues of the Opposition, the rapporteur of the Opposition pointed out that "yes, they were integrated" and then said, "at first we are voting against". These are the paradoxes! I could say that the opposition is aware of certain things. Of course, he may not understand what "integrated ecosystem management" means or exactly what "ecosystem". That is why the observations are on the administrative division and geographical limits. There are some difficulties in understanding a holistic environmental policy and how it relates to development, environmental protection, whether it is called 'agricultural tourism' or 'local sustainable development' in crops and in all sectors. Maybe they're political difficulties. However, it remains this persuasive refusal to accede, to agree even with things that you applaud and to which you add remarks. In any case, I see an acceptance from the other parties. We see, in other words, that there are areas in which, in this historic turning of the crisis, nobles and wises see that, together with the ever-needed confrontation and conflict of political positions, there can be convergences or compositions and fields in which the moral, mental and political commitments of the forces that form the state and the political space are needed, so that things can move forward and come out of this historic period of our country from this trap that is self-supporting. I have also listened very carefully to Mr Mavrota's speech from Potami and to Mr Theocharopoulos' speech from the Democratic Assent. With Mr Mavrotas on both major political issues which concern public opinion and Greek democracy at the moment, namely, in the case of the NOVARTIS case - I do not yet call it a scandal, we will see the national dimension, it is in progress - and in the case of the Macedonian case, in the main lines, I would agree with what he has said. He was assembled, sober, very careful and very promotional in matters of national interests and political order. And with Mr. Theocharopoulos, even though he always raises tons. It must support the formation to which it belongs, which has not yet crystallised its identity and is still hovering between the great tradition of progressive and democratic forces and the flirt of the last decade with the forces of the Right. Despite all the injuries they've had, they can't clear it up yet. The Macedonian has shown a stand for cooling and sobriety. Other tons. And that is exactly where I think that, as other colleagues have said in Parliament, and especially in joint events before the public opinion which took place - and should have taken place a long time ago - and which took place the day before yesterday, there was a very interesting initiative by Fotis Kouvelis, in which Fotis Kouvelis himself spoke, spoke to the President of the Parliament, Nikos Voutsis and spoke to Mr Spyros Dannelis, a MP from Potami. They did not say the same things, but they were in agreement on the basics, and they were heading in a specific direction with political arguments, with historical documentation and, above all, with awareness of the historical responsibility of the entire state system, not even of the politician. And I think that in this direction, initiatives should have been taken which do not threaten the party battles, the identities or the distinct political spaces. On the contrary, they highlight the individual features and show the citizens who are following us with great anxiety and great confusion, that there are common places and when the political forces want to define the national interest, they are able to find and support it. I therefore support the fact that at a time when big foreign policy issues are being debated in terms of soul and emotion, some are sharpening bayonets on the pedestrians' ruins, some dare to smell from the sewers of the crimes for which they are being tried and come to light and some warm-blooded people from the church are aspiring or nostalgic assimilation of 1916. To bloodyize the then Venizelos, to curse the present political system of the Third Hellenic Republic. It must be on the horizon of our thoughts as far as the health of Greek democracy is concerned. It must be on the horizon of our thoughts what is happening in the Balkans in 2018. It must be constantly in our minds what happened with the division of Yugoslavia in 1990-1992, what happened to us who could not see the division of Yugoslavia and the liquidation of the borders in our neighbourhood. We need to remember very well what happened in 2001, when the UCK armed forces caused Tetovo to clash, which lasted months and led to the brink of the collapse of the fragile democracy in our neighbouring country and what happened after the Ohrid Agreement to this day. Until the summer of 2017 the threats of seismism, secession and segregation and, ultimately, entry into a phase of questioning borders and terms of national sovereignty for the UN Member States, as we know them, are still next to us. Our neighbouring state has the dangers inside. And the presence of a strong economic and political and ethnic, let us say it, a country such as Greece, at their borders, should only act as a guarantee, security and certainty for themselves. That's why they're looking forward to us. This is the new political situation, as it forms, after the instability of last summer and the intervention of the foreign factors that helped them to return. They say a proverb: "You will either be on the table as a couple or you will be part of the menu. In the last twenty-five years in the Balkans, Greece has found itself in the menu, eating it. We should be acquainted with ourselves as strong, as guarantors and fellow believers and inspirations of all neighbours and with Albania, with which there are occasional tensions with Bulgaria, which, after many decades of tensions and conflicts and occupations by 1944, now have a friendly relationship and a relationship of cooperation, so with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, we should be together, discuss and go together. The years of Greece's great economic expansion in the Balkans benefited our neighbouring country, Greek businesses benefited, it appears that the national income was also benefited as a whole. We're on a retirement. This does not mean that Greece will not be expanded again peacefully, commercially, spiritually, culturally and above all politically. As far as the scandal is concerned, in this case where public opinion is concerned, public opinion is watching the political world awake in the microscope and with an increased degree of mistrust or suspicion. Inside the rally was expressed an anti-parliamentary and an anti-political trend. There are heavy slogans about the political world, severe slogans about parliamentism are heard. It is a distrust or even a tiredness from democracy. The task of the entire state system - and I repeat, a state and not even a political system - we of the elected Members, but also of the judges and all and senior civil servants of the state, is to defend this democracy, its functioning, to improve it, to consolidate it, to broaden it, and above all to inspire constantly the citizens, that democracy can solve the problems of society and the economy and the entire rule of law. We are also taking this lesson from the emergence of the extreme right in the years of the crisis and from the emergence and consolidation of a hard, blind right of hatred in many countries of Europe. The case of "NOVARTIS" puts us in a dilemma in an existential political dilemma. On the one hand, Greek democracy should show that it has the will and the means to impose rules of transparency, justice and punishment, if necessary. On the other hand, heretics, politicians, should show that in the name of a short prevalence, democracy is not allowed to make it a arena and a Colosseum, it is not allowed to criminalise political life. On the other hand, politicians feel they are affected, let them themselves seek to explore. Let's not stay behind the limitations and the indiscriminate ones. On the other hand, again, it is a unique historic opportunity for the Greek justice, for the judiciary, to show that it has the courage, the will and the sense of the historic mission to carry out its work and to assist the society and state, which it serves and to which it belongs and is accountable. At least morally. It therefore puts us many tasks on a very historic time, a historic moment on which Greece is trying to get out of the eight-year dark path of the economic and social crisis, a moment when Greece is trying to find a new geopolitical pluralism in a difficult and fluid environment, but it also presents some opportunities and a moment when society itself and democracy seeks an increasingly self-confidence and optimism in order to avoid the risk of splitting, analogy, introversion and internal collapse, entrepreneurialism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u315	We're continuing with Mr. Sifakis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u316	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today is very important for the protection and management of the protected areas of the country and for the fact that it covers all the protected NATURA areas of the country, but also for the reasons that it rationally and realisticly regulates the issues of their operating framework in such a way as to ensure their sustainability and the greater effectiveness in their work. It is still very right that the legislative direction should be that management bodies be operators of sustainable development in their area of responsibility, so that they will also protect biodiversity, but without restricting the development activities that are compatible and respect the environment in which they are located. In this way, the management bodies of protected areas will not pass into society as bodies that prohibit or make it very difficult for development efforts in the region of the country, but as development agencies for sustainable development. Furthermore, the institutionalisation of their ability to finance them from the RIS budget in the prospect of full funding in this way streamlines their operation, because it removes them uncertainties, which is reasonable to have a significant impact on the programming and implementation of their actions and on their staffing. The composition of their boards in the way proposed, ensures the effectiveness of their administration, as well as the involvement of representatives of local government I and II organisations, scientists from the universities of the country, as well as non-governmental organisations and associations, thus implementing their decentralised and democratic function. Along with the twenty-eight existing bodies - twenty-five of which extend their area of responsibility - eight new actors are founded. Personally, I would like to welcome the establishment, for the first time, of bodies managing the 'NATURA' mountainous mountainous areas in the Prefectures of Pella, Imathia and Kilkis, with a temporary seat in Edessa, but also in the areas of Florina, Kastoria, Kozani, including the six lakes of western Macedonia, along with Lake Vegopolis, which is administratively owned by one section and central Macedonia. The establishment, for the first time - I repeat - of management bodies of the mountainous forests 'NATURA' of the Vora - Paikos - Bermíos with temporary headquarters in Edessa will contribute to protecting the forest environment and biodiversity of the area, which has very important forest ecosystems and will also contribute to the development process, enabling cooperation and programming at the level of an area where this possibility has not so far existed. The establishment of the Protected Areas of Western Macedonia, including six forests and six lake ecosystems, will certainly contribute to the protection and rational management of the region's lakes in a uniform way. The concern of the inhabitants and residents of the lake area around Amydion, including Lake Begoreitis, shared between central and western Macedonia and the fact that the temporary seat of the new operator will be in Kastoria, can be addressed by establishing an annex of the vector in Amytino or Arnissa and the presence of the historical Wergoitis protection club, which we have successfully fought together, very important battles in the past to protect the lake, on the board of the new operator. Here we welcome the Minister's commitment - and in his speech today - to both of these issues, which demonstrates that this government listens to and responds to the reasonable demands of local communities and the concerns of the people who are struggling to protect the environment in their region. From there on, of course, the head office of each management body makes sense not to play a decisive role in shaping its policy towards the whole area of responsibility. The concern expressed at this level can be said to be excessive, because the essence is protection and sustainable development rather than the seat. Nevertheless, the fact that this concern has been taken into account and an annex will be established close to the area of these lakes - berth and the other three lakes around Amynteos - I think it shows the particular sensitivity of the government to the concerns of the inhabitants and operators. After all, the decisions, so far, for the protection of Lake Vegoritis were made in Athens, far farther away from Kastoria. In conclusion, this draft law will be a tool for sustainable development, rational management and strengthening the institutional framework for the protection of biodiversity in protected areas, with management bodies operating in development, democratically and effectively. I sincerely believe that it deserves the broadest support from all the political forces of Parliament, but also from all Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u317	We're continuing with Mr. Diarah from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, environmental protection has nothing to do with party limits and class positions. It concerns both the poor and the rich. Everyone breathes the polluting air, either in the Old Psychic, or in the Vineyards, or in New Ionia. But it is mainly about our children, grandchildren and future generations. It is about other forms of life, beyond human beings. We have a moral obligation to protect nature and natural resources. We must, however, make a point. Nature is mainly destroyed by the illusory system of aggressive neoliberal capitalism of multinational enterprises that destroy economies, societies and nature. It is destroyed by the system of persistent overconsumption. It shall be destroyed by the production and consumption model that has been imposed on an improper basis. The solution for a sustainable welfare system starts with education and information for citizens. Today, the bill under discussion strengthens all management bodies in protected areas for the protection of the natural environment. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, it has been clear from previous discussions in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that lakes, lakes, rivers and forests are not protected in our country to the extent necessary. The nature and, unfortunately, areas of rare ecological value are downgraded, despite sporadic legislative protection measures. It is therefore necessary to intensify the protection measures, but also to strengthen in practice the protection of the environment, by informing the citizens, but also by providing more checks and penalties for the illegal. The draft is clearly positive and measurable. Prior to the bill, the proclamation of new NATURA networks. The number came from four hundred nineteen regions in four hundred sixteen. The country’s surface that was placed under protection increased from forty - two thousand square kilometers to about fifty - eight thousand square kilometers. In other words, we had an increase of about 27%. The bill covers the whole of the NATURA - i.e. 100% - of the management bodies, while to date only 21% was covered. This is why the scope of supervision and management of many existing bodies is widened. Eight new bodies are still being created, and their number is twenty-eight is rising to thirty-six. Also, for the first time, 4m euros are available from the state budget, because so far there has been no single euro available from the state budget. Also, 6 million euros are available from the Green Fund in support of operators and also committed by the NSRF 25 million euros. It is also important that through dialogue in committees it has been ensured that management bodies have participated in drafting and reviewing the management plans, which are very important and missing from the initial plan. Positive is that the Minister today announced the strictening of the provisions of Article 18, in the interest of protecting against infringements and arbitrariness in protected areas. All this highlights today's bill as an important and positive step towards the environment made by the government, which we Greens support. A series of laws - environmental decisions, such as the new national waste design, forest map legislation, recycling to reduce plastic bags - which already have concrete and good results - have a recent law on energy cooperatives and so on. Today we are discussing this important bill, which is added to the institutional immunity of nature protection. I should like to comment here on the criticism of the New Democracy. The addressee of the New Democracy said it was negative that the extent of the actors to cover all areas is increased, but without a change in the rules of operation and organisation of operators. Accepted to some extent. It also calls for less operators, as well as the administrative regions of the country. And I say to you as an economist that, for example, the Ambrosian cannot be divided in half, and half is protected by one in the region of Epirus and the other half in the region of western Greece. The ecosystems cannot follow administrative limits. That's our difference. Also, it is not so easy to move from operating entities to another regime that will unite them. And you know how many difficulties this will bring, with negative consequences, as far as the environment is concerned. However, you have admitted a number of positive provisions in the bill, such as the increase in the area of areas and other things. How, then, can the New Democracy state that it will not vote at first, when this bill is obviously much more positive, more positive, for the protection of the environment? Apart from the above positive points, I must point out a serious issue concerning the protection of NATURA areas from mining. Many ecological organizations have put it in place, particularly from Epirus: in order to protect precisely the NATURA areas that we are discussing today, but also public health, we must immediately review and tighten up the legal framework for the extraction of fossil fuels. These minings have many impacts on soil, water, natural wetlands and on air, making it impossible to coexist with these activities with other uses, such as rural activity, forestry, fisheries, tourism and activities of great economic, social and environmental importance to our country. The current legislation does not explicitly prohibit the mining of fossil fuels in NATURA 2000 network areas. We should therefore discuss immediately the prohibition on hydrocarbons extracts, at least in the protected areas. Let me make it clear that the European Greens and the Greens in Greece are against mining in the Ionian Sea, but also in general. We need to adapt the country's energy planning to the obligations of the Paris Agreement. Many countries have already started the first steps towards decommissioning fossil fuels. Thus, in December 2017, the French Parliament passed a law prohibiting any mining activity on hydrocarbons as part of the climate change strategy. Our country deserves to legislate for environmental protection and for the future of our children. Minister, I would like to express the satisfaction of the ecological organisations for the legislative improvement of Article 18, which I mentioned above for infringements in protected areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u319	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u320	Mr President, let me give you the legible annex, which I mentioned above, and which is at the disposal of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u321	Mrs. Thleritis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u322	Ladies and gentlemen, I will only refer to the political topicality, but to a few words, that the desperate attempt of the old system to speak of a construction on the part of the government around the scandalous practices of NOVARTIS is a reality. Who's that? That the practices were not revealed by the Greek prosecution authorities. NoVARTIS is located in the microscope, which has been located since 2014, of the Americans following complaints by competitors about unfair practices. So the importance of the representatives of the old system to define as a political persecution what they refer to is indicative of the perception of powers and the right to immunity. The government will calmly await developments in defending the separation of powers, but defending the need for Greek society to finally know what the practices of the rulers have been over recent years, which led to these practices in our country. In moral decline, in economic crisis and depreciation of politics. Therefore, we are waiting. Let's move on to the bill. What is the main aim of this bill that we are discussing today? Strengthen the institutional framework for the functioning of protected areas. How does that work? By strengthening the institution of the management bodies of protected areas. Why are the management bodies of protected areas being strengthened? They shall be strengthened in order to achieve specific environmental and development objectives related to the conservation of biodiversity, the protection of the country's natural capital in terms of natural sustainable development, the strengthening of the local product and the strengthening of regional development and labour. Is the changes introduced by this bill necessary? In my opinion, it is absolutely necessary, if we consider forecasts for the management and management of protected areas included in a number of laws passed between 1986 and 2013, plus two European Union Directives on the environment and wildlife, which, as you know, also sets out the list of protected objects in the country and defines the special conservation zones and protection zones, which together form the map of protected areas of the NATURA network. You understand how necessary it is today to talk about a change in the institutional framework. In our country, therefore, the list of NATURA 2000 regions included four hundred nineteen regions. The current government is increasing to four hundred and forty-six regions, i.e. new areas, particularly coastal areas, while extending the limits of the existing areas. I would like to stress here, despite the fact that the institution of management bodies is not new, since it has been introduced since the beginning of the 2000s, but has as an institution, as most of us know, problems, a multitude of problems and, above all, has worked to date. I will not mention examples of this fragmentation, only to remember the unpaid and numerous administrative boards, to remember the problem with staffing and the paid staff, which, several times, had no staff since the establishment of the management boards. Therefore, at this time and on the basis of what has been said above, there is an urgent need to establish a new regulatory framework for the management and administration of NATURA networks. This new framework has been established by the management bodies of protected areas, these will have the primary role, as an institution for environmental governance, but also as a tool for the formulation and implementation of collaborative management of natural resources. This draft law covers the whole of the NATURA network from four hundred forty-six - four hundred forty-five in a uniform way, namely the integration into the territorial competence of management bodies in two ways: the extension of the areas of responsibility to the existing one and the establishment of the eight new ones. Summing what is accomplished? What are the eight policy objectives? Firstly, that the territorial competence of management bodies is regulated, smaller and more efficient administrative regimes are set up and, in particular, the four members of the local society from the seven, and that is very important, the possibility of setting up unpaid advisory committees to assist the work of the administrative boards is being updated to the work of management and responsibility of their administrative councils with a focus on local development issues. There is still employment for existing workers in management bodies by extending eight-month contracts and that is because in 2018 you are well aware that there are restrictions on recruitment. Here I would really like to refer to the rapporteur in the New Democracy, who really missed me his late interest in the suffering of workers in management bodies. And for what he said that we are not interested in workers, I would like to stress the importance of workers' stay, and that is what we are now proving by establishing agencies and job profiles in 2018 and in 2019 that the notice should come out so that these 'traditional' workers can secure normal contracts of indefinite duration. In conclusion, I should like to refer to the very important fact, namely the establishment of the management body of the protected areas in the Corinthian Gulf, which covers a large area from San Marina to Gerena. I believe that the accession of the Corinthian Gulf to management bodies will have a huge positive impact on the protection of flora and fauna of the Gulf, which is now being tortured by various levels of infections, will contribute catalytically to the awareness and information of the local population about the needs and standards of protecting this valuable natural resource and will make a significant contribution to highlighting solutions to address the great problem of the monks present in the region. And here I would really like to highlight this problem about the effects it has on the local economy. In addition to the management studies envisaged by the management body, I think that the Ministry should work with immediate protection measures, precisely so that we do not have these huge effects on the local economy. This should be the subject of a meeting of all the stakeholders to address this problem. And if a management body had been set up a few years ago, we might not be talking today about the meadow problem in the Corinthian Gulf. Finally, the management bodies of protected areas can indeed become one of the key tools available to us as a state and as a civil society to manage our environmental resources in terms of sustainability, respect for ecology and, of course, in terms of justice and democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u323	Mrs Drittelli has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill for the management bodies of protected areas is obviously a critical structural and developmental intervention in the direction of environmental sustainability, because it does not only regulate administrative loose ends in relation to national and European obligations, as the New Democracy means to claim, but mainly raises on a new basis the protection of the country's environmental stock as a whole. Civic Opposition, unfortunately, tends to interpret many times in sterile administrative terms developments in relation to environmental protection. The same attitude, of course, was also in relation to the forestry maps process, and it was in the same position as a government when it had deceived management bodies. Here I should like to make a point because, above all, the Civic Opposition has an approach of micro-political, micro-particular and localist, because its officials in the local prefectures, but also Members here, on the one hand, criticise the fact that we have been setting up too many bodies from the outset - we have heard the New Democracy proposal for thirteen bodies - on the other hand, most of them whine because there is no management body in the prefecture itself. There are New Democracy officials who have been in key positions in previous years who are deceived by the bill, whining because in Trikala, we are putting a larger crowd in NATURA areas, such as Meteora, for example, and on the other hand they are making announcements saying that to get approval for anything we should ask Yannina completely degrading. So you have to decide what you want. Do you want management bodies? Do you want to have more management bodies? Do you want there to be management bodies involved in critical issues in terms of their responsibilities or not? Because the functioning of these bodies can be a development measure for us, a part of the development that we are pursuing. You seem, as you always think, that the environment, the NATURA areas, the natural beauty of the country may be a grasp, from which you must definitely get rid of it. I believe, however, that the functioning of these management bodies can also contribute horizontally to what we call sustainable development, in our view, and also to the creation of extended local and regional cooperation schemes on issues of local and regional interest. And this cooperation, where it is happening elsewhere in Europe, includes both environmental science experts, local and productive actors, who are active within these regions, with a view obviously to linking local social and development challenges. So it is a strategic interest in the country to strengthen the management bodies, their stable staff and their horizontal interconnection with the local economy and society. And such a scientific and administrative platform together with the expansion of the protected areas of NATURA, the suspension of forest maps, the creation of a new legal entity governed by public law on the register, and the revised framework for the treatment of arbitrary construction are the pillars for protecting the country's natural stock. The new bodies also go beyond the local administrative limits and are planned to operate on a rational regional interconnection. In many regions, bodies from different regions will be invited to work together and work on common objectives. This reality also presents challenges, but the main objective is to overcome the narrow administrative limits in the management of natural wealth and to tackle these challenges holisticly. Thus, for example, the Trikala region is essentially being strengthened in this issue of environmental protection, because the recent Ministerial Decision on the NATURA network is part of the protectionist provisions of the entire mountain forest stock of the prefecture. Including Meteora, the mountain complex of Aspropotamos and Antichasias and the entire area of Koziaka and Pindos. With these arrangements, the entire Western Thessaly is now the management of the new operators, especially for the county. The entire protected area is part of the management body of the National Park of Tzoumerkos, Valley of Acheloos, Agraphs and Meteoros, the logic of interregional cooperation, which is essential for the holistic sustainable environmental management of these mountainous areas with the unique natural architecture and cultural beauty. Obviously the challenges of such an enlarged area are also present and it is certain that the effectiveness of the new body will also be judged by the potential for work that it will eventually have. In any case, however, the effort falls on solid foundations and it is certain that with the continued support of the state we will be able to show the uniqueness of these monuments even more. It would also be interesting to see how management bodies can be linked to scarce environmental development resources and infrastructure in Trikala. In particular, in the environmental stock of Aspropotamos, which is to be managed by the new operator, unique infrastructure, such as one of the three public trout plants of Greece and the last state timber plant fuelled by the sustainable management of the region's public forests, operates. These infrastructures should also be studied by the new management bodies and by the central administration, so that they can also be exploited in the direction of the reproduction of local biodiversity and the preservation of traditional anthropogenic activity. Since we are going to win this bet, then, that is to say connect the management bodies with the local communities and traditional management, then the whole natural reserve will be upgraded. In conclusion, I would like to stress the fact that with methodical work the Ministry responsible for the environment has made a decisive contribution to changing the image, in relation to environmental protection in Greece. We want this effort to be widened even further with the aim of imprinting it and the country's overall productive model and especially the Greek region. The counties need dynamic multifactorial approaches to the environmental, economic, productive and social problems that concern them. Such approaches can be developed through this draft law, and similar initiatives can also be created from the basis of participation and local government. The main aim, therefore, is to make fair growth a common objective, with social and environmental recompense. In this context, in my opinion, management bodies are key but also valuable tools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u325	Mr Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my introduction with one observation, which has been the result of what has been regrettable in the past few days. SYRIZA doesn't have opposition and transport and literally and literally. Look at the benches here in this House and you'll see what opposition we're talking about. The government has no opposition. The Opposition and especially the Civic Opposition have other things to do with it. That's the truth. Whether, then, we accept the presumption of innocence, whether we believe that all of this will prove some time in the future results of unholy conspiracy and macaques, or rush to condemn people and squeeze out suspicions, does not change the bitter truth that the Acoustic Opposition and, in general, the parties that have governed have many of their own internal problems, which have nothing to do with the real problems of the citizens and therefore do not concern the citizens at all. Ladies and gentlemen, we have closed three years of governing SYRIZA - ANEL and the strongest political argument that the Civic Opposition has to present at the moment to prevent the government from continuing its policy, whatever its policy, is the fact that the co-governments disagree with each other and that this disagreement does not allow them to govern effectively and in the best way Greeks. It is clear from the argument that 'I am not taking a position, until the government brings a single position', on the big problem, the big national issue, on which at least the Union of Centres has taken a position which is not negotiating. So you define your position and attitude not on the basis of your arguments, but on the basis of disagreements between Members of the House. More proof of the claim that there is an opposition deficit I can't think of. If we add this to the attitude of some ministries, some ministers in our questions under parliamentary control, then we realise, unfortunately, that SYRIZA has taken free from Parliament and there is no one to prevent it. No one is talking about how some, even some, even part, should change, even to some extent, even one of the three hundred implementing and executive laws that have been passed here, in this Chamber, in the House of the Greek Parliament, after all, clarifying what you have all voted on together in August 2015. All together, SYRIZA, ANEL, New Democracy, Democratic Reconciliation, Potami, all of you voted together and none of you intend to change anything. This is the truth that is covered by the news, that is the truth that you cover up by the Greek people, and that is my comment on it. All you are saying now is that you, when you are finally summoned by the Greek people to rule the country, will not have the problems of disharmony that SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence has. We have not, however, heard your clear position on the scaffolding, nor have we seen how you will finally reduce this taxation, nor have we understood how HPAI will be reduced, how investment will come, how we will finally gain the unfaithful confidence of the investors, which in today's government - to be honest - is also nonexistent. We have not, of course, seen you effectively control the government, which is still undisturbed to speak of a net exit from the memoranda, when we all know that this is not possible. Perhaps we should ask ourselves not how clear our exit from the memoranda will be, but what situation we will be on our way out. Clean, maybe we'll go out if the odds are too small. But for sure, we've got half left. I am now going to comment on the ministerial amendments. I shall begin with Amendment No 1467, Mr Minister, which deals with the establishment of centres of stray animals in forestry and grassland. Some ambiguities that existed inside, were the reason to withdraw and you did well to withdraw it. It is true that love for animals, apart from shields for them, is also exploited. These phenomena must be treated in a strict and absolute manner. Whether the functioning of the refuges, how they are to be put in place and where we are going to shape them, will ultimately reduce the scope for action of some inhumane scientists who are treasured by taking advantage of the shortcomings of the legislation by abused stray animals, it will appear. We will therefore wait for the amendment to be retabled, which will now be clear. With regard to Amendment No 1466 on the conditions and procedure for granting legal permits to existing mountain shelters, the truth is that we should once have entered a class on this subject. The Centro Association will vote for it. As far as Amendment No 1468 on forest maps is concerned, we shall support it, Mr Minister, as we have done before, because we are also striving for this country to finally acquire this development tool that we so much need. On Amendment No 1470 by the Ministry of Migration Policy, we have some questions. Unfortunately, the Minister didn't come for us to be able to solve them. What kind of system technical problem is that? How did it come up? Who's responsible? What are the actions of the Ministry, besides asking us to authorize another extension so that it does not happen again? Until when will we legislate like this, ladies and gentlemen? It is a stable situation, a central political attitude of the government, to legislate on problems in the future. But that's how we did the bonds. This is how the Greek governments have been doing thirty years now. We were lending and letting others find solutions to the problems created by our own policy, our own decisions. We will need further clarification from the relevant Minister and we will not vote in favour of this amendment. Finally, we will also vote for Amendment No 1471 of the Ministry of the Environment, amending Nos 4014/2011, in order to achieve the transposition into our legislation of Articles 2 and 3 of European Directive 52/2014. Ladies and gentlemen, before I come out of Step I would like to say a few words about the substance of the bill. My introduction to the party was to vote in favour of this bill. It was not accepted for the reasons stated by our rapporteur and for the ambiguities he had in it and for whether and whether or not certain things described in the bill can be implemented. So we ended up as a parliamentary group in the'substances'. This does not, however, change the fact that we recognise that this is a bill that respects and protects the environment, and it solves many problems arising from the tolerance to the infrastability sought by the post-government governments for decades. Those who want to keep hiding behind their fingers can do it. However, those who want to find solutions can only recognise that this is being attempted for the first time in an organised way in our country, as is today's bill, among others. We have great differences, ladies and gentlemen, great discrepancies from the philosophy of the government, from the way it governs, which faces national and social problems. In no case, however, will we include zero in our argument. We have the most responsible attitude, and we will never negotiate it for our party or parliamentary future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u327	Mr. Sevastakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Mr President. It is not very popular, it seems, the bill or the environmentally problematic one. I am impressed by one of the most powerful development legislations not to have a wider comment than colleagues. It is not a fetish, perhaps, or in any case very often entangled in rhetorical warfare or entangled or captured by many political forces in compliance with trade unions or pressure groups. I mean that nature is perceived by a model of development either as an obstacle - we have seen it very often, especially when we have a rhetoric of privatisation from the Realism - or as a museum. In other words, it must either be inactivated in one version or on the other. A development related to the harmonious integration of the natural reserve has not been fully proposed. This is the first time that a government has been trying in a multi-level way to organise a growth model that will include natural stock as an organic element, i.e. a development event. This multi-level conception of development, which is a built-in environment, which is a link between NATURA areas, which is an unstructured environment in a continuous, requires new organisational tools, new management tools, which are pending and the government must deal with them. For example, connect the services much more densely so that we do not have great delays either in adopting or preventing projects and actions. We have seen it very often in a service to 'pool' an envelope. I find it, for example, in the case of the SWEDEN Marathokampou Samos, which, for a long time - and under the responsibility of previous government - has been 'pooling', inactivates or is at the forefront of a commentary in its examination. The services must be able to communicate with each other on the built-up environment, on the productive environment, on rural areas and on the environment under the NATURA system. I say this as an element of criticism or of a dynamic that can gain our administrative system that can really be improved and still pending. This bill, I think, is generally accepted, beyond the political disputes that have pre-existing, as a legislature, as a core regulatory body, the assent of all political wings. It is in a positive direction, without the dogmas of previous legislation. Let us now see the water policy. Does the Ministry's 'problem', the general water policy and the policy of non-extensive and non-intensive agriculture, fall within the scope of the Ministry's 'problem'? It was implied by Mr Kasapidis on the specific quality and documentation to be produced in the vicinity of NATURA. So, does non-intensive cultivation relate to the environmental policy and environmental culture that this legislation is proposing as well? It is the policy of documenting both products and the architected whole, especially in small communities, which in an amazing way our popular architecture is founding ecologically and foundingly dependent on the concept of "NATURA", with the philosophy of "NATURA". These parameters, therefore, while being a cultural reserve to a large extent, I think they can be incorporated into a development plan, undisturbed and multi-level. Are they a case-law and a petition for the Ministry? I have the impression that all legislative initiatives taken by this government in this sort of holistic concept are assimilating him. I think that in this philosophy we can bolder work on the administrative side as well, the administrative modernisations I have described for the interconnection of management systems, services, forestry services, town planning, management bodies, landlocked, archaeological service, self-government. All these structures must communicate in a much more dense way. This is unfinished and it is very important. Maybe he's getting away from the limits of the law. Let me close with this: As everyone has identified their areas, Samos, Ikaria and the Forens have essentially a wide network of NATURA, but I will insist that they also have a wider inland area from the localized areas of NATURA, which has excellent architecture and words and folklore and also has an architecture of cultivation. It has scales, identified as cultural idiosyncrasies in our country, it has small productions thereof, so it has a distinct product and a distinct relationship to this distinct product. Distinguished communities of people who cultivate, trade, export and propose as models of culture. With these considerations, I would like to suggest, Mr Ministers, that we look more boldly and in cooperation with the other ministries, this great administrative transformation, which can mean much more about your legislative initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u329	We're continuing with Mr. Palle from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope today is a good excuse for the absent, although I think that others are the reasons and I shall refer to the way forward. So I have to be brief. This law seeks the institutional framework of the protected areas, an obligation of the country that we had and should have complied with since 2012. I must therefore give my credit to the Ministry of the Environment for its systematic efforts and not only to this piece of legislation, firstly by defining the list of protected areas and the inclusion of new areas, in particular areas and in the Lesbos Prefecture, followed by Mr Sevastakis, where the extent of the maritime areas is high and we are well placed to do so with management bodies, with the expected specific environmental studies, with the management and development plans or with the following presidential decrees, to be able to have an integrated framework. As a Member of the Lesbos Prefect, I would therefore like to stress the establishment of the new agency of the twenty-nine protected areas of the northern Aegean - the colleague mentioned earlier - and the possibility of introducing annexes, given the islands, the islands of the region and the particular needs of our region. The excellent colleague, Mr Thraniotis, also referred to Lesvos. Lesvos is a recognized farmland of UNESCO. The Lesvos Prefecture also belongs to Lemnos, this primitive place and Ai-Stratis with his well-known history, Ai-Stratis, who will be one of the green islands with a serious effort that has taken place in recent years and which our government has restarted after a number of years of obstruction. But let us also say some truths that we have to mention. There's an ideological conflict here. Our colleagues have been running for so many years - and my colleague has referred to what you have been doing for three years - but for three years we have been trying to collect what you have not done for decades consciously. We restore the customer system, and that is what frightens you, because both this bill and the forest maps, with the Land register and with a series of legislation, unreturned, our country becomes a normal country. They may no longer go ahead with projects, politicians commit not to such plans, seeing citizens as customers and creating this relationship of dependence, which we know very well over the years - to move things forward, had to go through the political offices. I want to make a reference to my place and the design that has been made in my place. As far as Kallonis Gulf is concerned, he is being ripped away for so many years at risk of the destruction of this particular people, with specific "platforms". Are we going to save such an environment, such a wealth? At the same time, all these years were planning on my place - it was also mentioned by the Deputy Minister for the Water Management Plans - major projects, the projects that were in the programme at that time, study reviews, based on arguments without any basis, such as building a major dam without environmental impact management plans for the Gulf of Calloli, without a water resource management plan. What's the government doing with that? He's putting things in a row. It sees the real needs and real interventions to be made. Projects in this direction go beyond the legislation, projects to identify network losses, to highlight the real need and the right way to manage the whole environment, natural and structured. Mr Sevastakis is right, especially for the islands of the eastern Aegean. So, from now on, all this wealth must go to a management body, at this stage when the country is on the way forward with a view toward it. We need to get away from what they have done for so many years, the degradation and systematic exploitation of every place's wealth and clientele. I want to make a proposal here, Minister. All these years through a number of financial programmes, European programmes, various bodies, local and wider, they have conducted studies on the objects of the management bodies' work. I believe that all these bodies so far that they have made such programmes have the obligation and must hand over the results of their work - and I speak from the paths to the most important projects - to deliver them because they are paid by each Greek citizen, as is the case with every European citizen. It is unacceptable that you cannot find paid jobs and studies from previous governments. I will end by saying this: almost 20 years after the first specific environmental studies for these areas are being prepared, a realistic system of protection is finally being developed with the managers. Most importantly, from protection gradually, we are making use of the areas, especially in island Greece. The protected areas are many and we can take advantage of them in every way. Fortunately for us, unfortunately for those who have been ruling for so many years, this is their shame. Half of them do not come because they do not want this bill and the other half, the most serious - I would say - come - come not because they are ashamed of what they have not done so many years and of what they cannot support. Fortunately, for us, there are the social forces that will support this philosophy and the northern Aegean, which have been shattered over all these decades, this government has decided to support it as well because of the special circumstances there. These social forces expect how and how such bills, so that we can make use of public property, municipal property, people of labor who want to introduce Greece of the future. Lesvos, ladies and gentlemen, on its edge, had a double population. Your policies have brought it to half the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u331	Mr. Chogas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill unviolently, there is the understanding that the way of administration, protection and management of the environment form an emblematic part of the political and social philosophy of the Left. The special political courage of the New Democracy to make unreliable and unfaithful criticism even in this presumption of excellent bill, exposes you irreparablely. The draft law therefore attempts to strengthen the legal framework surrounding the institutional functioning of the management bodies of protected areas, with a view to protecting national and natural capital and maintaining biodiversity in terms of sustainable development and strengthening of the local product. It is sad, seventeen years after the start of implementing the institution of the management bodies of protected areas, that there are still areas without any institutional framework at all. I would remind you that with Law 4109/2013, the Samara - Venizelos government chose to shrink their agencies, their actions and their workers. The incomplete policies of the previous governments on nature and biodiversity have led to the imposition of fines of many millions from the European Union for our country, as the reduced staffing of operators with only seasonal staff has led to poor performance of their work. This draft law regulates the management of all NATURA 2000 regions, as well as the organisation and operation of existing and new management bodies. It is planned to restructure the map of protected areas, including the establishment of eight new management bodies and the extension of almost all of the twenty-eight existing, except for three, and now covered all of the NATURA network areas, i.e. four hundred nineteen regions, as well as currently no more than sixteen, or less than 30%. Article 4 sets out in detail and clearly set out the responsibilities of management bodies, which are to maintain biodiversity against the natural resources associated with it, the implementation and monitoring of management plans for sustainable management and protection of the natural capital of the NATURA 2000 network, as well as their supervision and, finally, the taking-up of actions and the use of financial resources for local development in protected areas. It is also important to regulate Article 7 concerning workers in management bodies that, in order to achieve institutional shielding of the NATURA 2000 network and the protection of the natural environment, it is laid down that contractors of management bodies will continue to work with an extension of their eight-month contracts until the opening of the AACC tenders, with a view to an invitation to tender for the opening of these permanent staff posts and to ensure that staff are compelled from the permanent fixed-term contracts. As regards the resources of the management bodies referred to in Article 8 of the bill, these are provided for in the regular budget of the Ministry of Environment and Energy. These are grants and financing provided from the regular budget of the Ministry of Environment and Energy and from the Public Investment Programme, grants and financing that may be provided from the budget of other Ministries, from the Green Fund, from local authorities, from public and public sector bodies and businesses, from funds and other programmes of the European Union and international organisations. Revenues from activities in accordance with their purpose, including revenue from intellectual products producing or operating tickets, tours of groups of visitors and other eco-tourism activities, as detailed in the above provision, shall also be provided. Also, with this bill, the problem of the medieval phenomenon, which particularly affects the Corinthian Gulf and related to the Corinthian Law, is afflicting the citizens of the county, professionals, visitors, with a direct impact on the local economy, a large part of which lives from tourism. We hope to reduce the impact due to the phenomenon and return to normality. The provision of Article 19 stipulates that, upon authorisation by the competent port authority, the competent authorities of ports or any person to whom a seaport or port area is granted or leased will be able to place protective networks for the timely use of five months in order to protect the watercourses in maritime areas, including those in the NATURA network - which was not in the existing legal framework - without prejudice to the more specific provisions of the legislation on protected areas. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that the protection of the environment is at the heart of our visa policy, we have introduced the environmental end to the plastic bag, whose unreasonable use contributes to increasing the production of solid waste and constitutes a deadly threat to marine ecosystems, we have voted to ratify forest maps. In December, a joint ministerial decision was adopted to revise the national list of regions of the European Eco-labelling Network "NATURA 2000", while extending the protected areas and establishing new management bodies demarcating another proof that our Government is turning its eye on the environment, investing in its prevention and protection. Our basic concept and unbelievable strategic goal is to awaken the environmental and ecological awareness of our society, to protect and maintain biodiversity, to manage sustainable natural resources, to develop sustainable tourism and to ensure a healthy ecosystem, to identify cultural elements. Protected areas can play a major role in the country's economy, lay the foundations for boosting the local economy by creating jobs, and can be multi-purpose depending on the conditions under which they will operate. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to overcome your conservative predisposition and to vote for a progressive and environmentally worthwhile bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u333	Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Shahinides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr President. Before I refer to the draft law, amendments or current political developments, I consider it appropriate to refer to some of the previous speakers, who wanting to make some speeches - Members, Parliamentary parties - have again considered it appropriate to refer to something said by the chairman of the Golden Dawn. Obviously, they have not understood that the only ones who are harming societies are left-wing policies. In fact, I would like one in this Chamber to be found and to tell me which country with a left-wing government was something good. I'd like you to convince us, anyway, about your policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u335	All of them!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u336	Yes, we saw them: Romania, Bulgaria, Poland. The list isn't over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u337	Which fascist country did we have a good thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u338	Don't interrupt, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u339	We also heard from a parliamentary representative that the Left has exclusive competence in matters of democracy and in calling itself democratic forces. Indeed, in this Chamber, we have repeatedly told you that your democracy has too narrow limits. Prove to us that you are indeed democrats and you will then see it. As far as the draft law and amendment are concerned, with a general number of 1468 and a number of 175, there is a set of matters relating to forest maps. The Hellenic Register allows access to the paper backgrounds used for forest maps in the relevant OTA services in order to capture the boundaries and contours of the defined areas up to 15 May 2018. Where the procedure for the suspension of forest maps started on 30 October 2017 and in the case of forest maps being drawn up and updated, the deadline for submitting objections to forest maps shall be extended until 30 May if it expires from 26 February to 22 May. One of the reasons why this extension is given is that the municipalities did not respond to the obligation to delimit the settlements and the settlements in order to ensure the right to object to citizens. Golden Dawn states 'the present' in this amendment. Amendment No 1470, with a specific number of 177, provides for the possibility of renewal until 30 June 2018 of residence permits for citizens of third countries under specific conditions. By the proposal, citizens of third countries whose residence permits expire on 18 January 2018 until 28 February 2018 shall be considered as legally resident exclusively within the Greek territory and may be renewed until 30 June 2018. The report talks about the years of subscribing the Immigration and Immigration Departments and that this is the reason for the delay in order to deal with renewal requests. It is also stated that due to the number of applications submitted for exceptional reasons it was found that the services are unable to serve. Here I would add that in an interview given by the Minister of Immigration Muzalas on 20 August last year, the flows have doubled. So it makes sense that they cannot be served. So these excellent reasons are known. It would therefore be advisable to consider all requests for renewal from the outset and to attach particular importance to the legality of entry into the Greek territory and then to talk about their service and to safeguard their rights. With regard to the current political topicality, two are the issues that agitate Greeks in the last few days. One is the so-called'skopje' and one is the scandal, which emerged a few days ago about the pharmaceutical industry 'NOVARTIS'. Here, because of our exclusion, I consider it appropriate for the Greek people to learn the statement of the Chief of Golden Dawn. Of course, it was no coincidence that just one day after the grand rally of the Syntagma Square, which tried to degrade in every way both liberals and Marxists - ethnicists, a great public corruption scandal came to the surface. The guilty must pay and go to jail. The Golden Dawn has no objection to that. But let the neo-bolshevik propagandas and censors know that with a pre-interrogative for the NOVARTIS scandal the betrayal of Gorna Macedonija is not eradicated. So in the echo of the rally, we do not know whether the government and the other parties have received the message of these rallyings. Once again, as a miracle, the Golden Dawn was invisible to all channels and to all journalists. But here, there has been a statement in relation to what you are struggling to bring and dominate. It was Zaev's statement that nothing changes in the Skopje Constitution and that what was to be done with the Skopje Constitution was done in 1993, incorporating Article 2 into paragraph 49. And you're talking about a solution to the scorpion. Solution to what? We have heard too much both here in plenary and from the channels. However, no one has told us what the problem Greece is facing in the event of the skepticism being resolved. We have heard too many arguments from previous speakers about how well the Macedonian economy is doing thanks to the Greeks. But we have not heard from anyone what Greece has to lose if this problem is not solved. If the name of Macedonia is to be granted, don't ever save and solve! We did not, however, hear of the Turkish dormant patrolling around the Imia. Really, Minister, as a Member of this Parliament, if I go to a speedboat, do I have the right to ride on the rocky islands of the Imian islands or will the Turks arrest me? Here with your policy, you managed to host your partner, Panos Kammenos, with the scandal of selling missiles to Saudi Arabia. On the one hand, it is the NOVARTIS scandal, on the other hand, the scop, and you blackmail things and situations. With regard to the NOVARTIS scandal, however, here the damage suffered by the Greek State has been caused by artificial enlargement of the pharmaceutical expenditure for the period 2000-2015 exceeds EUR 23 billion. Expenditure - and there are lists for them - since 1987 on medicines was EUR 200 million and amounted to EUR 10 billion in 2010. It is therefore a loss equal to the painful package of measures in the second memorandum of 2012-2015, which was EUR 26 billion. So the damage of the EUR 23 billion suffered by the Greek State, the 3 billion concern this company and thirty interested political persons, of whom two Prime Ministers, at least, of what have been leaked, eight ministers, state officials, such as government officials, general secretaries, members of pharmaceutical invoicing committees, consultants. Everyone took gifts to serve the interests of the alleged company. According to the reports again in newspapers and online, the witnesses are alleged to have reported: Finance of civilians with about 40m euros, a great deal of food by naturally invoking the company's medicines. Here there was a rapid adoption of this company in relation to other companies, which took their own medicines to get into the market, unlike the medicines of other companies that were late to obtain this authorisation. Faster compensation of this company from the insurance funds, compared to other companies to which the insurance funds were due. The drugs alleged to be overpriced were mainly oncology and ophthalmological. We all know very much here that the most expensive drugs are oncology. Therefore, with this information, the prosecutors of corruption crimes already have findings of the existence of the accounts for which they request information through requests for legal assistance. The control of two offshore companies, which are directly related to the "NOVARTIS" scandal, has also been mentioned. We also had an interview with the criminal Sarakis, who represents the three protected witnesses, and he said he was afraid of his life. He even mentioned that there are sound and photographic documentaries on the NOVARTIS scandal. But let's see what the statements of this story's coconut fighters were. What did the Prime Minister tell us in his speech at Patras? He told us that there can be no patriotism with lists, that there can be no patriotism and offshore and that there can be no patriotism and complication. We're totally in agreement. And we totally agree on why? Because the only ones we have the right to define ourselves as genuine patriots are us of Golden Dawn, because, Minister, we are neither involved in the complexion nor in the lists. But since we have referred to lists, let us tell you, your co-government, about the abduction of sins you gave to the lists. With what you voted on, you did not have five-year-old cases to be checked, you gave practical immunity to 80% of the cases that were on these lists. Also, here, Minister, I would like a commitment from you, a statement from you, if possible, about what the Prime Minister's Press Office has said. At some point, Mr Minister, he comments and says: "The principle that everyone is innocent until proven guilty always applies to Greece". Do you adopt this, Minister? Do you agree? If you agree, do the thing in answer to us. Until the end of the day, we're innocent, Minister. I would add that in Greece you are innocent until proven guilty, as long as you are not a nationalist. What fundamental principle of innocence are you talking about? Tell this to your ministers, Mr. Polakis, to your MPs, to your executives and above all to look in the mirror. What did New Democracy mention? The only sure scandal, says the New Democracy, which has so far emerged, is the government's obscure involvement in the ongoing investigation of justice and the flagrant violation of its separation of powers. Seriously, you falsified right-wing niggers? Do you dare and talk, the chiefs of intercom, and there's no one in the Chamber right now? Do you dare and catch in your mouths the distinction of powers? Again, Venizelos, the instigator of the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers and the Law on Protected Witnesses! He says he is furious for the protected witnesses of the NOVARTIS case. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. But Mr. Mitsotakis is one of them. He said justice couldn't wear hoods. Why, Mr. Mitsotakis? Are there a few of those three with the hoods? If we did five of them - I say now - would they be more reliable? Did you and your party not put your seal and your signature on 30 March 2014 together with most of the politicians involved who have heard their names on the NOVARTIS scandal - and did you very well - to extend the institution of witness protection to a case of corruption and in the public interest? Are the New Democracy gentlemen getting their signature back? In conclusion, I would like to say that yesterday in most regional channels reference was made to the 'NOVARTIS' scandal in the Baltaku video, the Samara audio document with the 'Panathenaikis' and the breaking of the home of the competitor Yiannis Lagos from the counterterrorism, apparently wanting to highlight the democratic processes followed by the New Democracy, which is now protesting about the practices of today's coexistence. So on one of these regional channels, a spokesman again in the New Democracy, he asked at some point that the guarded witnesses should come to testify properly and not as protectors, to know - it says - who are accused of slandering them. They still didn't do it, and they've decided they're slanderers! In fact, he had the nerve at some point to compare the protected false witnesses of the Golden Dawn with those of the "NOVARTIS" scandal. What, though, did the protected false witnesses say in our trial? In fact, some of them have also stated former members that they should be absolutely certain of what they had said. They said that the Thermopylae is in Sparta and that our event at the Thermopylae takes place in winter. What are the protected witnesses of the NOVARTIS scandal saying? They say that according to the papers, for which I certainly am not competent, and I don't adopt them, Samsonite black suitcase with five hundred euros went into Maximos and grabbed the Samaras. And for Adonod's particularity, they say he was getting seventy-mile envelopes at the "LEDRA MARRIOTT". But because we are not like their faces and we are not vengeful, we will not ask for your governance, nor reduce them, nor finish them, nor disappear them. Because we're not like their faces, we're not gonna ask without immunity in a live connection with all the media to cross them and confiscate them. Because we are not like their faces, we will not call for the funds of all the parties involved to be cut off and for the parties to be held up until the investigations, pre-inquiry and trial are completed. Finally, because we are not like their faces, we are asking, if they are really clean, for all of them to seek their immunity, as we of the Golden Dawn do, to see if they are actually involved or not. The Greek people are asking for clearance, and the only way to do this, behold the opportunity, Minister, to testify to change the law on the responsibility of Ministers and to change what has to do with violations of laws by politicians, that there is no limitation or parking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u340	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-eight students and students and four teachers from the Gymnasium - and lyric classes - Volissos, as well as the Kardamolou High School of Chios, which is hosted in Athens under an educational programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Caracosta has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u341	I would also like to welcome the few and few Members who are present at the moment. I would also like to welcome all those who are listening to Parliament's channel, because it is those citizens who want to have the immediate information on every issue and not to expect from the other channels and interpretations of journalists' possible vote on what this Parliament is voting on. I would also like to make a comment on the current procedure. The list of speakers was twenty-seven members, seven of which belonged to the other parties and all others to SYRIZA. There are multiple interpretations. An interpretation is the depreciation of the bill. Another interpretation is that we really don't know why we deceive this bill. There are, of course, many colleagues from different parties who will vote in favour of this bill. But I sincerely have to say that I take note of what Mr Screkas said, as a parliamentary representative, today, in this plenary session, who had to talk about HSH, about biological cleansing, anything other than this bill. He complained, for example, that we are the longest-lived government and, indeed, it seemed very strange to him because this is because it is happening, and we also devalue the work they have done so far on the relevant issues. We need to discuss this here, because these management bodies really exist since 2000. These bodies are legal entities of private law which, of course, are supervised by the Ministry of Environment and Energy and their activities are public and non-profit-making and their responsibilities are as follows: The implementation of the management plans for nature protection, the areas of the NATURA 2000 network, the collection and processing of environmental data transmitted to the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the provision of opinions in the authorisation process for projects falling within these protected areas, the organisation and participation in training programmes for the development of the protected areas, the management of public land, and the purchase or hire of private land located in their area of responsibility, the approval of tour activities, consultation with local society and productive bodies integrating the environmental parameter in local development and decision-making, support for eco-tourism activities in cooperation with other competent bodies. From what I read, I would really like to see from 2000 to 2017 - and I am ending there, because in 2018 it has just begun - what goals have been achieved by them, except for the approval of tour activities and this to some extent. If we take consultation with local communities, is there really such consultation? Did we mobilise, for example, the inhabitants of the small settlements to join together to draw the paths? Did we give them the understanding that the environment is a major factor in economic development? Did we do that? We didn't do it, why didn't we? We didn't, why couldn't we? Really, it's seventeen years. What have we done in this direction? It is also supportive of ecotourism activities in cooperation with other bodies. How much have we supported these issues, so that people can understand that it can also have an economic interest, beyond the environmental, to combine these two, to evaluate them and to get into this process? We therefore know that, since these agencies were set up in 2000, they have been registered beyond the many problems of implementing this environmental legislation and also pose the threat of tens of millions of fines. Honestly, is it not dissatisfied with the courage of the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy to refer to these fines without knowing that their own governments have created them? Let's move on, then. What was defined in institutions? They had arranged only 27% of the management bodies in these areas, NATURA 2000. And what do we do now? We're coming in and joining 99.8%. What do we leave outside? Only the peninsula of Athos determined differently from the Constitution. So we come and do smaller and efficient instruments. These have been said many times, but it matters, because sometimes the repetition is a mother of learning. And here we repeat them, so people can hear them and see what we're going to do. We are therefore creating instruments which are smaller and more efficient, seven-member administrations, but - look out! - with four local representatives, representatives who love their place, who understand what needs to be done, who need to understand how much economic interest there is, how much growth there is in this process. In addition, unpaid advisory committees are set up to assist this work. Still, the work continues. Be careful, because we were accused here of the workers. And what do we do? We're prolonging their contract. And, of course, since 2018, to come in 2019, we have been doing SAPA procedures. It is of great importance that the criteria for the recruitment of these people should be taken into account. We're also giving money from the state budget. And, of course, these important - I mentioned before - information centres for the awareness of visitors in the protection and management of the environment and their participation in actions relating to protected objects. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, if you want, still. We also need to understand that this whole bill is a piece in the puzzle of the bills that we have been through so far and that we are still going to pass in order to manage the land. That is why, for example, we passed the bill for pastures on forest maps. Now we're going to pass a bill for the saints. We pass this bill, we pass bills for cooperative procedures. All of these are pieces of the same puzzle: How we will manage this land called "Greece", this land called "Greece" we love, we promote and we highlight it. In this direction, therefore, I have to supplement that things are being corrected and that there are no arbitrages. We open up actions within the NATURA area with control, because we really cannot do, for example, a ski centre in the center of Athens, but on the mountain, in the NATURA area we will do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u342	Mrs. Carachosta, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u343	You didn't stop the last one. Anyway. In this sense I have to say that we will continue as a government, we will manage our land in the best possible way, so that it is also economically efficient, but also environmentally controlled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u344	The next speaker is Mrs Gara from SYRIZA. And I must clarify to Mrs Karakosta that the previous speaker was a parliamentary representative and all, like all the parliamentary representatives, is entitled, twenty-one minutes. So I return your reproach. And you should know well before you say what you said...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u345	Time is time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u346	And the parliamentary representative is entitled to some specific time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u347	Time is time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u348	Please! Seven minutes were right. Several of your colleagues have respected the seven minute and you are now reluctant to give more than a twelfth of the twelfth to a parliamentary representative, who is entitled to twenty-one minutes along with dentistry and tritology. It's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u349	Fourteen minutes at 12.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u350	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u351	Don't complain! You gave the golden man two more minutes to talk. You are inadmissible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u352	Please. Here, Mrs. Gara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr President. World history has proved and taught us that fascism and patriotism are unconnected and never went together. I say so that the words don't lose their meaning in here. From that point on, there is a lot of talk of news. Indeed, the news is very interesting and often it is more morbid even than the imagination of the poets. "Ladies and ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you are destroying the country, selling everything out and at the same time privatising everything. You intervene in justice, set up crafts, sculpt, rampant consciences of historical political persons, set up doubles of new - old, moral - non-ethical, interesting - indifference". No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. These, however, are some of the crowns of New Democracy and its arguments. I understand they have to justify unjustified. I understand that they must justify their years of anti-population policy. But I invite them to answer a question, one single question: has there been a 30-year conflict and corruption in our country? Politicians from their own parties have taken and covered messes or not? Did they charge the Greek people to fill their pockets? Do we have to collectively deal with corruption and involvement in this country and return a page? These are the questions that concern society, not the excuses or threats in all directions. In the end, is it a matter of morality and honesty to the people? And I move on to this draft law on the management of protected areas, which is extremely topical, a bill which is being discussed in a context of change in the country, structures, logic, culture, change of procedures, and a framework for exploiting all available resources and resources to strengthen local development and the local economy, in a context of progress. Despite the struggling efforts of the New Democracy to convince us that they have shown the necessary interest in protecting and exploiting the environment, the reality unfortunately disproves them. It was never on your priorities. You never treated it as a field of development, as a field of work. For you it only worked as a ban, as a brake on unregulated and uncomplicated investment. It has, of course, also acted as a means of enrichment for political and service actors or as a means of exercising local and client power. For all these reasons, therefore, you have not promoted policies to create a structured environment. The Register, the suspension of forest maps, land uses throughout the territory, and the coordinate and developmental intervention in the NATURA areas did not proceed. This draft law, therefore, sets the environment for the protected areas in a specific framework of operation, supervision and action, boosting the development of these areas. One of the most important points of the bill, as most of them have been mentioned, is the expansion of supervision of protected areas, the framework and the process of action of management bodies, the targeting and control of operators in implementation plans, the strengthening of local development - particularly important - in protected areas, the emergence of local products, the involvement of local society in planning through consultation processes, the creation of new jobs, the provision of funding for the first time from the State budget of 10 million a year. Let us remember, of course, that the previous governments, which had a very high environment on their agenda, had never predicted a single euro for management bodies, while workers were under fixed-term contracts with continuous extensions, and those that depended on co-financed programmes and, above all, on the NRP. The best of all, and it is by law that the previous government had voted to dismantle the agencies and dismiss all workers. And now, this party, these representatives are calling on us to create permanent jobs, which we are doing. What a humiliation, what a hypocrisy in the Chamber of Plenary Assembly of the Greek Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to take some time in the area I represent. Evros consists of about 70% of protected areas "NATURA" and Ramsar, an area of rare biodiversity, unique and incredible beauty, unique and special features that you do not meet elsewhere in the world. A region, however, untapped, unfortunately affected by indifference over years and lack of planning, mainly by lack of political initiatives. The NATURA regime for us only created prohibitions and removals from the regions. This bill, however, provides for the integration of the headless protected areas into the supervision of operators. Entities IV of Evros and Samothrakis now have territorial competence in seven areas of the network, with enlargement to the southern forest complex, in the maritime area of Thrace and Samothraki. Samothraki is an island of 93% NATURA which has not joined anywhere until now. Secondly, the National Park Agency of Dadia - Lefkimi - Soufliou, which operates seven areas of the network, finally covering the rivers of Evros, Arda and Evropotamos and the forest ecosystems of north and central Evros. I repeat that most regions, which were out of supervision, have innumerable opportunities to exploit mildly in tourism, rural, ecotouristic, cultural and above all productive sectors. I am, therefore, particularly optimistic about the proposed arrangements for the development and development of these regions, as the competences, procedures, the responsible supervised bodies and, above all, the obligation to implement a plan of actions to highlight our comparative advantages. Finally, I would like to highlight two vital points for us. The catastrophic floods of September in Samothraki highlighted major structural and chronic problems. To deal with problems and to shield the island the Ministry of the Environment has announced concrete measures and initiatives. The commitment of EUR 90,000 to create forest trails on the island was the first step. Articles 14 and 15 of this draft law are the immediate implementation of part of the Ministry's commitments. In particular, the legalisation of the Samothraki camp, in compliance with the terms of forest law, is being legislated, a legislative initiative that makes a way out of a problem that has been stumbling us for years, opening up prospects for tourism development and the promotion of the whole Samothraki area with parallel development actions. In addition, there is a way out of the implementation of the necessary water supply and irrigation infrastructure on the island. As a representative and a fan of this island, you will allow me to convey our thanks for the immediate interest you have shown in solving chronic problems and I hope that this attitude and work will continue for the other serious issues on the island. In conclusion, I would just like to stress that the use of the unique potential that the environment gives to local development, employment, work and the overall development of the local economy in this draft law is in practice apparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u354	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-nine students and students and three educational attendances from the Drama Music Gymnasium (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Lebanese has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, topical and urgent debate is beyond me. That's why I'm staying in today's bill, which makes me feel like a better man and a more useful one in society. It is clear that in our country for decades there have been distortions, pathogens, mistaken perceptions, erroneous view of each other's rights towards the whole, flexible uptake of the concept of public interest. The way in which the management bodies of protected areas - where they exist - and the results they have produced - are indicative of the culture of the old party system, which regulates self-evidently in a way that would all be relevant. The institutions of the country - where they existed - were discredited, despite the efforts of their members to intervene, to inform, to protect their areas of responsibility. Involved in the maze of bureaucracy without the mitto of Ariadne, but with a Gordian bond to direct them to a dead end. Environmentally sensitive citizens have often found that in Greece yesterday everything was relatively important. Evia is a typical example of how, as this European country developed in the words of the country, an island remnant of the elastic rules that one permanently found a way to circumvent, arbitrary, intent, exploit people, public spaces and public property. Today, the Ministry of the Environment recommends management bodies of protected areas, setting up for the first time an agency for Evia, an island full of wetlands and areas that need state protection. From Lichada, Lihadonisia, Central Evia, its mountains, to Karysia, sixteen points are in the management body. This is the first step by creating a body for the island, including many important areas. You'll have to find out. There are others who must at last be protected and put in place a series of priorities, self-consciousness, clearly demarcate the boundaries of each region so that it does not fall within the discretion of some of them. We all realise that the country is at a critical turning point. He is intensively preparing to return gradually to normality, outside of committees and memoranda. We must now lay down the rules of the new era. We must shape the framework of a normal country, a fair country with rules that everyone will know and no one will be able to violate. The self-evident, unfortunately, is not easy. When decades of broad interpretation and trespass do not make it impossible to realize that you can have growth, jobs and social justice without infringing the rules. It is not possible, for example, to recognise the existence of a wetland in an area and to allow the development of industries in the same region, without prejudice to the effects on the environment. You cannot continuously prolong the operation of arbitrary constructions on the pretext of job losses, when companies themselves can legally operate in adjacent areas that do not need special protection. You can't bypass your cultural and archaeological heritage in the name of a furniture development. Our wealth is our natural environment, our history, our heritage, people. Through this property we can claim to produce new wealth, we can base growth on more solid bases, exploiting what is there and not destroying them. The development of management bodies on a rational basis, such as the Ministry's proposal, is the first step. The provision for short-term and functional administrative regimes will prove functional on an essential condition: To understand local communities and their representatives to all operators their real interest. By exploiting our natural wealth, we can achieve much more than by ignoring him or making the eyes wrong in the demands of those close to all forms of authority. Finally, we all have to understand - within and outside Parliament - that by taking the responsibility of participating in a public body, paid or unpaid, we cannot decide on the basis of our personal bank accounts and our personal security. The times always have shooting and the truth always comes to light. We must therefore lay down the rules, and we must jointly ensure that they are fully respected by operators, depending on the interests that may be affected. The Ministry of the Environment is reverentially leaning on the issues relating to the protection of our natural wealth, and I hope that it will continue this struggle so that many of the areas that have not been integrated into the institutions will once be integrated. Is it too late to protect nature? No, it's never too late. She was so cute to us, and we had to protect her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u356	Mr. Vettas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u357	Minister, today your name is linked to a very important bill. You have, of course, linked it to other important bills. I think that today there is another obstacle that has led us to the memoranda, apart from the dispersal of public money, beyond the bad behaviour of the political forces in the Greek people. Nowadays, tools are being created. Today another tool is being created that will lead us to a sector of our economy and our society in development. I think we are discussing a bill today, which is clearly our position, our position, our view on the major issue of protecting the natural environment, which is evolving through various frameworks of actions involving international organisations, public services, services of the European Union, businesses, non-governmental organisations and a large number of scientific communities, both biological and economic. With this draft law we seek to better manage the defined and demarcated areas as protected by strengthening the rules and operating parameters of their management bodies, as well as expanding their spatial and material competence, by supporting the need to maintain the natural capital and its sustainable exploitation as a key pillar of a living and stable Greek economy. Obviously, we all know that biodiversity is decreasing. And it is reduced because of many factors, pollution of the environment, water, because of the desertification of the soil, forest destruction, unstable prey and other factors. And today it is understood to everyone that the price will be too hard if we do not take measures now, with serious legislation, to stop reducing biodiversity. We understand, of course, that the introduction and respect for the term of the protected area has become an intrinsic concept of the management of the natural environment and is the strong ally of stabilising the web of functions and services provided by nature as a whole. It is an enlarged category that includes areas characterised as the absolute protection of nature, the protection of nature and national parks, regional parks, wildlife shelter, protected landscapes or protected natural formation, that is to say, all that a citizen sees when it comes to oaks and other natural beauty. According to this draft law, there are the existing twenty-eight entities, as renamed, and eight bodies that are recommended. Let's go to the county of mine, Fthiotis County, where we have two management bodies. My patriots will hear it now, who know it. It is the Managing Body of the Parnassos National Park based in Amphiklia and the Management of the National Opie Dragon, based in the Bathrooms of the High. The Management Body of the National Park of Oitis is responsible for eight global areas of the network, including - beyond the national park and the wider area of Mount Oitis - the term Tymfristos - Velochi, that is - the Gorgetamos gorge, the valley, the estuary of Sperhios, the Malay Gulf and the Sperhios. The Managing Body of the Parnassos National Park, in addition to the area of the park, extends to six overall areas of the network, including - the most known I mean - the Vardousia Mountains and Mount Gonna. For the first time, a management body is established for the whole NATURA 2000 network, where it is responsible for the implementation, monitoring, evaluation and updating of the management plans. For the first time, the management body shall provide a reasoned opinion during the environmental authorisation process of the projects and activities falling within their areas of responsibility or whose impact directly or indirectly affects the protected object. In addition, for projects or activities not subject to the environmental authorisation procedure, the managing body shall deliver an opinion within twenty-fifth days to the competent authorities. And here is the important thing: Environmental licensing of projects and activities that fall within protected areas was an obstacle to development, since, for example, in the Fthiotis Prefecture there were guidelines for many years from draft Presidential Decrees, which had to be observed and the relevant approval was given by the relevant Ministry. The problem was then overcome by the adoption of the specific ecological assessment by the relevant environmental service in the region. However, now, with the bill under discussion, we can talk about specialised and integrated management, since the management body, who now acquires executive powers to protect and manage these areas, will be consulted. I will give some examples: obviously my patriots do not know that until tonight the Sperhios river had no management body. As you hear. Spercheus, this great river in Fhotida, until tonight, Minister, had no management. The people, the political forces, who did not make the forest maps and did not print them, the people who did not create bodies managing our wealth, our natural wealth, the forces that claim to be pro-European, pro-business, are those who blame us, as a non-business minister, for example, when you created and captured forest maps, when you have given a solution to the huge problem of the arbitrary. And now, of course, you are giving a very big solution to the very big problems that concern the managers of our natural wealth. There are examples that the people who visit the prefecture know about. We have a prefecture that has incredibly good, inconceivable beauty, whether it is canyons or rivers, we have a farm tourism that obviously needs to be developed. To give a size, I will say that visitors' costs in the 'NATURA 2000' European ecological network cause direct or indirect economic benefits of 50 to 85 billion per year and support four and a half to eight million full-time jobs. These are data from the European Commission of 2013. Minister, in this country we have created nothing in this area. We've been behind decades. I will give an example of forestry. I think we all know - and I have also served local government - that there are huge problems which are solved by this institutional framework. I will give examples of alternative tourism. But I want to go ahead because my time is running out. I will say this: The results of the actions of 2017 of Parnassos National Park Management Bodies document a sound existing basis for the implementation of the bill, and at the same time, there is also an urgent need to maintain the human resources of the bodies, which are governed by knowledge, experience, training and expertise. In conclusion, I believe that it is clear that this draft law will be a basic basis for exploiting the capital and the potential of the protected areas. I wish you, Minister, to table more such bills and other instruments that will give the world a dream, vision and employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u358	Thank you. Mrs Triantafyllou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Mr President. The first point, since the Chamber is every time when we have a piece of legislation, but not just 'patriotic reasons'. I will say one thing, because I believe that each of us must read and know history and say that history teaches us that fascism is synonymous with betrayal. History teaches us that fascism aims to sprinkle nationalist hatred and division between workers and among the peoples. History teaches us that fascism and those who represent him are nothing but cymbals "salting" and lagging on the enemy side at all times. Always, against every fighter and every race for the homeland. It is a long list of traitors - fascists. And rhetoric is intended to dismantle and nothing else. We all know that and the most important thing is that the Greek people know that. Secondly, we recently held a regional conference in the region of Western Greece - from Ioannina - and it was really revealing to hear - I think it is possible for each of our colleagues to see it - the position of mayors and the district manager and the district councillor, etc. Why am I saying that? Their locations were indeed revealing, because they described the country's situation as arrogant. It is indeed interesting to see the regional councils that are being held, regardless of how they stand against them, to see what mayors, regional directors, who are not SYRIZA, of course, but who have an institutional role and are aware of the problems. There you will see, ladies and gentlemen, that the problems are huge and the problems have been built year after year, stone - stone by you who ruled. Let's go a little bit to the bill. It has been said and it is indeed essential that the country's productive reconstruction and sustainable development go through a different approach to the country's environment and natural wealth. There have been some attempts in the past that have resulted in some legislation. We are talking about NATURA areas, which have been defined in some way, and we should say that. However, it certainly did - but not by accident - it is not because governments could not do so - a holistic, ecological and coherent productive approach to environmental policies. There is a rhetoric that says it is necessary for Europe to impose fines, etc. So we need to be corrected. That's true. But I will say that every time the system dominates is what determines how to develop and produce, so I think we have a lot to say about it. But if we go to this bill, we'll ask ourselves what it takes today, why is there this bill? First of all, a substantial account needs to be taken of the management bodies and of the direction in which they operate. What we want to do with the management bodies. There are some points that need to be stressed on the basis of this bill. With the present draft law, it is therefore established that the main instrument for environmental protection and planning will be the management bodies of protected areas. For many years, we have to say this, the functioning of management bodies has been a little between deterioration and incorporation. In fact, many colleagues have said that the previous government with n.4109/2013 sought to give the definitive blow by merging and abolishing entities, depreciating environmental policy and leaving the protected areas "NATURA" uncovered. In the context of so-called rationalisation, environmental protection and the loss of jobs for dozens of workers in this sector have always been made redundant. Of course, I think the colleague, who was rapporteur from New Democracy, asked if anyone was fired. No, no one was fired. But let me tell you something. I, as I have told you, have a management body and I will say some things about him, I will say that many times these workers were in danger of being fired, because other workers were made redundant, my dear colleague. Of course, I must tell you that this was not precisely because it stopped, frozen, that this was not implemented, to tell the truth. The other point we have to say here is the second point, that the whole NATURA, sea and land areas will be covered by management bodies, either through the extension of competence of the existing ones or through the creation of new management bodies. It is important to say that no longer protected area will be outside the management body. These are two important points. This important development has multiple benefits. Why? Because various policies relating to sustainable development in relation to the natural environment and local society can be developed by synergies between local and central government management bodies. In other words, we have a threefold degree of cooperation and perspective. And so the new powers, as described in the bill, concern the development of projects for the mild development of protected areas and sustainable management, as well as the creation of financial resources from European programmes relating to nature and the environment. This, together with the creation of smaller, flexible and local administrative councils, can make management bodies a lever for the development of local societies. In the Prefecture of Aetolocarnania there is a wonderful ecosystem of the Mesologo-Aitolitan lagoon, you all know it. It is wonderful both for its biodiversity and for its production and even more for its productive perspective. Here we have to say that there is a need for substantial support from its productive bodies. Here I should like to say that the management body of the Mesologic lagoon has proposed a plan. In fact, we had also received a memorandum from the regional conference 'Travel of nature and culture in Itolokarnania'. This is a co-operation of the specific body with movements of active citizens with the Association of Diamomas, which aims to combine the scattered archaeological sites of Aetolokarnania with its five ancient theatres, while exploiting the natural environment on a single route and projecting it to a targeted audience in Greece and abroad, so that the route is a separate cultural and tourist experience. There are many other things I could say. For example, there is the lake Trichoda, also with separate biodiversity and great prospects. There are water systems in Itolocarnania, but also altered mountains. All I can say here is that there are untapped facilities, which have been abandoned, which have to do with Trichoda, the largest lake in Atalo-Carnania, which I think we should see. I conclude by saying this about management bodies and workers. Look, this is where we need to be more specific. Workers are the soul of the institutions. We need to stand next to all those who have devoted most of their lives to the service of proper management of the sensitive natural environment. Listen, however, it is a potential that we want, we need it to help in the case at hand, and it needs to upgrade its role, to be used essentially as a filter to defend environmental sustainability. We are talking too much about productive reconstruction. Production reconstruction, in addition to all others, needs environmental sustainability. And I have to tell you to be careful. It is important that everything we say is at issue. On the one hand we know well and we are not ethers that the one-sidedness of part of science and the growing tendency to swallow raw what is served can lead to affluent perceptions of the environment as well, has also happened for productive reconstruction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u360	Mrs. Triantafel, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u361	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is about whom and how production reconstruction is being carried out, and we must say that what this government has to do today is to try to create this famous method that Aristotle taught us, that is to say, the habit of changing beliefs and obtaining and inspiring new behaviours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u362	Mrs Olympia Tyloridou, who is the last speaker, has the floor. They will follow second-guessments of those of the rapporteurs or of special speakers who wish. Mrs. Tyloridou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u363	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is, in our view, a deep section in the policy of inertia which, for decades, has led to the depreciation of the natural environment, which is the primary element of our national wealth. This depreciation has largely led to the desertification and deterioration of the Greek countryside and the Greek region. Today, with this legislative initiative, we are stressing a different philosophy for environmental policy. This bill is a tool in the hands of society to try to protect the natural environment, make use of its resources in terms of green development and project nature in our country. And it is, if anything, unfair to those who did not want or have not been able to deal seriously with this national chapter to come to us today and to blame us, whether for misery or for delay or for future weakness, for the functioning of management bodies. This bill was made fully responsible and under the supervision of a working party of experts and with the Ministry, which, for months, processed all the information, which NATURA areas will be judged and incorporated, environmental studies and taken into account the comments from the public consultation. Two are the main features of this bill. The management of the management bodies is part of the whole NATURA and, secondly, the funding from the State budget is guaranteed and not from NATURA programmes which have occasionally created various problems. The fragmented management of the protected areas, which in many cases has led to fines being charged by the European Union to our country with this bill, we aspire to stop. A characteristic example of the lack of policy in previous years has been the phantom of the Kastoria lake's Ghost. Postgraduate actions with no design and no perspective. For the record to say that since 1997 the Municipality of Kastoria has attempted to create the conditions for a management body in our city. With money from European programmes, studies have been carried out on the settlement of the events, on the management of the beans, to demarcate the bank. Since 2002 there has been a proposal for a presidential decree and in June 2012 was founded the Kastoria Lake Management Agency on paper. Before it was created, with the n.d.1420/2012, in just a few months, in January 2013, it was abolished by n.4109. Why? Because he had to - he said - to settle the state and not waste money. It was, in the previous government perception, a waste of money for environmental management, and since they could not limit the waste of money elsewhere - and I really do not know whether we should laugh or cry - that was limited by sustainable development. This draft includes Law No 4109/2013 and creates a Management Agency for Protected Areas of Western Macedonia, which covers areas of "NATURA" and mountainous volumes, as well as lakes, based in Kastoria. I believe that this is the restoration of an injustice and the vindication of an area that has wasted money and human resources, which has been working on the establishment of the management body for twenty years. There is now the possibility of a systematic environmental planning, which will apply the rules of development planning, through the synergies of local society. So, here today, we have a hopeful prospect, for the protection of the environment, for the development of ecotourism, for the feeding of work, for the promotion of local products and, ultimately, for the improvement of the quality of our lives. Today this opportunity is given, and I think we should thank the Deputy Minister, Mr Famelos, for indeed recognising the potential of the region and solving this injustice. Despite the economic difficulties that the country has experienced, the government's policy is trying to use the comparative advantage of our country and with the ultimate role of the Ministry to create the conditions for the proper and rational management of the environment. The government's policy ensures that jobs are provided, that operators with permanent, qualified staff and efficient administrative arrangements are permanently staffed. The bill is particularly important because it concerns our relationship with nature and respect for it. Obviously, every human activity leaves its print on the environment. We, however, seek this footprint to be beneficial, not to destroy and to help with sustainable and sustainable development. In order to respond to this mission, we must realise that we owe respect to nature, because this respect is respect for ourselves. It is therefore our duty to have a strategic environmental planning, with local and regional orientation, aimed at sustainable development, which will be the bridge to our country's exit from the crisis with a different model of governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u364	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Elassona High School (First Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The list of speakers was completed, as we said before, and we will proceed to secondary education. Mrs. Igleze, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u365	I would like to refer to the amendment of Article 18 and, in my turn, congratulate the Minister for the strictness of this article so that there is no suspicion that this article was trying to legitimise arbitrary trespasses and arbitrary constructions in areas that are particularly sensitive and environmentally important. I would also like to say about the amendments. For me it is very important - from the point of view of going to the second stage of the forestry maps - that is the extension of the objections. The first phase of the forest maps is now over. We've got up-to-date forest maps. And this is very important for our country. And move on, continue with the forest maps until they are completed. And since today - to allow me - it is a Chiknamp, I would like here in the Chamber to recall a Tsiknoft five years ago at my place in Ierissos, where the MATs had been invaded. It was really a police army and it had chewed the whole village not by baking, but by tobacco and tear gas. I just wish that these days, such times that the Greek people will never live again and nowhere else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, Mrs. Iglezi. Mr Stylus has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u367	Thank you very much, Mr President. I want to comment on the views of SYRIZA and the Minister. I did not hear anything positive about what has happened over the past few years, before the SYRIZA - ANEL national government came in order to get the country out of the crisis and believe and feel and be sure that something good is happening around us, without of course being able to understand, see and understand it. Let me remind you, therefore, that those who are following us are also listening to this, that the Commission 'Natural 2000' was set up in 2000. The European directives were in place since 1992 and since 1999. I would remind you that the management bodies of protected areas of NATURA were set up in 2002. And then we had the development of these management bodies. So we are talking about a new institution, young, where you and my colleagues - who want to zero everything - are saying that it takes a year to stand up to organise and assimilate local society with local bodies. For us it was and is always high in priority the environment, nature, biodiversity, environmental monitoring, security along with balanced development, along with the incentives, using the technology and knowledge that science brings, but also the evolution of life itself, to create additional wealth, always having a complex, harmonious coexistence of man with the environment. I would remind you that in 2014 the Ministry of the Environment had completed the national dialogue on the national system of protected areas, which reached a unanimous conclusion on the architecture of the system in November 2014. Unfortunately the elections have come, the "national-supporting" government of SYRIZA - ANEL, and this unanimous conclusion has never been implemented. What was that supposed to mean? What was this fact, which is very important, as well, about today's bill? In relation to the institutions and the protected areas, he said 'yes' and went on to include other protected areas. I pointed it out, too, and said so, Minister. I'm not one of those people I want to be described as a pig at accepting and seeing the positive. And besides, we don't do it as a party. He was saying something else, though. For the three hundred and fifty-seven employees in the management bodies of protected areas, the conclusion was made. I talked about them, too. And today I tell you, and I ask you, in your position, to commit yourself, Minister, that you guarantee that the existing staff will be able to continue in the eight months that you legislate with this law. Beware that experience will be taken into account and that you will see to it that existing staff move, that they continue to work for the rest of the year, even for the eight months. We have told you that we have a different understanding in general, and we have a different position for the workers as well. And I say this again, because it was said by many colleagues who spoke about the New Democracy, in relation to the workers we are opposed to eight months. Why are we against it? Why should the workers four months a year be out of work, outside the agency at this time. So a worker who is ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen years cumulatively some and fewer will have to be four months a year outside without knowing where they are and at point zero. So we have told you, Minister, and I think that you have been put forward by the workers of various technical solutions. You could join them in some operation of the NRP and be financed, paid by the Green Fund. Let me say this: we have a bill with twenty-two articles. The twelve articles concern management bodies. The rest are transitional provisions, and together with these twenty-two articles, nine other ministerial amendments have been tabled. We have the culmination of articles by this bill to have changed twice and three times. Mr President, I would like you to take this seriously and take it to the President of this House too, it is a bad legal practice. And I say to you in good faith that we voted against the bill at first, but some articles will be voted in favour of them. Some other articles, in which we find some paragraphs that are right and which we want to vote for, are along with other provisions that we disagree and have a completely different understanding. And I'm talking about provisions where they come retroactively to cover and legislate expenditure that has happened. We believe it is a pathogen of our state to retrospectively cover costs that have occurred. We should be practicing this. These expenditures have been created in 2017 on the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which is doing everything right and they are all right. I say, therefore, that most of these amendments are very much debated. There is, in fact, an example of an amendment that we had voted against here - it is the Ministry of Shipping's amendment - when this amendment came with an article in law. Not to read the law now who it is. The Minister for Maritime Affairs is now coming and is suspending for some time this amendment. So when we voted against it, we were right. Today the government understands it and is suspending it. He'll come to abolish it completely later. So we tell you not to think that everything from you is right and everything is wrong from the previous governments. It turns out here today, a train example. Mr President, I do not have the right to explain our vote on the amendments. We shall say 'yes', 'no' or 'no', shall we not?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u368	Yeah, that's right. This will be done during the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u369	That is why, in the majority of the ministerial amendments - I will say in particular - we are opposed to this forward - backwards, with this tactic.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u370	Mr Style, when we start the vote, when we get to the amendments, there will also be a vote of the New Democracy, as will all parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u371	That is why we are in place and say so clearly that everyone can hear it. And I say this so that we do not have the practice that this amendment was not voted on, 'you did not vote'. We did not vote for it when within an amendment you put ten paragraphs to which we disagree and which are paragraphs that bear pathogens of the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u372	Mr Stylianis, although it is not at present, the practice of amendments containing articles - years, anyway - is that the rapporteur, the speaker of each Parliamentary group, can express the view, the position of the party, the amendment and the whole, but also the individual articles. And at the time of the vote you can, when the whole amendment is voted on and the articles are included, say to you in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u373	I'll say two words then, but I want to make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u374	No, you will not say words then, because the vote will take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u375	A word, 'yes' or 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u376	You're done with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u377	Mr President, I think you understand this, 20 or two Articles in total. Eleven of these amendments and nine ministerial amendments. That's what he says. Let me tell you about the legal improvement that Mr. Famellos was generous in relation to the Jumerican body.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u378	Thank you. Mrs Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u379	Minister, we expect to see the amendment on what is due to forest workers. You were committed. We will insist, because they are employees. As far as the amendments on mountain shelters are concerned, the legalisation of unauthorised operators and new shelters that are not treated as necessary infrastructure for mountain tourism is ensured, but as an area of business. What does experience show? That the place they choose for the installation of the sanctuary, as well as the climbers' protection infrastructure, is always determined by the cost. We are clearly saying that we are not opposed to the existence and operation of shelters, but to the fulfilment of people's needs and the protection of the environment and not to the profitability of business groups, whatever shape or window, and also to the State's responsibility for installation and operation, which the capitalist state cannot and does not want to ensure. That is why we are voting against. As far as the residential density is concerned, we had expressed our opposition in the vote on the bill. The government now seeks to facilitate the integration of forest maps, giving local authorities more time to increase the areas to be included in so-called housing densities, that is to say the areas to be excluded from forest maps. This will continue the hostage of populaces, since the settlements extend the period of clearing of the legalization problems or not of the dwellings. Thus, some people will think that they have escaped, since there are no forests or forest land declared as land situated in their homes and they will hope for a future legitimisation, but forest maps will have large areas excluded. They will have holes which will make them virtually uncomplete, and that must concern you. We recall, of course, that the issue is also linked to ownership, since due to the presumption of ownership of the public, the nature of an area, together with the succession of the contractual ownership, may call into question the property of the areas designated as forests or forest land. Although it seems like a typical issue, the existing shops built in PASOK and New Democracy may be demolished, but they cannot be made of taverns, refreshments and others on better environmental conditions, i.e. they have environmental legitimacy. For us the criterion is the popular needs and not the profitability with an environmental hat. We express our concern, we do not prejudge things and we shall vote for the amendment. As we are voting in favour of the amendment by the Ministry of Migration Policy. He needs full-time staff recruitment. Finally, as far as the National Water Commission is concerned, this committee has never met and there have been issues. And irrigation fee and more expensive invoices etc. Now what are you doing? You're expanding it. We believe that this situation is a mockery. We're not going to vote on it. Decoratively you have it. I'm finishing up with the workers in the management bodies. You may say that the soul is the workers in the agencies, but you're firing them. That is the truth and in 2019 we do not know what will happen. "Allow me May to eat a clover"! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u380	So with Mrs Manolakos, the second cycle of rapporteurs and special speakers has been completed. Minister, we're closing with you. I think your intervention will be short. You have the floor for five minutes, Minister. I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr President. I will confine myself to clarifying a number of issues that have been raised by colleagues in order to have a good result. Ms Manolakou is right about the amendment to night-time allowances and tours of forest workers for the smuggling programme, if I am not mistaken. It requires joint processing by the General Accounting Office of the State and the Green Fund. We're committed to bringing her in and covering. But don't make any misunderstanding. Wage pay and wages are normally paid because they are made public at some time that they are late for employees to be paid. Officials are paid normally. Secondly, with regard to housing density, I should like to clarify that, firstly, it is not the truth that they are holes in the canvas of forest maps. The last post showed that it's only half a percent. So it has not been temporarily excluded huge surface. And, secondly, we have announced that there will be a law that we are already preparing for the application of forest maps to settlements. There is no doubt that the forestry maps framework will be applied everywhere. Thirdly, for the National Waters Commission, I would ask you to vote for it if the reason for your refusal is that it does not meet, because this year it has met three times, one to approve the pricing policy on the rules on costing, one to approve the plans for the management of water basins that were made by the end of December and one to approve the flood management plans. In order to be serious, we are putting in the amendment that it should meet twice and that its minutes should be public and that it should therefore be checked. If we do not vote on the amendment, the Minutes will not be public. We say that this is the real bet: public policy and control. Because these questions you put, they have answers. As far as the questions which have been raised by Mr Thraniotis are concerned, I would like to reply to him about the countryside. Vegetables are protected by the provisions of Law 3937 and can be classified as natural parks and protected landscapes or natural formations. There is the possibility of specific environmental studies and we are committed to the fact that after the law on the bodies, which we have said to end this process, we will move on to an institutional framework for the countryside, including areas such as Lesvos, Pikermi, Helm Vouraikos, Jumerkas. There are issues. We'll see. I suspect that there will be both in Lassithi and that's why they've been brought in by Mr. Thrafaniotis. To come to what I promised. The New Democracy said there are fines burdening SYRIZA's environmental policy. Let me clarify, then. Kyparissikos: The sentence to the European Court of Justice has a past. It's not about our period, it's about the complaints, too. CID: Warning 2001, conviction 2013. The EUR 48.4 million is therefore charged to the governments you participated in. Dangerous Wastes: Warning letter in 2003, conviction in 2014. Also, no fines in the period of our own governance. Let me tell you about the dangerous costs so far are 18.9 million. Biological cleansing: 24.9 million so far the fine. Warning letter in 2004, first sentence in 2006, second sentence in 2014. Triasios, in fact, will be announced next week in the 2014 fine. And I want to tell you about the fines we pay because of the unprecedented political leadership of the Ministry of the Environment. You said I was a bad guy and I criticized you. Now you're gonna listen. So in eastern Attica, because of the lack of political will of 10 million euros in October 2015 and 3.6 million every six months this government pays and is consistent in this state of bankruptcy, which you left the society and the economy of the country. But now we have no fines for the environment. We're paying yours for the broken ones. And in Thrace the European Commission's recommendation is for 16 million single and 35,000 euros a day because they built a biological cleansing without linking the citizens there. Even 30% of the citizens had not been connected. We're already at 60%. I'll announce it next week when the fine is imposed, which we believe in a semester, we'll get it back. But let's say a little bit of the truth about L.4109. Did this law say we're going to do these thirteen regional players for all of Greece? That's not what he said. It said that the twenty-eight small operators, who had only 22% of the old NATURA, would have put them into the thirteen players in the regions. So 80% would be out of control. That's what Mr. 4109 said. That is exactly what those in the regions said. Mr Stylion, in your attempt to say what has happened in your time, I have heard you say that there have been directives in 1992 and 1999. So you expect to pay tribute to why the European Commission has taken environmental directives in 1992 and 1999? Will we charge the New Democracy that the European Commission was working? If that's possible? What else are we gonna hear? [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, let me say one last thing, which is important for the workers. Our concept is to guarantee workers. We have said and will do so with all the available tools and with the support of the institutions, in order to make sound declarations and to take account of experience. We'll do it because you didn't do it all these years. Let this be clear. This is where we won't share responsibility. It's all ours, we take it, because we're going to solve the problem you've created. Do not confuse: an eight-month period will be done. There will be no quadruple gaps. You've said it several times. It won't be eight months a year. It will be an eight-month period, to go through 2019, which will have unlimited employment relationships with a proclamation. So there will be no gaps in work. I'll take that responsibility. It's our concept. And I must say, unfortunately, that the national finding from the public debate that they had made on the natural environment and delivered in 2014 was a rifle in the air, because by another law they abolished the bodies and made a lot of dialogue in order to make other bodies. That was the funnyness of that period. They had a dialogue while they had decided to dismantle the agencies. A law abolished him. I remember then the Pangalou law, if I am not mistaken, and on the other hand they held a national dialogue, which they put in the drawer, as the flood management plans put in and too much more. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an important bill for an important part of our country's policy, a part of productive reconstruction. Along with the forest maps and the recycling plan are three large areas in the environment, which we have managed and made over the past year. However, I must tell you that they are accompanied by the National Waste Plan, the National Dangerous Waste Plan, the National Waste Plan, announced yesterday, all Regional Waste Plans, all Regional Water Resources Management Plans, the Flood Management Plan. We have completed plans - which the country had not made for decades - within three years and there is now a complete environmental policy infrastructure. From now on, we will inform you of policies that will go far ahead, such as the next policy, which we will be announcing, which is the public policy on the cyclical economy. Because the environment is economic, development and work. Thank you very much for your contribution. It was essential for dialogue, and that is why an article has been amended twice and three times, because colleagues have said so - and you, and from the Potami and from the Democratic Alliance - that we have all amended and taken part in the drafting of a good bill. It belongs to the entire Greek Parliament, it belongs to the entire Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u382	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-one students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Elassona High School (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this point is adjourned at the outset, on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: 'Management of Protected Areas and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u384	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u386	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u387	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u389	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u391	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Management of Protected Areas and other provisions" was accepted in principle by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u393	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u395	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u396	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u398	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u400	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u402	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u403	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u404	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u405	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u407	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u408	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u409	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u411	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u413	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u414	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u418	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u422	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u423	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u425	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u427	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u429	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u431	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u432	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u436	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u438	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u440	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u441	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u443	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u445	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u447	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u449	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u450	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u451	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u452	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u454	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u458	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u459	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u461	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u463	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u467	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u468	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u470	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u472	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u474	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u476	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u477	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u479	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u481	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u483	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u484	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u485	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u486	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u488	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u489	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u490	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 12 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u492	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u493	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u494	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u495	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u497	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u498	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u499	Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u503	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u504	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u506	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u507	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u508	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u510	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u512	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u513	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u515	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u516	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u517	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u522	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u524	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u525	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u526	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u530	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u531	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u533	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u535	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u537	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u539	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u540	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u542	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u543	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u544	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 18 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u546	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u548	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u549	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u551	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u552	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u553	Article 18 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u557	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u562	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u564	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u566	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u567	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u569	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u571	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u573	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u574	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u575	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u576	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u578	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u579	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u580	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. We are entering the vote on the amendments. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number 1464 and a special number 171, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u582	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u583	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u584	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u585	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u588	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u589	Therefore, the amendment with a general number 1464 and a special 171 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1466 and a special number 173 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u591	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u592	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u593	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u594	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u596	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u597	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u598	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1466 and a special 173 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1468 and a special number of 175 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u600	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u603	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u605	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u607	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1468 and a special 175 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment acceptable under a general number 1470 and a special number 177 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u609	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u611	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u612	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u615	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u616	The amendment of a general number 1470 and a specialist of 177 was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1471 and a special number of 178?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u619	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u620	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u621	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u623	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u624	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u625	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1471 and a special 178 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1472 and a special number of 179 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u630	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u632	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u634	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1472 and a special 179 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1473 and a specialist of 180 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u635	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u638	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u639	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u643	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1473 and a specialist of 180 has been accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1469 and a special number 176 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u645	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u648	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u650	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u651	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u652	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1469 and a specialist of 176 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u654	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u656	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u657	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u659	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u661	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. The Law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Management of Protected Areas and Other Provisions" was therefore accepted in principle and in articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u663	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u665	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u666	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u668	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u669	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u670	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Management of Protected Areas and Other Provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u671	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u672	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Tuesday 5 December 2017, Wednesday 6 December 2017, Thursday 7 December 2017 and Friday 8 December 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u673	The minutes of Tuesday 5 December 2017, Wednesday 6 December 2017, Thursday 7 December 2017 and Friday 8 December 2017 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-08-S1-commons.u674	With the consent of the House at 20.10 p.m. the sitting is closed tomorrow, Friday, February 9, 2018 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical questions.
